ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 23 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (11:06 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u4	The next item is: "Communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 28 and 29 June 2016 and subsequent discussion" I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Dr Renzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been asked to be as brief as possible, given the dynamics of parliamentary work today, and therefore to limit the government's communications to a minimum, in order to listen at least partially to the parliamentary debate, in view of the fact that the Chamber meeting is scheduled in less than an hour, by virtue of this afternoon's meeting in Berlin with the leaders of Germany and France. So I will try to be as brief as possible, counting on your understanding of the synthesis of the reflection that I am going to offer you. Very clearly we are faced with a historical affair. Those who try today to minimize or exploit what happened would make an obvious political mistake. The British vote certainly has characteristics of some interest in British sociological and political analysis, but it is a vote that weighs like a boulder in European history and as such should be considered. It had already happened forty-one years ago, in 1975, but the result had been different. If, therefore, today, in spite of a large part of the forecasts and - it should be emphasized - with an extraordinary turnout, the British people have spoken, we can do anything but pretend nothing. If the principle is passed that the people vote and elsewhere try to "put a piece" on what the people have decided, it undermines the very idea of democratic play. Therefore, this awareness is needed, regardless of individual opinions. That seems to me to be the first point. I am not here in the debate on the modalities of Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union and the rules of the game, because they are dynamics that we will face at European level. For our part, I believe that we can say, like Italy, that anything can do Europe except now open a one-year debate on procedures, after having spent a year discussing the negotiations. If everything is negotiated with regard to procedures, we lose sight not only of the message coming from the British vote, but also of the idea of Europe itself. The first issue, then, is that something huge has happened. Ex malo bonum, they said the Latins. I think that must be our spirit. The reasons why we have criticized the European institutions from within, trying to make our contribution to change things, are paradoxically made stronger than ever by the British popular expression. And not only because of the dynamics of that vote, on which there is no time to insist although it would be very interesting to do so. I am referring in particular to the link between the areas that voted for the leave and the crisis of traditional manufacturing. I think it is a very interesting reading track because where there are more hardships and difficulties of the international manufacturing sector, there has been a stronger consensus for the leave. As if Europe had become, sometimes even beyond its own responsibilities, the reference point of all the discontented. This is something on which we will have to reason and discuss in the coming months. The central point, however, is that if in recent months we have asked for a Europe that is more social, that has at heart immigration with an all-inclusive look, that cares about the Erasmus generation, and at the same time is able to reassure those who belong to another generation, if we have done these battles, we have done them not because we wanted to affirm the interest of Italy - which, of course, we consider a value because the national interest is worth, it is not worthless in the European political debate - but because we thought it was the European, continental interest and not just the interest of our country. So, in my opinion, what opens tomorrow is a European summit, which I fear will not be the last to deal with these issues, but which will have to focus on relaunching Europe, not only on the UK's exit procedures. It will need to focus on how to reset a strategy, technological innovation, crafts and vital worlds that can once again be made protagonist by a strategy of technological innovation that is not against tradition, but in support of tradition. It must, in my view, be the time when we should learn from what has happened to bring Europe back to its strong identity. It is Europe that fights a battle of social justice and not just a battle of bureaucratic procedures. From this point of view, Italy is ready to play its part. We have used the expression 'home' because it is not just a physical place; for us Europe is our home. I respect those in this House, as in the House, who have always expressed different positions. It's a sincere respect that I want to stick to the record. In the sense that in this House there are Italian and European political families who have different opinions, have never sent them to say, they have always had the courage of consistency: there are those who are with the Le Pen, those with Farage and those with traditional families. We must have the strength and intelligence to acknowledge that this can be a moment of restart if we put at the centre the values that have made our home great. The house is not only a physical place, but a place of feelings and ideas. That is why we said to start again from Ventotene and from the formation of young people and that is why we asked to have a global look that was not just a look at the daily horizon, but at the long term. What is lacking today, however, is, in my opinion, an awareness of the gravity of the situation. I would not like - and I believe that this will be the line in which we will start the debate - to think of pretending nothing or that we can simply imagine a very, very long way of thinking, perhaps awaiting a new referendum. This is all about the United Kingdom; it is a position that we respect and what the British will decide will be fully respected by us. But what Europe has to do today is to move, because if we are another year waiting for us to come back to the same rules that we have been discussing over the past year, we lose our date with the challenges and priorities of our time. Look - and I start quickly to conclude - what is happening in these hours in Europe and outside: there are some countries, I think of Spain, which are back to vote and for the second time in six months they do not have a governable country. It makes us think that at the beginning of this legislature - we have already said so in the Senate - we used the Spanish system as a positive benchmark, because until now it had given governments and clear governability; we had not invented it when we discussed it, it was a fact. Today the Spanish system, for the second time in six months, is at the crossroads: to create a coalition of at least three of the four parties, from what you see, because two might not be enough, or to condemn themselves to the third elections within a year. When you go to vote twice in a row in six months what happens? The results do not change much, but the participation yes, the turnout yes, because the feeling of confidence in the democratic game is lacking. Think about what is happening - we have discussed for a long time in the judgment of the local elections - in the outskirts. Well, let's talk about the European outskirts: there is the most exposed front of the great issue of international and national security. And we must have the courage to say that it is not rejecting the idea of Europe that we will have more security, but exactly the opposite: that seventy years of peace are there to prove that Europe is strong if it is together, if it is united. But then cooperation must be true: on the issues of security, defence, internal factors. Third and final point. Look at what is happening outside Europe. Today - I believe it will be a matter of hours - there will be the official announcement of the agreement between Israel and Turkey. Each of you can have your own opinions; I have just discussed this with Prime Minister Bibi Netanyahu. The agreement between Israel and Turkey is a very important signal, especially by thinking about what has happened over the last ten years in this geographical area. Think about what's going on outside our borders. We have discussed Russia and Africa several times. The European Council should have focused on the great issue of migration compact, brought by Italy to finally give a long-term strategy on Africa and not just a set of individual reactions. The world outside is changing at an impressive speed. Let me say that what has happened in the United Kingdom can be the biggest opportunity for Europe, if we stop playing defensive and if we try to give our continent the chance of a new start. For that to happen, common sense and balance are needed. Italy will play its part, in all the formats that will become necessary. We have always said that Italy's task is to help, to build bridges and not walls. That is why we have accepted the invitation to be part of the three-way table that will be discussed in Berlin today, with a new one. This is an unprecedented fact and we have joined because we think that this can be of help, not because we are looking for a role. We believe that this can also help our French and German friends. But next to that, we must be clear about the direction. The direction cannot be to pretend nothing and to minimize. The British people voted. The vote is valid, and this vote requires us to move on to Europe. Europe must be the one that cares a little bit more about social issues and a little less about bureaucratic issues. And next to this there must be a Europe where traditional families, who have always said yes to Europe, even coming from different stories and experiences, find in this passage the grit, lucidity and intelligence to understand that it is the time of responsibility and not improvisation; it is the time when to come back to believe in a Europe capable of raising hopes and not only generating fears. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and AL-A groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u6	I say that any further motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u7	Mr President, was Brexit an unnecessary exercise in democracy of a people who exchanged their memories with its future? Or, instead, as someone has dared to say, the ignorant people have expressed themselves and, since they are ignorant, can they not decide on complex matters? In Italy this was already said in the days of the ox people, defined by a sixty-eighty culture that did not accept the will of the majority. Therefore, the British answer us once again with the famous phrase of Churchill, that for which democracy is the worst instrument of government, except for all the others that we have verified. Or, on the other hand, it is rather a check to Queen Europe by a people who understand themselves as queens and loves them. A people who haven't lost a war in hundreds of years. The most humiliating slap, in our opinion, at an establishment, the European one, which has devoured European democracies. He was able to do so with Greece at the time of Grexit; he was able to do so with Italy, overthrowing a democratically elected government with alchemies of governments never elected by the people. Could he do that, in your opinion, with the oldest democracy in the world? No, especially because today we are struggling with the drama of Brexit, exactly as we were prisoners of the drama of the spread in 2011 with Grexit. The Member States run at divergent speeds, and this applies not only to the eurozone, not only to the economy. But could he teach the British a gentleman who, with his famous phrase "out is out" on the eve of the vote, gave us this beautiful result? He, the head of a Grand Duchy as big as an average Italian Province, who makes the evasion or, better, tax avoidance, that offers the world the instrument of his income and his country? Is it Cameron's fault, however, that he promptly resigned? Or Juncker, who gave the final football to a Europe called into question for the many reasons you have also mentioned? I am thinking, for example, of the issue of migrants, with the management of flows and distribution quotas within a constantly negative demographic trend, with a worrying scissor between new births and new landings, which is likely to create a dangerous equation. The breakdown between the Community institutions and the institutions within the States is a common perception, as is this never-ending economic crisis, the causes and mechanisms of which are the affairs of the central governments of the banks and of the Community government, but whose repercussions and restrictions are common dividend applied mainly to the national peoples. It is clear that we cannot live with the mechanisms of high finance that oscillates between deregulation and overregulation, creating devastating bureaucratic short-circuits for the economy. But there is also a need for reform of the Dublin regulation on immigration, which has been discussed for a long time and by countless European Councils. Not to mention unemployment and a common fight against terrorism, just to mention a few of the big chapters. Here's what's behind Brexit: much more than a dispute about the economic model and an angry reaction, as some have called it. There is a symptom of a necessary and urgent change of pace that is imposed. The recipe is there and goes first and foremost from the renegotiation of all the treaties and all the rules. Changing Europe, from within, but really changing it. To pass, to say it with a short and clear formula, from constraints to construction. From all those impositions that engulf the states to the respect of parameters and Diktat that do nothing but annihilate the economic vitality and internal markets at national borders, from a punitive approach made of sanctions and warnings, to a Europe that can instead facilitate autonomy and self-determination, stimulate growth and development, support companies and move investments. That is where we must start from: from that vote of the young British, opposed to their fathers, which requires us to take up the path that the founders of Europe defined not as easy, nor as safe, but as it must be traveled and that it will be: this was the conclusion of the authors of the Ventotene Manifesto, which you also mentioned, Mr President. Perhaps more than making another manifesto would be enough to start right there. Since then Europe has asked for it, Europe has to rebuild Europe, but can its government do it with a few numbers, with little electoral consensus? Can you do that, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, who has not even been able to use the British Government's strong and incisive action in favour of Italy during the whole Brexit negotiations? Was it better to team up with those who called into question the European mechanisms for a new Europe, or to stand by to be given some flexibility on the deficit for electoral tips and not for structural investments needed by the country? [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] Did you have the intuition that in order to save Europe it was necessary to apply to all the Member States what had been recognized in the United Kingdom? And he will be able to oppose the prospect of a single European finance minister (that is all we need!{\cHFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFF}? Or will we continue to write European directives that citizens will read as German directives by following Germany's imposed model, including the French? Or will you make the entire country, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the end that you have made Italian banks, but above all its savers, those savers who are gabbed not so much by the crisis, but by a stammering government in front of the European Union? I am afraid not, Mr President, that you will succeed, and as I am afraid of the Italians, to whom this Government tries to say: After me the flood. Be careful, because Italians are already responding that the flood is probably just this Government. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u8	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u9	Mr President, we have listened carefully to the words of the President-in-Office of the Council and to the issues that will be dealt with in Berlin these days. We would have liked to hear, Mr President-in-Office, also something about what you are going to say tomorrow and the day after tomorrow in Brussels, because we know that the subject on the agenda will not only be the referendum and Brexit. We know that we are going to talk about immigration, economic policies and, consequently, we are going to refer to a forthcoming meeting of information on what you have said. But, alas, President, time is tyrant. We have heard from the President-in-Office of the Council words such as 'the people who voted','sovereignty' and'respect for the popular vote'. The problem is that we respect the British popular vote but - alas - we do not allow the Italians to decide like the British and to indicate whether or not they want to stay in Europe and especially whether they want to stay close or not in this crazy snare that is the euro. So let the vote of others well come but our vote, the vote of our fellow citizens is not even taken into consideration, as if we were in a monarchy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Also because, Mr President, the Euro-barometer society, which analyses the pulse of European citizens, tells us very clearly, in the last survey, that only 49% of Italians are in favour of the euro and therefore we are the European nation with the lowest index. We would have liked to understand, and to understand together, what our fellow citizens think. France, Italy and Germany, today, meet to speak and make an analysis, but let them agree, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, because the statements made by your colleagues leave me puzzled. Mr Hollande, your colleague, says that France and Germany will take all initiatives. There's no talk of her. Last night, the German television news, the Tagesschau, ironized or assumed that his haste and desire to participate served to address the problems on the internal front and therefore the fact that becoming great in Europe served to solve problems on the internal front. So your interlocutors (not us, not Farage and not Mrs Le Pen, your interlocutors - I repeat - already question the authority of your presence in Europe. Alas, if these are the premises, let's see what happens. In the next few days you will also be discussing the issue of immigration, one of the issues that has made the leave front strong in Europe because Europe is not considered by the British citizens to be an interlocutor in the fight against immigration. Let us remember, President, Frontex, Safe Sea, Euformed, all initiatives of your Europe, of your Europe that are only intended to be a collector and ferry of migrants. What was the point of these missions, Mr. President? Nothing. These missions didn't do any good. Only European citizens have been used to become increasingly aware of the fact that Europe is not doing anything on the subject of immigration because Europol says that human traffickers gained between EUR 5 billion and EUR 6 billion in 2015 as a result of this traffic. Consequently, what is Europe doing and what is Italy doing? They're not doing anything. And Italy first on all. Therefore, I would ask you to participate in the summit by showing greater strength. It is not making deterrent because in the African countries our Navy is seen a bit like a ferry: billions and billions of euros of ships of the Navy military, Minister Pinotti, are used like the MSC or like the Coast Cruises. Let's use them to be a ferry! We have no military credibility, even in this case at world level: we spend EUR 1.27 billion on missions abroad, we send our targets to Iraq and Afghanistan but we do not know what to do. All for what? Trying to repel the invasion? How do we do that? We have put forward a proposal: the rejections assisted under the auspices of the UN. It is true that Europe exists, Mr President, but then it is the UN that should help us. The problem is that it is the same UN that supports the Libyan Government that says that never and never will return immigrants. I don't have much time, so I'll be quick. We ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to talk about work and all the problems facing European citizens, but especially Italian citizens. We also ask you, since you were in St Petersburg a few days ago and you spoke with President Putin, to go to Europe and to ensure that Russia is not the only problem of international security, because that is what NATO is saying at the moment. We are calling for sanctions on Russia to be lifted; we are calling for our companies to start working with Russia again; we are calling for them to become partners in that state. Europe is perhaps his home and that part of the Italians who regard it as Europe; but this Europe is not my home. I'm not one of the young people who made Erasmus, but I'm one of those young people who over the years Ninety was Interrail, so Europe knows it well. After ten Interrails I can tell you that I do not like this Europe: I preferred the Europe of nations and peoples, rather than this Europe of its friends banks and its friends strong powers [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u10	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tremonti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u11	Mr President, Senators, the events of these days demonstrate to us, in a dramatic way, the centrality of the European issue. Of course, Europe has already - and to a large extent - entered our lives. 80% of Italian domestic legislation, for example, is already European. We go from the most important subjects (think, for example, the matter of saving) to the most extravagant ones. As an indication, two months ago, a Community law was passed here, dealing with basil, rosemary, sage and truffles. But, of course, the centrality of the European issue emerges today, in absolute and dramatic form, with the UK leaving the European Union. In the face of the crisis, you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, said that your vision, your action and, above all, your new Constitution are meant to defend us. Let us doubt that, especially the latter. On the European quadrant, the new Constitution is not, in fact, and will not be at all, a protective shield, but rather an additional danger. In history, in the world, there is no case of a Chamber, which would be the new Senate, with local origin but with international competence and, in particular, with competence projected on a strategic and decisive matter as, above all, today is the European one. It is a matter on which, both in order to remain in the Union and in order to get out of it, however, the political axis of all the European States will rotate and rotate from here on. The new Italian Constitution would be bad in normal times, but it will be a tragic mistake in the Iron Time that is coming. Articles 55 and 70 refer to the European Union four times, in order to give the new Senate shared and equal legislative competence, in an exclusive case, in relation to Italy's relations with the European Union. Finally, in Article 87, it is stipulated that the President of the Republic: ratification of the Treaties relating to Italy's membership of the Union, subject to the authorization of the Chambers, that is, of both Chambers. In this way we will have eighteen chance, part-time mayors, seven fathers of the Homeland fixed-term and about seventy regional councillors, heterogeneous addendos that will have competence on the relationship of Italy with Europe and therefore competence on our destiny. Perhaps they will be less numerous politicians, but much more powerful than before in a group that, by the way, by the way, will fatally be different from that which forms the political majority of the House, increasingly heterogeneous, random, erratic, endowed with a growing power of vote, veto and blackmail. More than two years ago, Mr President, you came to this House for the first time, announcing yourself as the last President to ask the Senate for confidence. Since October he may be right to regret it by having to go to his new Senate, a viscous and swampy Senate, to ask for more and more decisive votes for the fate of the country, but without being able to impose trust. To get the grades, he's gonna have to go in the company of fortune tellers, fortune tellers, or worse. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Bignami and Rizzotti.]] Therefore, seriously we must note that bicameralism has not been abolished at all, but has been concentrated, distorted: a suicidal bicameralism. A constitution, his, that will not bring the end of the confusion, but rather an endless confusion. Note by the way that those who sow referendums do not necessarily collect plebiscites. The United Kingdom accident is the accident of the future: fortunately, it has occurred even before the Constitution came into operation. We could say that it was no one's fault but on this, at least for once, in the interest of the country, listen to us! Having said that, and if we are allowed to do so, we are still looking at Europe and the State of the Union from this old Senate. At other times, even in this House, we have warned about the arrival of a general crisis in Europe. We have done this by noting that over the last twenty years in Europe and Europe four main factors of crisis have gradually become more intense - but they have been celebrated, completely ignoring the dark side - in sequence: enlargement; globalisation; the euro; the absence in the Treaties of the hypothesis that a crisis could come. As if good were the rule and evil instead the impossible. And then again the migrations and the destruction of the work caused by the digital revolution. However, in the European house of Brussels, many sleepwalkers continue to believe that, all things considered, they still have the best possible worlds; that there have been no errors or faults on their part, if anything only errors or faults on the part of the peoples; still dominant is the idea that it is the rulers who can choose the peoples and not the peoples who choose the rulers. Everything has actually changed and we cannot continue to believe that it is enough to do what is being done: the launch of bans and exorcisms, the demonization of the peoples, condemned as authors of inadmissible secessions of the plebe; the updating of the family photos, if anything only with some blanching; the drafting of declarations and joint announcements of commitment, which actually show more weakness than strength; the invention of new types of directors, for example, the last would be done as a troika. To those who consider it a success to enter, it must be remembered that the right side of history is no longer at the top, but at the base. It is increasingly clear that we cannot manage phenomena so strong and so new with formulas that they are as old as they are wrong. Therefore, we have three main hypotheses: the first, to continue to believe that it can still hold a Union over the States; a Union that claims to have - and still to retain - power without responsibility above, and without democracy below: free everyone to speak and vote on everything, on everything, except Europe! Second scenario: to return to isolated states, masters of their past, but fatally destined to be dominated by global forces that have already been seen to be even worse than this Europe. It cannot be ruled out that this step should be reached, but, before that happens, we have a political and historical duty, the duty to try to return to the creative spirit of Europe, as it was in the original ideals and then it was betrayed, subverting the fundamental constitutional rule of subsidiarity in the relationship between the States and the European Union. I note that President Berlusconi has spoken very wisely on this essential point in recent days. Third scenario: not a Union without States, not States without Union, but replacing the old Treaties with new articles of confederation. To do so from the national states, which are no longer, as half a century ago, dangerous incubators of wars, but providential containers of what remains of democracy. On this basis, to rewrite the former novo Treaties, defining what can be better done above, starting, for example, from defence, but leaving under everything else, as it is precisely in the logic and principle of subsidiarity. The people are wiser than Brussels in writing the laws intended to govern their lives in freedom and prosperity, without any need for the dominant European legal fundamentalism. In conclusion, between insisting on a failed utopia and therefore without a future or returning to a past perhaps even this without a future, it is necessary instead to try, at least for one last time, to make order prevail over disorder and reason over madness. It is in fact the national states and their peoples who, confederated in freedom and democracy, still have the honour and the burden of raising the flag of Western civilization in Europe today. This is the only way to open the way to a future that is better than the present: a future that has to be better for us and for our children. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senator Bignami. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u12	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u13	Mr President, the referendum in Britain was a shock to Europe, but the imbalances in the Union would have remained intact even if the British rejected the Eurosceptic push. Now we have to move forward and I believe, President, that it is not a heresy to define our autumn referendum on constitutional reform as a crucial step of the British one, not only in an Italian key, with the announced "Renzit" in case of victory of the no, but also and above all because a defeat of the reforms would make us make a huge leap backwards on the credibility front in the European Union. It will therefore be a referendum on the stability of Italy, in the midst of the perfect storm in which Europe is located, between increasing migratory flows, demographic crisis, risk of terrorism, market instability, bank fragility, debt uncertainty and stalemate economy, with the consequent anti-system drives. Therefore, the rejection of a reform that has been expected for decades would open up a very serious political crisis, a parliament delegitimized by the citizens should express itself as a government and it would be difficult even to return to the polls without a coherent electoral law. Italy has regained credit in Europe and markets by promising and implementing structural reforms. If the mother of all the reforms were not passed, almost certainly a very serious financial crisis would be added to the political crisis. The flexibility given would be withdrawn and the markets would do the rest, with the spectrum of the troika that would come back dramatically real. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you said that Europe is our home and that it is true, but it is currently a house on fire, and in this situation Italy cannot afford to give free rein to adventures, the worst of all, to the political warriors of windmills. It is an awareness that should unite all the forces that are recognized in the major parties that founded the European Union. The inescapable question, however, is whether before Britain came out of Europe it was Europe that came out of itself, betraying with financial and bureaucratic drift what for half a century had guaranteed peace and prosperity. We are now at a crucial crossroads and the options are essentially two: more integration to the Schäuble, and therefore more financial discipline, or more concessions in the areas of balance sheets, tax and banks. On this front, it is right to recognise that Italy has partly succeeded in changing towards the Union, pushing it from the one-way rigour of Germany to the prevailing option of growth. But from the fiscal compact to the bail in, the damage has already been largely done. We need a compromise between the two options, but starting from the fact that in this long crisis Germany has taken too many privileges to the detriment of all the others, far beyond the dictates of the first Maastricht Treaty, which did not include plans to return to forced stages. The history of these years has already shown that in a monetary union, the surplus of a country produces more damage than the excess deficit of other economies and that abdicating to the control of external borders cannot but create confusion, insecurity and rejection in large sections of the population. On this last point, it must be said that the immigration dossier has been and is a total failure and it is useless to argue that immigration from an Italian problem has become a European problem, because it is not true. The European Commission has failed to direct Member States towards a common migration policy, thus potentially calling into question both the validity of Schengen and the implementation of the common European asylum system which once and for all goes beyond the Dublin Regulation. Italy has done its duty by saving thousands of lives in the Mediterranean, but Europe has left us alone: we have at least the courage to say so without claiming successes that public opinion does not see and does not hear. On this, too, the government's ability to make itself felt authoritatively in Europe will depend on the outcome of the crucial referendum in October. [[Applause from the AL-A Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u14	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u15	Mr President, I have to say quite frankly that we would have expected President Renzi to give clearer indications of the position that our country will take tomorrow, at the European summit and also at the restricted summit in Berlin this afternoon, because we must be aware of a serious analysis of the vote in Britain. I say this very clearly here: we do not believe that some of the readings that have been given, such as that of the generational conflict, are absolutely convincing, and the data comfort us in this regard. The vote on Brexit reiterates once again the already broad signs that there had been in various other parts of Europe: I am thinking only of what happened in Austria, where a President of the xenophobic Republic was not elected. This vote clearly reaffirms the distrust of millions of European citizens of European policies, of rigour and austerity, which becomes a real popular rage of those who feel excluded, of the suburbs, of our cities and of the British ones, and of those who feel the negative weight of Europe these years. It was therefore a vote against these policies and also a clear vote against the elites, in a situation in which the economic crisis was not given adequate answers, which were also necessary; in a social situation that in the United Kingdom (but this applies a bit to all European countries and also to ours) is characterized by the devaluation of labour, unemployment, underemployment, social exclusion and the actual destruction (which already began there by Thatcher) of the middle class, therefore one of the factors that historically represented an element of stability in all our countries. There is not only distrust of European policies, but also, in general, of policy as a means of changing one's life, because it is believed that, in the face of the problems of the citizens affected by the crisis, the answers to the lack of work, protection and perspective for themselves and for their children, not only there have not been, but in some cases they have aggravated the situation. From this deep discomfort we must start again. I say this even if Renzi does not listen, as is his costume, and I am very sorry: at this moment it is not enough to use the instruments of rhetoric again. All of us are linked to the Ventotene Manifesto and to the values of Europe, but today it is no longer enough, it is not enough just to make this call. Today we are in a serious crisis and a radical change of course is therefore absolutely necessary, otherwise this is the de profundis of Europe. We have seen Europe in action on immigration. What was your answer? For years it was pretended that the problem was only Italian and in the end there was a response, very partial and difficult, while the immediate response were insufficient external walls and social policies inside, resulting in great social discomfort. In this way the xenophobic and nationalist pressures are being pushed forward. In order to change course today, we call on our Government to urge the European Council to put forward clear and precise proposals. You cannot be content with being invited into the good living room, because the photo that portrays Renzi, Merkel and Hollande together risks being a faded postcard that will have no effect on what is absolutely necessary to change. In this respect, we must not accept that the German model, which has been imposed as a rule on the whole of Europe from an economic and social point of view, is one of the issues that we must have the sense of responsibility to deal with once and for all. Even the difference in positions between Germany and other countries in the face of the outcome of the referendum on the so-called Brexit says a lot about a country - Germany - that even in the most difficult times aims to defend its own interests and certainly not those of other European countries. Mr President, another attitude that has been felt in recent days and that must be avoided is contempt for the vote of the citizens. The contempt for the referendum in Greece is the same as we have seen in recent days. This is an absolutely wrong and negative attitude that alienates citizens even further from Europe. We must immediately avoid the destabilizing effects of the bail in and we therefore call for a rapid moratorium on the application of the bail in and for a firm and definitive approach to the revision of the fiscal compact. All our policies in that area of national sovereignty that had remained, in the end they always went in that direction. In the same way, I urge you to be very aware of what is happening with reference to the Treaties. I am thinking of TTIP, which will aggravate the social and economic situation of all European countries, including ours, and it is not conceivable that even on this subject there is no possibility for national parliaments to express themselves. The same concern is expressed about the CETA, a treaty between the European Union and Canada, which does not even want to be ratified by national parliaments. These are the issues to be addressed, which we have set out in the resolution that we have tabled in a dry way, although we could talk about it for a long time. If it really is not just rhetoric, but the will to change course, I am wary of using the referendum on a constitutional reform that has gone from promoting as an anti-caste measure to a stabilisation factor. I say this quietly to the President-in-Office of the Council: we know that that reform is also part of what Europe has asked and imposed, but it goes in exactly the opposite direction to what the excluded, those who suffer and all the suburbs of Europe have told us in the referendum on Brexit and will continue to tell us. This is not the Europe they want: they want not this stabilisation, but the promises they had made, of a Europe that should have represented an area not only of peace, democracy and rights, but also of social welfare. All this has been betrayed. If you want to use the referendum to say that, you are on the wrong path. And you will see that, because when citizens vote, as you see, they give clear and precise signals. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u16	Senator Sacconi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this hairpin of history, events are concentrated which all contribute to feeding processes of disintegration in communities between nations and nations themselves. Those who perceive themselves as losers in the new globalized dimension think they are at the mercy of a world without guidance, hope for the breakup of old settlements, because they believe they have nothing more to lose than their chains, and seek refuge in the reconstruction of a self-sufficient (or almost such) national sovereignty. The President-in-Office of the Council has opposed these processes to a phase of responsibility and reform in Europe, to which the two traditional political families should contribute in the first place, starting from the values deposited by the common history; values which were indeed denied in the Treaties, in the name of that cultural relativism that has made us all more fragile. But the responsible construction of a better European future cannot be without the national dimension and the recomposition in it of at least part of the many processes of disintegration. All the more so because the new Europe can reasonably be defined on the sole basis that it seems sustainable in the state, the confederal one. In short, it is time, even in Italy, for a phase of republican responsibility, that first of all commits the Government to initiatives of openness towards all oppositions, so that at least the fundamental profiles of the new institutional structures inside and in Europe can be shared, so that everyone can feel at ease and safer under the roof of his sovereign state and a limited European confederation. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you had a parliamentary majority in support of your Government and a larger majority in support of constitutional reform. The second should of course have shared the choice of the first office of the State and the electoral law. The game of variable majorities, which you have preferred, has been resolved in a profound division not only with respect to public policies, but also with respect to the same rules as the democratic game. There was then recently an opportunity to give a pragmatic and shared response to the demand for certain rights on the part of the stable homo and heterosexual cohabitations, but, as is well known, an ideological solution was preferred in favour of the artificial family, tearing the nation about what in terms of principle and concrete experience more formed it. Do not insist on this path and open yourself to the patient seeking a shared basis on the great chapters of the new Europe, so as to obtain at the negotiating tables that listening that deserves the authentic leaders, those who know how to be inclusive. I am thinking in particular of the relationship between national sovereignty and European powers, the terms of fiscal and banking union, security policies for the management of migratory pressure and the instability that generates it. But how to continue in the meantime along the path leading to a tearing referendary deadline? It would not be impossible to bring the positions on the same constitutional law closer together if a sincere confrontation were to be opened on electoral reform, which is a direct complement to it, and on the laws of implementation which will have to regulate the new counterweights to the simplification and concentration of democratic power. The experience of these months has taught that internal growth itself, which is conditioned by the depression of global trade, is not only generated by policies of encouragement, although necessary, of foreign investment or better regulation on the more structured enterprises. A new season of Italian development can only be produced from a widespread mobilization of our community, from that popular and family capitalism that in services or manufacturing transformed by digital technologies can still generate work and wealth. However, nothing more than national cohesion, feeling part of a common destiny, can give rise to this mobilization. Be she first inclusive and open to listening and perhaps, instead of the vicious circle that is exalting everything that divides us, the virtuous circle that makes us recognize what unites us will open. For the good of all, especially of the weakest. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like you to keep in the minutes the fact that this day has been quite complicated from the organisational point of view and, at the moment, we do not even know who will answer us in this House. It's probably undersecretary Gozi; let's hope so. President Renzi began his speech by saying that a boulder fell on Europe. I would like to ask whether this boulder is not falling down or has not already fallen down on Italy as well. I say this because President Renzi has tried to defend himself several times, saying, for example, that the past local elections were a local fact and could not have reflected on the central government. Similarly, this morning he told us that the outcome of the referendum in the United Kingdom is a global phenomenon which probably will not affect the Italian Government either. I think, then, that perhaps not even the constitutional referendum that will take place in October, November or December - it will depend on your reasons for convenience - and that you say should not be personalized on the figure of President Renzi, will have repercussions on the government. I would then like to know what really has repercussions on this Government, because judging by your statements nothing has an effect on the Italian Government. In fact, what has happened in the past has never had an effect on the Renzi Government and I would like to give a few examples: Mafia Capitale has not caused a single shock on the Renzi government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Pleasuring of the amendments to use and consumption of the oil lobby did not affect the Government; having two Italian deaths in Libya had no repercussions on the Government; a young Italian massacred in Egypt has no repercussions on the Government; encouraging the banks and sending Italian savers to the pavement does not have an effect on this Government. So I ask myself: what do you think has a direct effect on this Government? Or are you in a delusion of omnipotence? In fact, both the local elections and the vote in the United Kingdom have direct effects on our government and I explain why. Firstly, the facts do not prove you right, as shown by both the graph of the results of the British vote and the graph of the results of the local elections, for example, in Rome. The two maps are absolutely similar; they speak of different peoples, but the result is simply the same, because it speaks of the effects of your policies. You are turning us against each other; men against women, peripheries against center, privilege against sacrifice. This is the policy that you are implementing, and it is the policy that has led you absolutely to failure. There are many points in common between Renzi and Cameron. One of all: Cameron was overwhelmed by a referendum he himself wanted and, probably, it will also be the outcome of the referendum that you yourselves are calling out loud. The failure is also that what you, the European tyrants, are proposing is a European Union with a substantial financial draw: cuts in public services, cuts in local authorities and job security, but above all, that the suffering budgets of banks be paid back, stifling the industrial fabric of Italian small and medium-sized enterprises. All this without questioning, even once, the Treaties, which have never been discussed and ratified by the Italian citizens. How will this Government, with a GDP less than expected, comply with its promises in 2017 and prevent the release of safeguard clauses, with the further increase of VAT? It will be impossible, if not approving other cuts, that will affect the live meat of the Italians. This is your plan, and this is what constitutional reforms are for: to turn you into Italy's failing prosecutors. Austerity, unsustainable treaties, unemployment and stagnation. This is the European Union that you have accepted since you were in the government, despite pretending to fight with the knife between your teeth. You, Mr Renzi, did not get a penny of what the United Kingdom will get thanks to the referendum requested by the Prime Minister, and that you had already partly obtained before the referendum because we are talking about a country, the United Kingdom, which already did not have the euro and did not respect treaties such as the fiscal compact. I conclude by suggesting two main mandates for this afternoon. The first: British citizens have already spoken and have chosen, so Italy should support this democratic decision and support the decisions taken by the British people. Unfortunately, you and this Government do not believe in democracy and the decisions of the people, but believe only in yourselves. And then a second mandate: you said that we must ensure that Europe is our home. This afternoon, while he will be in Europe snacking with other European tyrants, he should tell the other European tyrants that if home is to be, the Italians want the keys to that house. Because there are only two possibilities where a person is in a house and has no keys: either he is a teenager or they kidnapped him. As President Renzi seems to me to come in and out very easily from all the doors, the first case is probably true. I say to you, then: stop being a teenager, go to Europe and protect the interests of Italian citizens, of all Italian citizens, not only of those who pay for election campaigns. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tronti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u20	Mr President, members of the Government, there is no doubt that 23 June marks a symbolic date for the history of Europe; it is a political act, so to be read, and as such it calls for a political response. Among the many difficulties it causes, we must also look, as the President-in-Office of the Council has said, for the opportunities and opportunities it presents. Meanwhile, for the immediate sake, what has happened rebalances the hierarchy of problems that is urgent to address. It allows us, for example, here today to get away for a moment from the fake drama of the change of residence of some mayor, to put us before the real great challenges that citizens and peoples are called to face. A brief mention of a huge problem, which we cannot discuss here, but to which a great deal of intense political thought should be devoted. Precisely, citizens and peoples. A kind of discrasia has been created, a contradiction between these two dimensions of public life, unbearable for a democratic system. Citizenship is not recognized in nationality, it tends to lag behind in localistic, particularistic solutions, let's say even privatistic. The risk of the domino effect does not concern so much the possible exit of other countries, although present, but within some countries the resumption of autonomous demands. The vote is divided by English, Irish, Scottish, Welsh and, perhaps, Londoners. There are objective conditions for this: there is the phenomenon of mass immigration that affects the growing social discomfort caused by the economic crisis and creates different landings, which bring out a state of malaise, also of nature and political substance. Here lies the problem of Europe. How do you preach supranationality at a time when you see a retreat of opinion beyond the same nation? For the idea that I have made politics, in these cases it is not necessary to pursue the processes, not simply represent them, but oppose them, until they are overturned. This is what distinguishes a great political force, subjectively armed with a project, with real responsibility as a Government that looks, as has been said, not at the next elections but at the next generations, and distinguishes it from small minority formations, whose only program is to succeed on a contingency perhaps, favorable. I also think that there are the vital and essential needs of people (work, immigration, security), who have to go ahead with everything, but who must themselves already be framed in a project to relaunch political unity. To show, and to demonstrate, that common economic growth is facilitated by the creation of a European people by the citizens of the nations. More than European citizens, therefore, people of Europe. This economy of common growth, on the model of a social market economy, long forgotten, is the point where socialism seeks to mediate and comes to mediate, between real economy on the one hand and financial markets on the other. The judgment issued on 23 June states: not the fault of the masses, but the failure of the elites. The ideal that the age of the founders of Europe had put on the agenda after the tragedies of the twentieth century was consumed until it died. He called them, these personalities, our President Napolitano in introducing some of his speeches on the subject. Not surprisingly, it titled the book: "Europe, politics and passion." Passion, that's right. The task of politics today is to awaken this passion for Europe: knowing realistically that we live in the time of all the passions off. But precisely for this reason, we should aim at the formation of a neo-European political class, with the task of raising this uncertain time to a vintage dignity. If there were a party of European Socialism, it would make this its historic mission. We would like new prophets to inflame the peoples: the only antidote, this, to that the citizens, precisely, are inflamed, on the contrary, by improbable, improvised, irresponsible demagogues, who now risk having free camp. Problem: how can we make this which now appears, and is, really, a dream, begin to come true? That's what we need to talk about. It is necessary, of course, that small steps be taken, but among the small steps insert moments and shots of acceleration and anticipation. A first step could be this. In order for individual states to return to the lost primacy of politics, individual states must return to the primacy of foreign policy. Here is one of the points on which to focus the speech. In the age of economic globalisation, economic globalisation without politics, make foreign policy a state obligation. About two centuries ago Tocqueville explained to us that democracies are unable to maintain a long-term foreign policy. It is obvious why: because governments are short-lived and the opinion on which they are elected is easily changed. Think, to give a decisive example, of the difference in the management of international issues between a George Bush and a Barack Obama, think of the abyss that could be created between an Obama and, God forbid, a Trump. But that's not the point. The point is how to establish a European foreign policy, at least in the medium term. The immediate task is to get out of the terrorism emergency as quickly as possible, with all the consequences we know it causes, in order to regain the vision of movement, which is prevented from us by this emergency. We cannot think of tomorrow's Europe, surrounded as we are by what is boiling at our borders and reflected even within our borders. Then, and in the meantime, what do we do? I express an idea that I know very controversial and that certainly attracts many counter-replications in the current historical condition. But I am looking - and I believe we must look together - for a way out of the impasse in which the political idea of Europe is found. In short, this Europe is today a train with lots of cars. Maybe too many. Enlargement - it is being recognised from various quarters - has not been well thought out. It is very unbalanced: large states next to city-state. There is Estonia, Lithuania and there is no Russia: what credible Europe can this be? We are faced here with a kind of handicap, not immediately remedyable, but that remains there as a major unresolved problem. The reality is that cars alone don't walk. The markets turn them around themselves, each on his own. We need a political locomotive to drive them to a precise direction. A Union with two economic speeds is said to be: yes, but also at two speeds, an economic one, a policy. A broad economic union and a narrow political union. This new and ancient Centre-Europe - I let myself be guided by all my Central European cultural nostalgias - already has a center, historical-natural, and it is Germany. This image of Germany reduced to the fear of austerity is short-lived. Frankly, at this point, I prefer a German axis to a Franco-German axis. Around this I see it opportune and possible to set up a directory with Italy and France, then Spain and then, perhaps, Benelux. But knowing that Germany is there, solid, for economy, for institutions, for parties, in the heart of Europe. It's ground, it's solid. Britain is the sea, it is the liquid; not by chance, the island leaves on its own. Take care: land and sea are great geopolitical categories that we need to learn to use. One last, very brief consideration: President, historia magistra teaches us one thing: it does not unify waiting for the parties to come together. Apart from American exceptionalism, a country without state history that confederates different parts (but also there in the end it took, by means of civil war, a North that bends a South), Europe tells us other stories: in Italy it took the leadership of Piedmont, in Germany the leadership of Prussia. Without the Cavours and Bismarcks, you don't do these great things. The President of the Council often evokes an Italy leading Europe. Realistically, I don't think we can expect that. If we launch the idea of the re-launching of political Europe, we can aspire to be the first car after the locomotive. Italy is in a geopolitical position almost similar to that of Germany: as Germany is strategically between East and West, we strategically stand between North and South. This is our specific European political vocation, which we must recognise, but we must be able to practice it with skillful intelligence. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I never imagined that one day we would be here in this House discussing Britain's exit from Europe. My generation grew up with the dream of a Europe finally united, which set aside nationalism and cut down borders and thus also allowed those peoples who had been divided by wars, like that of the historic Tyrol, to be able to find themselves, in that common house of values to which President Renzi also mentioned. Europe will either put aside national selfishness or there will be no more. The change that European citizens are asking for means only one thing: putting policies in place to attack the economic crisis. It is therefore necessary: to reopen a perspective of the future, putting the social elevator back in motion; to combat the inequalities and social injustices that have increased in recent years, to start with the scissors in the distribution of resources and wealth and to give more confidence to the territories and their potential. This is the point on which the whole West collapses and it is here that the reckless idea of the past is affirmed as a happy time to which it is possible to return. Europe, in recent years, has made a financial crisis in the eyes of its citizens, which must therefore be countered with policies for economic recovery and not with the recipes for austerity, in a crisis of democracy, its inability to make the right decisions in relation to fears, anxieties and the difficulties of people. Woe to judge the citizens who voted for Brexit, as well as those who choose anti-system forces. The vote must be accepted and respected, as the President said earlier, because anti-politics hides the demand for a better, more effective policy in its action, which is truly capable of improving people's everyday lives. Also in Brussels, where I have recently been for a meeting with the highest political leaders in Europe, I realized that the greatest concern is the affirmation of populism and centripetal forces, which in these hours also emerge in France and the Netherlands. Good. What do you still expect? If one thinks of protecting Europe by waving the results of the stock exchanges or by making the people of the City talk, one makes a resounding mistake. Technocracy and high finance are the worst commercial possible for those who believe in our continent. As self-employed, we have always supported our Government's initiative towards Europe. The Italian Government, as the President-in-Office of the Council said today, was among the first to highlight the contradictions and problems that would have arisen if it had not changed its course. Minister Padoan is right that we need to strengthen the Juncker plan in order to have more investment and that we need to build a mechanism to manage the difficult phases and not to dump all the costs on the workers, provided that it is only the first step, only the first. The international context tells us that without Europe the world would be even less stable. I took part last week in the NATO Summit in Kiev on the Ukrainian issue. Well, the tensions in that area risk becoming explosive, the absence of dialogue between the parties involved, the temptation and the demand for a test of strength, create, day after day, the prerequisites for making the instability of the whole region lasting. I dare not imagine what would happen if there were no other forces, such as Europe or NATO, which, albeit with great difficulty and - so far - little results, did not keep alive the flame of a possible agreement to restore the truce in that area. Certainly the agreement reached between Israel and Turkey is a significant signal in this direction, but the Ukrainian one, unfortunately, is only one of the many fronts of instability and insecurity in the world. Europe, in order to be authoritative, must enjoy the support of its citizens who only win back if it succeeds in conveying the idea of an institution close to the suffering, anxieties and difficulties of those who look at the future as the time of uncertainty. I believe that this is the challenge and it is true in Rome, as in London, as in Madrid, as in Brussels, as in Washington. We're in front of an epochal passageway. Never before do we all have to live up to it. We all need to be aware of how big the stakes are. Italy continues to do its part. Let's just say there's not a minute left to lose. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u23	Senator Repetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not go too far in saying that this is perhaps one of the most difficult moments since the post-war period. We are legitimately and responsibly afraid because we know that the vote in the United Kingdom could only be the announcement of what can happen in every European country. We wonder: How is it possible that the British people, known for their rationality, decided to leave? Because there is a rift; a rift between the elites and the people, between the institutions and the citizens and therefore also between Europe and national public opinion. In addition, the combined effect of economic crisis, mass migration and terrorism has created new poverty, insecurities, fears and therefore a widespread feeling of malaise. Today the real challenge in the world is the ability to make globalisation a positive factor for growth for all and not, on the contrary, a negative factor of imbalance and increase in poverty. And only with a united Europe is it able to face such a challenge and remain competitive in the international market leading, by now, China and the United States. We'd be cut off from everything by ourselves. So what do we do now? We know the answer: it is a Europe capable of giving concrete answers to the citizens and of reconnecting relations with its citizens, with Europeans, with all of us. The British vote is the last sign for Europe and therefore we need to review Europe's social and economic policy immediately; but, at the same time, I say, probably against the thought of many, that change must start from us, from our mentality that always points the finger at others and that feeds the extremist and illiberal forces that risk bringing us into the abyss. The change must start from the individual Member States, all of them, which must put aside selfishness. And then let's face it: we've always wanted Europe, but then we've always been a little wary of it. Indeed, until we give up at least part of national sovereignty, Europe will only exist in our dreams. Until we break down national walls, there will be no Europe closer to its citizens. We will see it as an institution that overlaps with national institutions, thus doubling bureaucracies and the distance from citizens. In essence, the political, economic and banking union needs to be speeded up. And I believe that if this does not happen - and I realize that it will not be easy to find the courage to make this leap - Europe will be doomed to disintegrate, because Europe is either believed or not believed. I believe that. President Renzi said that Europe is our home and it is true: it is the home that has enabled us to improve our lives and has guaranteed us peace. But a house needs to be renovated. So the President, tomorrow, go with the tools to renovate it, to rebuild it. The situation, we all know, allows it to impose changes; it must do so with determination, with its determination, with its strength, in order to save this Europe and our home. [[Applause from the Mixed-IPI and Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u25	He is enlisted to speak Senator Romani Paolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say that Mr President-in-Office of the Council. In this connection, Mr President, let me tell you that we missed an opportunity this morning, which we had asked the Government in several circumstances; President Renzi picked up our request, speaking for a few minutes (perhaps he took his alibi to say even less than he should have said, from our point of view). But you, Mr President, missed a chance. In fact, I understand that the House, at this moment, is talking to my group leader, Mr Brunetta, and before that the Grillin Leader has spoken; this means that the House has accepted and has passed the concept of speaking in the presence of the President of the Council the Opposition Groups and then, I imagine, the debate will continue with the Majority Groups. We have missed an opportunity because the tired rite, of a tired democracy, which we are witnessing, in my opinion, does not honour this House. I don't think the Senate Rules are an impregnable bastion, President. We could have decided otherwise. The President of the Council would have listened to what the oppositions have to say. I imagine that the same comes to this prepared Assembly, having shared with its majority this morning's speech. We have missed an opportunity; I hope that will not happen next time. I can also tell you that I have heard you these days: it seemed to me that it was a reasonable mediation, at the time when the opposition forces had also given in to self-regulation of time. It is therefore not without difficulty that we in this House can devote a few brief considerations to the vote that has destabilised the European Union. I could linger in the analysis of the vote, of its causes, of its generational matrix and territorial declination, of the fears or, on the other hand, of the hopes of enlargement of an anti-European front; but I am speaking of a political force strongly convivial of the need to save the European Union, but which, since not suspicious times, even when it created Solini Oltralpe and in Italy, has always been very critical of the austere Euroburocracy. I therefore believe that this hour which we have at our disposal - I must say, poorly employed - must be aimed at urging the President-in-Office of the Council's commitment to the summits which are waiting for it this afternoon and in the next few days. We are asking him right now for his willingness to refer to his return to what he has discussed at these fundamental summits, first of all that of today in Berlin. The next few hours in Berlin - not by chance in Berlin, perhaps someone could say - must and can be decisive. The first commitment we are asking of you is that the three-way summit can bring about a genuine change of course, or the Europe of Brussels is bound to turn on itself; close to the pro-German Eurocracy, but far, far away, from the peoples of Europe. We no longer have time: the United Kingdom, on the other hand, does not seem to want to take time without repentance: once the markets do not wait to react. Italy pays more than others, certainly more than Germany; Italian banks are the most damaged: they sell BTP and buy bonds. The three-way summit - let us not forget that the Premieres of Germany, France and Italy, plus the Spanish one, have the political legitimacy to represent 70% of the eurozone's gross domestic product - must take extraordinary measures and decisions, otherwise they will assume extraordinary responsibilities. President Renzi - I would have addressed you - today you intend to press Chancellor Merkel, who has always been reluctant to complete the banking union with the single deposit guarantee? Making the ECB more and more similar to the American FED? To predict a real investment plan after the substantial failure of the Juncker plan, which should have set the real economy in motion in many European countries and which has produced only marginal, imperceptible effects? To share public debt also giving space to the use of eurobonds, obviously for the part exceeding 60% in relation to GDP, as dictated by Maastricht? Italy, for example, has all the requirements to host the European Banking Authority (EBA), as Antonio Patuelli, President of the ABI, also says, and must also strive to attract the capital, so far in London, that they want to remain in the European Union. President-in-Office of the Council, will you continue to do so? There is, however, a central question to which we would like to answer: what can be the Europe we want? Will it be the one in which the strong trade surplus of Germany and Holland is causing immense damage to the rest of Europe? In this regard, I would like to mention the intervention of the former Governor of Bankitalia Fazio a few days ago. Fazio said that if within the same system there is a part of the participants forced to remain in balance with the accounts and to reduce public spending, and a part instead stands in strong surplus, this absorbs the savings of the rest, creating deflation. The surplus in the balance of payments of Germany and the Netherlands, with the Commission forcing other countries to balance, creates deflation. Or Europe is the one in which Italy is content to deal with a few zeros, something that exceeds the deficit-to-GDP ratio, while France at the G5 (which is a new, unprecedented body, but where real issues are discussed and perhaps even real decisions are taken) has said very recently - it seems to me that Padoan was present - that he quietly wants to keep the deficit-to-GDP ratio at 4.5%, and the European Commission's threat of an infringement procedure answered: Do as you please. Will we not take this into account? Germany itself is a problem for other European partners. I would just like to mention two examples: the time derivatives that weigh on German banks and the German balance of payments current account surplus, which has a killer effect, much greater than the excess deficit of other continent economies. So we are clear what is the way to stay in Europe for a founding country of the European Community and for the fourth - indeed, from now on it is the third - economy of the Union? The bitter truth is that this failed Europe does not take us seriously. It does not do so when we call for the abolition of sanctions against Russia, one of the most short-sighted choices of international politics since the post-war period. The migrant emergency in the Mediterranean always seems to be a national problem and not a community one: the solution can no longer be to use the Italian Navy to rescue, many times a few miles from the Libyan coasts, boats in difficulty and to collect men women and children at sea, at times unfortunately already corpses. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Europe will have more to think about in the coming months. We're gonna have to handle this ourselves. I do not say to arrive at the Australian solution, which with typically Anglo-Saxon empiricism pulls the boats with a rope and takes them back from where they started, often no matter what cost of human lives. Today more than ever we need to intervene where the problem arises with precise, radical and surgical measures. We have the professionalism to do so and it is only a matter of political will. Italy wake up, Europe is distracted! I would like to address President Renzi, who is not here at the moment: are you able to obtain a European investment plan, including through Eurobonds, to finance the instruments needed to deal with the humanitarian disaster in the Mediterranean at its root? To finally move on to stage three of EUNAVFOR MED, as we mentioned earlier? To build reception camps on the North African coast? To implement a Marshall plan for Central Africa, of which we saw some timid mention at the La Valletta Summit in 2015, remained, as always in Europe, to the initial wish? To finally restore dignity and security to our country, which, in full international terrorism alert, shows that it has colabrodo borders? Is the British referendum the principle of the end of Europe? It's possible. It is certainly the end of Europe as we have understood it to date. It marks the end of the illusion that the adjustment of the Community building was a question of details, technicalities and commas to be settled in the endless discussions at the Brussels tables. However, I would also like to break down a myth: it is said that the so-called Brussels decisions are taken by the Heads of State or Government of the 28 - tomorrow there will be 27 - EU nations. But the preparation and translation of these political decisions into papers, protocols, directives and regulations is made by European bureaucracy: the political level must therefore recover responsibility for every act and decision. President Renzi, we are asking you for a few words: we need action today. We ask you not to linger in slogans and phrases with effect. We ask you to put aside your ambitions as a political leader and, indeed, to forget your party too (which, perhaps, you are also happy to do). Today you will represent the whole country, whether we like it or not, at the most important summit for the future of Europe. It is therefore incumbent upon this House to make a solemn commitment to restore Italy's role as the driving force of a new Union, which is no longer a German-led one. The European democracies in the late 1930s did not want to die for Gdansk. Are you sure Chancellor Merkel's Germany can't finally be brought back to right before someone speaks, for some reason, of the fourth Reich? A Union is needed to deal more with peoples than with rules, more with education, research and investment, more with unemployment and poverty and less with the few decimal places in the deficit-to-GDP ratio. A Europe of peace is needed, including economics. We await you on your return, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. This House will not make discounts for them: it cannot do so for the citizens who represent, for the country everything, for the Europe in which we have believed and in which we still want to believe for our children. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u27	Senator Paolo Romani, to be precise, I would like to remind you, as you well know, that on the order of interventions the House follows the rule of those who register first, alternating majority and opposition. At the beginning of the sitting, having been aware that the timing of the speech by the President-in-Office of the Council, as they were in this House, would be equally restricted to the House, the majority groups gave their time to the opposition. This could happen because it was already known that the timing of the intervention by the President-in-Office of the Council would be limited, assuming that we could not know except after it occurred; in any case, there was agreement between the Groups and not a speech by the President. That's for the record. [[Comments of Senator Paolo Romani]] As you know, there was my total willingness, in relation to all the contacts that had occurred earlier, to support this solution in order to make the oppositions speak in the presence of the President of the Council, which was not possible not being aware of the timing of his speech. That's exactly what I'm saying. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Latorre is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u28	Mr President, I would like to add a few notations to your words and point out to my colleague Paolo Romani that until now, if we exclude the profound reflections proposed by Senator Tronti, we have only heard critical contributions to the proposal and the initiative of the Government, so I believe that the President of the Council has been able to gather elements from the outset and certainly others could have gathered. [[Comments.]] It was bitter, very bitter, Mr President, the awakening of last Friday after we had all gone to bed with a sigh of relief at the first news on the outcome of the referendum, news then totally denied by the final result. I would like to say at once, because it has not been emphasized so far, that the assurances heard in these hours are however important about the fact that our country runs very contained risks and that any initiatives are already prepared to face the financial consequences. However, I think it is not an exaggeration to call Brexit a historic turning point for all European countries and not just for Europe. I would like to say to Senator Lucidi that the problem is not that we do not want to acknowledge the will of the people. We have taken note - indeed - of that will; if anything the problem is that today we must all be aware of being in front of a crossroads and it will be decisive which of the two roads of this crossroads we will choose to walk in the coming months. It will be a decisive choice for the future of our societies and I do not think it is excessive to say that it will be decisive for the future world balances. It is no coincidence that, immediately after that result, commenting on the results of the vote, in addition to the intervention of the various European leaders - as was obvious - all the major world leaders intervened and it is no coincidence that the Brexit theme has entered all round and bullied the electoral campaign that is taking place in the United States. It has been widely said and written about the reasons for that result. Today, too, we have heard of the unfinished part of the work of building the Union, of all the risks facing us. I do not want to repeat things that are well known and to a large extent acceptable, and I must confess a certain discomfort also in listening to the usual refrain, heard every time a difficult passage has been recorded in European history. I am thinking last of what accompanied the debate after the Grexit risk, although Europe had never before been faced with a crisis of this magnitude. For some years now, despite the increasingly significant warnings about the serious difficulties of the relationship between the European institutions and national public opinion, we have heard solemn statements that have never been followed, on time, by the concrete changes needed. In interpreting - I believe - the sentiment of the whole of our Group, I would like to stress here the appreciation for the first statements made last Friday by the President of the Council, which were then developed in this morning's speech. Moreover, I would like to recall the concrete action taken by our country at European level, first - let us not forget - during the Greek crisis, then during the European Semester under Italian leadership and finally, in the many, perhaps too many European summits in which we have tried to force other countries to change course, to act more than to declare and share the management of the most significant dossiers on which to measure capacity and - I would like to say - the usefulness of Europe. I would also like to add that on some occasions it was Italy that offered the image of a Europe with a human and solidarity face, internationally appreciated. Dear Senator Centinario, other than ferries for illegals: our international missions at sea have been able to combine a police work with a humanitarian action that honours our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Thanks to all this, today our country is objectively called to play a leading role in overcoming this crisis, starting with the meeting scheduled for tonight in Berlin. In the many comments to the vote it was very frequent the call to immigration as a factor that, more than any other, would have caused that electoral behavior. In fact, for too long immigrants have in fact been transformed into the perfect scapegoat in which the resentment of segments of public opinion has gradually been channeled. However, it is precisely from this dossier that Europe should be able to affirm a European strategy for governing the phenomenon in all its aspects. On this aspect, our country has indicated a path, last with the migration compact. Otherwise, they will have more and more free hand those entrepreneurs of the malaise, so lonely and in action in the last few hours to feed that haunted utopia against Europe. The same security demand, which is perhaps one of the strongest in our societies, today can only be seriously met in a European dimension. Similarly, Europe must put governments in a position to develop those investment policies that help to create jobs and reduce social inequalities that are no longer bearable. In short, if one does not act immediately in this direction, the breach opened by Brexit will become a great breach and more and more risks realizing that terrible omen that a careful man as Soros has pointed out forwards in an editorial talking about a possible European disintegration. From a political point of view, then, Europe has already been faced for a while, but now with more force, two dangers: populism and instability, deeply linked to each other because, in a vicious circle, one feeds the other. The populism, which has now camped at that crossroads where solitude and rebellion meet, needs and feeds on unstable political and institutional systems and, for this reason, fragile and unable to decide. After Brexit it is worrying that in a great country like Spain two elections took place in six months and it is not yet known whether or not a government will be formed. I believe that we must also take this into account in our discussions, because stability is the condition for acting and beating populism; and from here too the holding and development of a European perspective passes. So, to conclude, it is time for the truth for the European project. It has been said that Europe remains our home, that it must be renovated, but above all that we must act concretely and immediately. We believe that it is worthwhile to insist on this at this evening's summit and at the next European Council. At times like these, the Head of a Government should be able to count on the solidarity of the whole Parliament and all political forces, because much more than just a few votes are at stake. Certainly this evening and tomorrow the government will be able to count on our Group's strong support. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u29	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I note that motions for resolutions No 1 (text 4), No 2, Senator Calderoli, No 3, Senator Tosato and other senators, No 3, Senator Barani and other senators, No 4, Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller, No 5, Senator De Petris and other senators, No 6, Senator Centinario and other senators, No 7, Senator Bonfrisco and other senators, No 8, Senators Candiani and Arrigoni, No 9, Senator Lucidi and other senators, No 10, Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. I call on the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled. 12.5 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u30	Mr President, I am in favour of motion for a resolution No 1 (text 4). I am against the motion for a resolution No 2. I am in favour of motions for resolutions Nos 3 and 4. I am against motions for resolutions Nos 5, 6 and 7. With regard to motion for a resolution No 8, I am in favour, provided that the following rewordings are accepted. In the third paragraph, replace the words "all inadequacy" with "difficulty" and eliminate multiple contradictions. Replace the first commitment with the following: It commits the Government to promote in every European headquarters the need for a full involvement of the parliaments of the EU countries in the stages of approval of large-scale trade treaties, such as TTIP. Replace the second commitment with the following: It commits the Government to promote in the EU the opening of a reform of European policies that includes, if necessary, a revision phase of the Treaties. If these rewordings are acceptable to the proposers, the Government's opinion is favourable. I am against the motion for a resolution No 9. As far as motion for a resolution No 10 is concerned, I am in favour, provided that the following rewordings are accepted. On page 4, to amend the fourth paragraph (the failure to relocate is a clear act of distrust in policies and practices...) we could speak of a worrying fact, but not of a clear act of mistrust. On page 7, third paragraph (the commitment relating to financial aspects) replace the words "to assess, in this sense, the possibility "to the extent of the relevance of Italy" with the following "to promote budgetary changes and changes to the multi-annual financial framework which take into account: i. for all additional expenditure, compared to those used in 2012, of the expenses incurred in the crisis of migrants". Consequently, the following paragraph should delete the words: "as a result of the reduction of the Italian contribution to the EU's activities". We shall see this in the context of the budget review and especially in the multiannual financial framework. On the last page of the motion's text, as regards the commitment to EUNAVFOR MED and Libya, the words "in the shortest possible time" should be replaced by the following: "as soon as the conditions on the ground permit." We would also like to delete the words in the same paragraph: "by assessing, moreover, if this is not practicable (...) the possibility of The commitment to the Juncker Plan should be reworded by replacing the words "to fill the delay" with the following: "to make full use of the European Fund for Strategic Investments." I understand your concerns, Senator Paolo Romani, but it is premature to establish that these funds are already lacking, even if you know very well that Italy is the main user of them. We agree to strengthen the Juncker plan, but giving these figures as certain is premature. With regard to the penultimate commitment, we propose the following rewording: "to take action at European level to ensure that the European Union's position on sanctions against the Russian Federation is properly considered at political level." This is our position. No to any automatic renewal of sanctions, but the need to bring the debate to a political level every time. If Senator Paolo Romani and the other signatories agree with these reformulations, the Government's opinion becomes favourable.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u31	Let us begin with Senator Candiani, who must give an answer on the proposals for reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u32	Mr President, the rewordings of the Government are not acceptable to us, because at this point it is essentially excluded from CETA as an act of competence of the Italian Parliament. For those who don't know it, CETA is a similar agreement to TTIP, but in this case it concerns Europe and Canada. It is clear that if you start from this, then you do not understand where you will end up. We have had a clear expression: people want to count and the British people have spoken in a referendum. We consider it unacceptable for Mr Calenda to continue to insist that Parliaments be expelled from having a say in the treaties concerning life, the future and the destiny not only of the economy, but of the way people live. Finally, I would remind the Undersecretary Gozi that in the Conference between the Presidents of the national parliaments last year, right here in Rome, the President of the Senate and the President of the Chamber expressed themselves in the same way, together with their counterparts from other countries, asking for the commitment of governments to ensure that all treaties, including CETA, were subject to the scrutiny of national parliaments. This inevitably means a discord, but the thing that worries us much more is that there is an explicit will to take away from the citizens the final choice on their own destiny. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u33	Senator Paolo Romani, do you accept the proposals for reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u34	Mr President, I am combated, as is said in these cases, but I would like to give priority to the clarity of our political commitment. Therefore, although some changes are certainly acceptable and accessible on our part, there is no clarity on the issue of EUNAVFOR MED. We believe that phase 2 must absolutely end: we can no longer allow the Italian Navy to catch thousands of people directly on the Libyan coasts. Therefore, it is necessary to give a strong signal of suspension of such activity, not wanting to determine in the Mediterranean a cemetery of people who come to seek economic freedom in our country. Such mediation could not be understood. So, in order to be more clear, we would like to maintain the text that we have presented. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u35	He again asked for the intervention of Undersecretary Gozi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u36	Mr President, if the other rewordings are accepted by Senator Paolo Romani, if this is the only point he considers unacceptable and since the text speaks of an assessment (so much so that the expression is used: "where this is not practicable, in a reasonably short time, the possibility of the suspension of the current phase 2") the Government can reconsider the rewording of the commitment relating to the EUNAVFOR MED mission and accept the original text. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u37	Motion for a resolution No 10 was therefore accepted by the Government in text 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u40	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the utopian vision and ideal impetus of the founding fathers have long been lacking in European policy. The emotional vacuum left by the lack of European courage and utopia has been progressively filled with fear and distrust of institutions considered too distant and foreign. Europe, as if it were a Manzoni's undoer, has been poured out by the frustration of the marginalized of globalization, by the fear of uncontrolled immigration, by the resentment of the disillusioned, by the rage of the periphery against the centre. All of this has also been made possible by the cowardice of a European political class which has found it convenient to place on Europe the responsibilities of choices that are both necessary and unpopular. Small-scale leaders have allowed Europe to be the scapegoat for what was wrong. It would be absurd, therefore, today to think that we can save Europe by finding a new scapegoat, perhaps just the referendary instrument or rejoice because in Italy it is not possible to hold a referendum like the British one. This thinking will not save Europe, because Europe is saved and progresses if a large majority of European citizens share and legitimise the process of European integration. There is a democratic problem in Europe but it is not the risk of new referendums. It is the lack of democratic legitimacy of the nerve choices that Europe has taken and that the economic crisis has brought to light in a dramatic way. In the eyes of all of us Europeans today, who decides the fate of Greece? The European Parliament or the German Chancellor? With what right, and with what legitimacy? What public debate accompanied the fiscal compact? What public debate is planned for TTIP? What role have European citizens played in dealing with the conditions in Greece or Italy? By what means is it democratically sanctionable who is responsible for this disaster? Europe's political crisis is not caused by the British referendum. The political crisis in Europe is caused by its leaders who continue to ignore the seriousness of these simple questions. And the democratic crisis has been accompanied in recent years by a cultural and social crisis. How can we expect the impoverished middle classes of Europe's rich countries to be willing to be supportive of the peoples of the other EU countries more in difficulty, after decades of neoliberal policies that have accustomed themselves to considering solidarity and social justice as old-fashioned and dangerous concepts, obstacles to economic development? Never before is it clear how a less timid and deeper integration process is needed to save Europe, enabling the Union to equip itself with the tools it needs to give the answers that the citizens expect. The problems of democracy are solved with more democracy. The problems of integration with more integration. Italy, as the founding country of the Union, must carry on and courageously propose a constituent path for a different and fully political European Union. From this moment of crisis the opportunity is seized for the necessary step towards the United States of Europe, to change course to the economic policies of the Union and correct those stupid rules that make sense only where one wants to continue to give priority to some States at the expense of others. Italy has the courage and foresight of the founding fathers and summarizes that central political role that has always had in the history of our continent. The resolutions tabled are many and varied. The Government gave its agreement only to some, and the opposition to the one presented by the SEL Group and the Italian Left, which I have signed because I find it contains common sense aspects that, if in agreement, are certainly applicable. In all cases, Italy of the Values will vote in favour of the resolutions on which the Government has expressed its support, as well as, of course, the resolution tabled by the Italian Left-SEL, as we also agree on what is required by the latter. [[Applause from Senator Petraglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u43	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, we have listened as always to the fine words of the President-in-Office of the Council. These are some of his statements that I have noted: after Brexit we cannot ignore anything; the democratic vote must not be ignored; we have made our contribution to change something; Europe must fight a battle of social justice; it lacks awareness of the seriousness of the situation. Finally, the President-in-Office's last statement was: Europe must move. We have strongly called for a signal of discontinuity, but if we look at the views expressed by the Government on the merits of the solutions proposed, we can only take note that words do not follow an awareness of the real needs that must be carried out by our Government. In the recent economic forum in St Petersburg, President Renzi spoke in words in favour of revising the decisions taken on sanctions against Russia. From the very first moment, the North League strongly affirmed that sanctions are a real madness, have caused incalculable damage to our economy and no positive diplomatic results. The sanctions should not be extended, but cancelled. There is only one truth, unfortunately: Europe does not care about the welfare of its peoples, its communities and its citizens. We asked the government to take a firm and clear position, not ambiguous. Good words and good intentions are no longer enough. The signs of mistrust and the insuffering of the peoples of Europe are becoming increasingly evident. Brexit teaches: the risk of European dissolution becoming an unstoppable avalanche is a real risk. The Government, by expressing its opposition to our resolutions, does not highlight a responsible awareness of what is happening, it does not show the will to change, but to persevere in the current European policies dictated by an establishment far from the needs of European citizens. This is the Europe of those who carry out the interests of the few against the interests of the many, it is a madness that you support and support servially and that will lead us to a future of mass unemployment, of increasing social inequality, poverty and misery. This, Mr President, is not our Europe. It is not Europe that we want, it is not Europe that we once dreamed of. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u46	Mr Langella (AL-A). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the results of the British referendum have led to a profound change in the overall political set-up in Britain, first of all, where a crisis has opened up, whose outlets are, at the moment, indefinable. In fact, in the background is the problem of the same political unit as the United Kingdom. What will Scotland do? And what are the trials going to take place in Ireland, whose past bloody conflicts had only been resolved in the name of Europe? This is not to mention the economic perspective of that country, whose power, especially financial power, was guaranteed by the relative solidity of the pound and the capacity of its double anchor to the euro and the dollar. The City will remain the great financial center that we know or will be undermined by Milan, as the Mayor Sala proposed? And what will Paris and Frankfurt do, the big multinationals, the tax domicile of FCA? Will the land of England remain? But if Athens cries, Sparta doesn't laugh. It may be true that the blow to Europe will have a minor impact, but it will still be a blow, not so much from an economic and financial point of view - there will also be that - but from a political point of view, especially geopolitical. Let us not forget that, as a result of Brexit, the distances between Paris and Moscow have decreased and not to the advantage of the Union. Then there is the risk of a domino effect that can lead on the one hand to the exit of other countries, on the other to accentuate that fracture that within the same founding countries divides the reformist forces from the populist ones. However put it, then, on June 23 will not be remembered as a day to celebrate. And please spare us the rhetoric of the triumph of democracy. A decision of this magnitude was endorsed by a minority vote involving about one third of those entitled. An episode similar to what happened in many Italian municipalities, with Mayors elected by a minority, less than 25% of the electoral body. And then let me call back to Rousseau's ancient lesson and call out a warning about the danger of the manipulations of electoral systems in relation to the necessary manifestation of that general will which, yes, is the true foundation of every democracy. But we are Italians, bearers of a culture that allows us to see the glass always half full, and therefore to see even in the most difficult moments a thin thread of hope to be appealed to in the idea that not all evil always comes to harm. And then, to look beyond the bad situation these days, Brexit did nothing but confirm that we were right when we pointed out the dangers and shortsightedness of elite leaders too closed in a short-term national perspective. Today pretending that nothing happened would be just an announced suicide. Instead, we need to change and change quickly to make up for lost time. In our resolution we referred to the main issues: migration, development, investment. The technical declination of a turning point which presupposes the progressive construction of a common will. We do not need walls to curb the free movement of men, but these same walls cannot exist for budgetary policies, financial arrangements or banking rules. With the necessary graduality, from a purely national dimension, an increasingly Community breath must be pursued. This is the invitation that we address to President Renzi, when he is preparing to express Italy's position, at the next summits. We must be aware that behind Brexit there is also the failure of a political axis - the Franco-German one - which had the ambition to lead Europe towards a radiant future and instead resolved in a serious defeat, which must be remedied. But in order to achieve a credible result it is necessary that the protagonists themselves of the past have the strength to regenerate themselves by opening up to the contributions that can come from men of good will who only care about a history, the European one, that we do not consider absolutely finished. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u49	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, in recent months the political debate that preceded this European Council has focused particularly on the consequences of a possible UK exit from the European Union. And unfortunately this will be the work of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. Unfortunately, the possibility today has become certain: the United Kingdom has democratically chosen to leave. We are witnessing, in the aftermath of the response of the consultation, what is happening in the markets, even today, and the negative and heavy consequences for the European Union and the United Kingdom itself, which is likely to implode (just see what is happening in Scotland and Ireland), which are not now fully calculable but only conceivable. It is certain, however, that the common thread linking all the comments on the subject is the statement that the European Union has been perceived, in particular by the British, as a binding organization in certain respects and unable to resolve rapidly emerging social issues as an alleged influx of immigrants at its borders (I would point out that when we talk about immigrants in the United Kingdom we also consider themselves as immigrants Italians and all those who come from the continent) and above all the economic and financial crisis that has invested the whole world in recent years and that, thanks to the interventions of the ECB, we have managed to contain the damage. It cannot be denied that this is the real difficulty and it is not so much Europe, as a constitutive project, but rather the national states, which are unable, on the one hand, to cope alone with the processes of globalisation, on the other hand to share their sovereignty on fundamental issues, such as emigration, the fight against terrorism or the management of financial crises, in order to enable Europe to play its role in the world system. This is all the more true in the case of the United Kingdom, which, jealous of its absolute decision-making sovereignty, has always kept itself on the margins of the European Union, opposing any further integration, in fact limiting the possibility for the European Union to strengthen its institutional framework and offering sap to growth in its own country of Eurosceptic and even anti-European positions. If we think about it, even the recent concessions torn from Cameron did nothing but feed and accentuate the foreignness of the United Kingdom (it is no coincidence that Cameron himself played his own political future). Moreover, in the United Kingdom the debate on whether or not to participate in the European Union has far-reaching roots: it was already alive at the time of the Treaties of Rome. We are therefore faced with a very complex period, a period in which rapid and immediately practicable decisions must be taken on the major issues that have long been on the table: migration, the issue of employment, growth, investment in order to try to reduce as much as possible the inconveniences arising from the abandonment of the European Union by the United Kingdom, but above all to respond to the needs of the citizens of the rest of the Union. In our opinion, therefore, it is essential that, since today, in the meeting to which President Renzi will participate, significant signals be given, that can continue in the next two days. In our view, for example, it would be important to review and give more powers to the European Parliament. This may be a good opportunity to review also the constraints and rules of the Stability Pact and the fiscal compact. A reflection that must necessarily take advantage of what happened on 23 June. As far as public and private investment is concerned, it would be useful to imagine a mechanism which would make it possible not to consider infrastructure investments for national budgets, which are the ones most likely to produce employment. This may be an opportunity to define a European unemployment insurance scheme proposed by Minister Padoan. In short, the resolution before us seeks to address all these problems, on which we call on the European Union institution today to strike a decisive and firm blow. They are all themes on the various tables of internal and international consultation and need to be completed quickly, trying to overcome the dry areas that have very often slowed down the implementation of effective policies and give an image of a Europe that is often slow and inconclusive, far from the lives of its citizens. Particular attention must be paid to Europe's ability to respond quickly to emerging problems, such as migration and economic crises, where solutions give the idea of being far away or, even, produce deleterious effects, as has been seen in the electoral reactions in the various countries. It is enough to see Spain, which in the end remains in a situation of great precariousness. In this regard we hope, therefore, that the Italian proposal on migration compact, which redesigns European policies with regard to relations with third countries and, in particular, with African countries, will finally be approved. It is a decisive contribution to the European Union's strategy to curb migration flows. The action that the Government is taking is absolutely consistent with the spirit and letter of the founding treaties; a spirit which, however, must be rediscovered and renewed and which, in our opinion, must begin to partially overcome the issues relating to economic and trade union, having to look more towards solidarity and subsidiarity, which are the sap of cohesion and fuel the real participation of the States in this institution. I conclude by reporting the words of President Renzi, in whom I found myself very much yesterday, contained in the final part of the letter sent to "Il Sole 24 ore". We must take up the concept of Europe, that Europe in which we believe, that Europe we want: Because, at the end of the day, waking up for Europe simply means returning to itself: a land that has chosen peace because its fathers had known war. Who invested in growth because his fathers had experienced hunger. He builds bridges because he knows how bad the walls have done. And that he must recover ideals, not just parameters and constraints. I therefore hope, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that these words will guide you today and in the coming days, because at this moment you have a great responsibility, not only for our country, but for the entire continent. [[Applause from the Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u52	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I have already made an invitation to go beyond a debate and purely rhetorical proposals and to enter into the substance of a number of dry proposals, which we are putting forward in motion for a resolution No 5, at my first signature. I would like to quote them very quickly: the revision of the bail in and the fiscal compact, a great plan of policies to combat inequalities and poverty, which we consider essential, the introduction of a European unemployment benefit and, above all, the financing of a serious plan - and not that of Juncker - of public investment, even with the possibility of issuing eurobonds. This resolution also deals with other points, which are linked to one of the issues we consider to be fundamental, namely the recovery of the social dimension of Europe, together with the inversion of the democratic process. For this reason, I am voting in favour of our motion for a resolution, the vote against the motion for a resolution tabled by my colleagues in the majority, the vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Senators of the 5 Star Movement Group and the vote in favour of the motion for a resolution signed by Senator Candiani, which deals with the fundamental issue for us of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Treaty (TTIP) and the Global Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) with Canada. Unfortunately, the government's negative responses on all these points make us say that, once again, we have the vague impression that this radical turning point is in danger of not being there. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u55	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, the path devised by the founding fathers of the European Union has suffered a setback these days and as such must be assessed. The causes that led to the outcome of the referendum are many and far from obvious. The long wave of the global crisis, the persistence of crisis situations, with the consequent observation that the level of well-being decreases and that the disparities between the social classes grow, is the basis of the phenomena of scepticism towards Europe and, more generally, towards traditional politics, which rage on our continent. Then there is the lack of awareness of the real risks that come from the South, from the East and, in the near future, from the North, literally encircling the old Continent, under the pressure of terrors and epochal migrations. Fear of immigration is an issue which has so far not been well managed by the European Union. The British citizen probably thought that, by closing in a hedgehog, he would avoid these risks, forgetting that British laws are the most unfortunately permissive and allowed the establishment of enclaves where Islamic radicalism prospered and prospered. Consider, then, the superficiality of the debate during the referendum campaign, based almost entirely on instinctiveness and confrontation and very little on rationality: this is a serious responsibility, which must be attributed first and foremost to the political leadership of the conservatives, who did not know how to explain the true reasons of the Remain. What are the steps to be taken to enable the European project to continue? Don't try to go back. Each people assumes their responsibilities and must pay the consequences. We have to start from three. We need a Europe of three: the first was that of the founding fathers, the second was that of the current enlargement and the process must be led by the three actors who, through their great men, were protagonists of the founding idea: Germany, Italy and France, but who must refer to the values of Adenauer, De Gasperi and Schuman. The European Constitution must be rewritten, starting from a clear affirmation of the historical, cultural and religious roots of the Old Continent, giving space, also linguistic, to the different traditions and giving, for example, a leading role also to Italian and Spanish alongside French, English and German, and having as its objective the growth of the welfare of all, not of some at the expense of others. We must overcome national or particular egoisms, which would make us reduce Europe to a articulation of small Provinces, handing us into the hands of the powerful on-the-job: Russia, China, Islam, but also the United States itself. Provide for flexibility and not bureaucratic rigidity. Here responsibility is strongly in the hands of Germany, but the others - including us - cannot blame the Germans, but they must demand respect for all levels: political, economic, social, cultural. Implement with political courage of development, to increase individual and collective well-being. So far - let us say this - the only Mario Draghi has appeared to have a lucid strategy in this direction, but alone he cannot think of holding up, also because economic and financial measures, if they do not have a solid common political vision behind them, risk failing miserably. Recompose the divisions, moving in a logic of inclusion: popular, socialist and liberal must convince themselves to govern together everywhere, at least for the next ten years, to bring the Continent out of the crisis and to regain the consensus of the citizens towards politics, beating demagogies and whatunquisms. We are faced with long, difficult processes, but the way is one and without return. We wish ourselves to be able to respond to these challenges so as not to give future generations a worse continent. Let us consider introducing the direct election of the President of the European Commission to bridge the gap between citizens and the European Union. We have a large investment plan (with or without Eurobonds), well beyond what Juncker has adopted so far, to promote employment, growth, well-being and equality. We complete the banking union with the single deposit guarantee: a concrete project to tackle youth unemployment. Let's implement the migration compact and the global foreign policy strategy, already proposed by Italy. What were the basic limits of European integration, Mr President? The euro is a currency without a state. In other words, the historically always existing link between currency and state authority, which exercises its sovereignty through tax and currency, has been divided. We must quickly overcome this fundamental contradiction; the paradox of a policy of strong austerity carried out precisely during the longest and most serious recession of the post-war period. It has thus trampled on, and literally reversed, every teaching of Keynes, which assigned to the balance an anti-cyclical and not a pro-cyclical function. Of course, budget deficits must be prevented in the years of economic expansion, but imposing vigorous deficit reduction policies, at a highly recessionary economic stage, has only produced millions of unemployed. We must now reflect on a different Europe, but it would be a mistake to desist from the Community integration project. On the contrary, we need to be in tune with a strategic horizon that includes an increase in common policies, a defence policy, a foreign policy, a security policy and, in future, a common economic policy. Europe must give itself a new face, which stimulates and relaunches the economy and makes us feel less alone and stronger. That the future must follow this direction also emerges from the observation that 75% of young British people voted for the remaining: those who have experienced directly the opportunities that Europe offers, do not want to withdraw from these opportunities. The project of the United States of Europe, the project of the Founding Fathers, which conceived it at a time of greater difficulty than today, must be resumed and updated. In order to relaunch the process of Community integration, then, we will have to reflect on the mistakes made. Any reasoning about a new beginning would in fact take on the contours of the vain academic exercise, if we were not to start from the fact that the German-led European Union has adopted in recent years, in the context of a recession more serious than that of the '29, economic policies oriented to absolute austerity, which, combined with unprecedented emergencies such as those represented by geopolitical decomposition and the migratory flows that have resulted, have ended up giving breath to populism and racism. It is our task to actively engage in changing Europe by helping to make it more human, fairer, closer to citizens, more cohesive and strongly rooted in the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. We must actively contribute to the strengthening of solidarity and cohesion within the Union, at a very difficult time - let us say so - where we are called upon to face enormous challenges that affect the lives of our citizens. These challenges require a genuine common economic policy based on growth and employment, and a common migration policy that is effective and long-term. Europe is our home - I share the view of the President-in-Office - the home of all of us. Let us strive to improve it and make it a guarantee for the new generations. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u58	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, today, with the announcement of Britain's exit from the European Union, we finally finish (and I believe that President Renzi has also finished) with the populism and demagogy with which he came at every European Council to ask us whether we want more or less Europe. We want a different Europe and we have written it in our motion for a resolution. Unfortunately, we have not even been asked for a reformulation, so I suppose it has not even been read and it has been rejected simply because it belongs to the 5 Star Movement, which is not too popular at the moment. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Italian Presidency of the European Union was negative and President Renzi was unable to do anything at all. We, as the 5 Star Movement, have always said that we are opposed to Italy's forced stay in the euro, we have proposed an advisory referendum to ask Italians what they think of the eurozone and we have never questioned the importance of building a European Union based on the dream of the founding fathers. We therefore think of a European Union of reception, a European Union of democracy, where the European Parliament is at the heart of the decisions of this Europe; we think of a European Union that can manage a migratory flow, all things considered not too important, in a shared way. The migratory flow was in fact the biggest failure of this "holy alliance" between Germany, France and Italy that handled this issue in a dramatic way. We have asked on several occasions - and we have also done so in our motion for a resolution which has been completely ignored by the President-in-Office of the Council - to revise the Dublin III Regulation, but not simply by allocating quotas for migrants based on the GDP and population of the various countries, but by reviewing the concept of the first port country: if the European Union is to be so, migrants must be managed in a shared way and not with the ridiculous issue of the first port. That is exactly what we had written in our motion for a resolution. We have also been very critical of previous European Councils on giving Turkey the management of migrants. We are right now, because Europe pretends to be welcoming and then entrusts the management of migrants to a country that does not respect human rights and that has repeatedly violated the Geneva Convention in the management of migrants. We strongly condemn all this and do so as a 5 Star Movement that is accused of racism [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In fact, racism belongs to those who paint themselves white and then actually shoot migrants as it is happening in Turkey. You are allowing a Nazi Europe to be built, because Hitler, dear President, also wanted a united Europe, but it is not what the 5 Star Movement wants. I do not want to go too far on this, because this trip by President Renzi is also almost meaningless when Europe is falling apart. Senator Monti said at the time that what the countries were building was a dust of Europe, a Europe that no longer had reason to be as it was and this has become a reality. On the other hand, the question of Britain shows how citizens should choose, but citizens must also be able to choose - this was also indicated in our motion for a resolution and you have not commented on it - whether to remain in the eurozone or in the European Union. At the moment there is no feasible procedure to exit the eurozone and remain in the European Union, so in our motion for a resolution we also asked President Renzi to commit himself to Italy's taking step-by-step decisions, but he did not take this point into consideration either. As far as the explanations of vote on the various motions for resolutions are concerned, we shall vote against Senator Calderoli's motion for a resolution No 1 (text 4), because it deals with immigration without really addressing it at European level. We want a Europe that manages migrants in a shared way; we do not fight for them to go to one country rather than another, but for there to be clear rules, so that those who have a right can stay and those who do not have a right are sent back to their own country; but this must be a European management and not of individual countries. On the other hand, we shall vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 2, which refers to sanctions against Russia. This is also an issue that we have raised several times in a number of questions. The sanctions against Russia are ridiculous, they damage Italy, they only serve to kneel before the United States of America and to create a pole that excludes Russia. We, on the other hand, have relations with Russia; especially our agro-food sector has constructive relations with this country and wants to maintain them. We shall vote against the motion for a resolution No 3, signed by Senator Barani and others, and the motion for a resolution No 4, at the first signature of President Zanda, who is a concentration of hypocrisy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If you wanted to do something good, you could take advantage of the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. What is the government's use of a majority resolution? You should just write: we're ashamed, we haven't finished anything yet. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We shall vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 5, tabled by Senator De Petris and others, because we agree with all the points. We shall abstain from the vote on motion for a resolution No 6, because there are some points that cannot be accepted. In addition, we will be voting in favour of motion for a resolution No 7, which is very much in agreement with the idea of supporting citizens with regard to bail in and working in a multi-speed Europe. We will vote in favour, despite point 7, because we do not expect derogations from welfare, as Britain has done, but we would like a shared welfare in Europe. In any case, while waiting for a shared welfare in Europe, we agree that everyone should be able to manage their own state with the derogations granted to Britain. Finally, I should like to say a few words about the motion for a resolution No 8, on which our vote will of course be in favour. TTIP is a much more serious act of killing democracy than any other European treaty, and that is not being discussed here. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We MEPs are forced to read the TTIP pages in secret rooms, without phones and with contingency times, without the possibility of making copies. There is a state secret on the management of a country's phytosanitary rules. Putting the secret of state on the safety of citizens is simply a disgrace! For these reasons, we shall be voting in favour of the motion for a resolution at the first signature of Senator Candiani. We will of course vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by our Group, which I ask the President-in-Office of the Council to read because it is a concentration of wisdom, perhaps putting forward some proposals for reformulation. Finally, we shall vote against motion for a resolution No 10 (text 2). The 5 Star Movement entered into detail, while President Renzi made the usual demagogy. No majority has read or commented on the content of our motion for a resolution. I urge you, from now on, to abandon this populist and demagogic attitude and to begin to confront you also with the oppositions on European issues, because Europe belongs to everyone. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u61	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, let us not dwell so much on the controversy surrounding the way in which this debate is taking place, which perhaps could have been carried out with greater attention from the Government. I understand that the day is intense, but perhaps the three-day summit could also have been postponed for a couple of hours, explaining the need to listen to the Italian Parliament (with all due respect for Hollande, whom we see rightly engaged in the stadiums in France to attend the football matches). The summit could also be held at 8 p.m., so as to give Parliament a few more hours and not the speeches of individuals, who can have a limited weight. But that's the way it is. After all, Renzi doesn't even listen to Putin and anyone else. Renzi can listen to whoever he wants. He'd be wrong anyway. Before, Senator Latorre mentioned George Soros, one of the protagonists, in our opinion negative, of the financial markets, which in recent days has foreseen the dissolution of Europe. I remember that Soros doesn't just make predictions, it also feeds speculative movements on the markets. He, therefore, does not foresee, but causes. Without wanting to get lost in the following, the Forza Italia Group believes that Europe should not be broken. Europe is necessary. Already today we are driven by the Asian competition, often unfair, of those who produce counterfeits or of those who, polluting their own piece of planet, exports steel or other products to our country where, instead, we begin to be much more attentive to the issue of environmental impact. The problems are already many and a Europe broken in individual states would be even more easily engulfed by capitals that no longer come only from the places where they historically form, but also from the East or the South of the Planet. So we are Europeans by nationality and conviction. And I do not want to speak rhetorically now about the Europe of merchants, about that and about the other. I turn it over to the record, given the limited time. But I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, as President Paolo Romani said just now, that we had identified a number of problems and problems. When the government led by Berlusconi fell in 2011, we denounced Europe's shortsightedness and the contrast, not by chance, with Merkel and Sarkozy. Even our membership of the European People's Party is not a subordinate membership, but we are full of history, values and traditions that Italy brings to that kind of reality. If we had been supported when we denounced the shortsightedness of that European policy and those types of agreements, perhaps we would have less disagreements in Europe today. This happened a few years ago. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] And I would also like to say that the other issue that we refer to in our motion for a resolution, in addition to the constructive and positive considerations that our document puts forward, concerns international policy. The Berlusconi Government belonged firmly to the PPE and to Europe, but with a dialectic presence and not subordinate, especially with respect to Germany's wills and overpowers, to speculative maneuvers and everything that then happened and that we do not forget, from the sale of Italian titles to everything that then happened. But I also remember that that government was able to open up to an ever better and more profitable dialogue with Russia. We note that our assessments have been partly shared by the Government, but we believe that the European Union, which continues to penalise Russia in a negative way, is causing damage to our companies. I would also like to say to Renzi - I am telling him in future - that it is useless for him to go to St. Petersburg to say that the channels of dialogue with Putin's Russia are reopened if, a few hours later, he confirms the renewal of sanctions for other months, with the enthusiastic accession of Italy. You can see that, playing with his phone, he didn't listen to what Putin said to him during that summit. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] On this too we claim the strategy of the governments of the past, as on the subject of immigration. The Berlusconi government was mocked for dialogue with Gaddafi. Well, at that stage, however, the departures were blocked by Libya. We put up with some weird Gaddafi stuff. Then, the West proclaimed the war, by the will - look a little - of Cameron, who must resign, of Sarkozy, who was defeated, of Obama and Clinton, the first who is about to leave the Presidency and the second who we hope will not get there. With that war, won by the West, we caused that Libyan disaster that we don't know where this is going to go. We made a policy of realism, which managed to contain the undisputed flows of immigration. So it is not that we are theoretical Europeanists, but we are Europeanists with an autonomous position, as protagonists, which has often led us to clashes within the European Union. Was anyone happy with those difficulties and maneuvers? Well, we were right, and those who were behind those who laughed were wrong. I am not talking about European Socialism, which is unable to give any solution and which has been defeated in Spain. Even in the UK, if Cameron resigned because he lost the bet, I think the new Labour leader is not feeling better. Mr President and representatives of the Government, there is no doubt then that Europe is necessary, but it needs another pierced, it needs a restart. Renzi evokes Ventotene; yes, very well, but statesmen also want us, because, if populism is an evil, the euro-imbecility and the euro-inadequateness of too many are perhaps even worse than populism. So we hope that there will be the strength, personality and historical hardening to face this passage. We are in a passage of historical dimension and I do not know if anything will help this evening's summit with Merkel and Hollande. Hollande who, if voted in France, would take less votes than the Spanish singer of the same name who was defeated last night, fortunately, in Spain. A colleague tells me that no one in the government listens to us; but this is normal. By not listening, you will leave the benches of the Government; we know, there is no doubt. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] As far as EUNAVFOR MED is concerned, the Government has accepted our drafting. I'll tell Minister Pinotti, since he has operational competence. Remember what you welcomed. With regard to phase 3, the one with the collaboration of the Libyan Government to really fight the hullers, or it can be implemented quickly in a reasonable time, or the mission must be suspended. One thing is humanitarian aid, another thing is to put dozens of ships in the Mediterranean that are an incitement to the hullists to implement their traffic: this is happening. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Between Friday and Sunday, government lords, 12,000 illegals were brought to Italy, and they were not all women and children; the news rightly frames the pregnant woman who moves everyone or the child, but 90 percent was made up of solid and robust young people, who then complain in Italy if there is no wi-fi in the hotel, who come from Gambia, Bangladesh, from a lot of parts of the world. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Centinario. Comments of Senator Cardinals]] If you want to continue bringing 12,000 people every 72 hours, you will kill Europe, because Europe must help, but it must also defend itself. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u64	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I am among those who believe that major issues that put very complex international treaties at stake, which for decades have already deployed their effects, should not be able to be submitted to referendums, and with foresight our Constitution does not allow international treaties to be submitted to referendums. And the reason is clear: the referendum, by its nature, simplifies the problems up to radicalize them and can have consequences even if not desired by those who promoted it. I thought that in the United Kingdom he would win the remainder and that the imaginable disastrous consequences of the leave would cause him to lose. On the other hand, things have gone as we know. Those who believe and respect the rules of democracy must now accept without delay the result of the vote, try to understand the reasons for it, work to understand where we too have been wrong and what we must do to face a European condition that has become very difficult. I would like to say at once that if Italy, as it must and can do, wants to help bring about a positive new and serious European crisis, it must demand that the United Kingdom's exit procedures from the Union take place quickly, transparently and clearly. You cannot stay in the European Union with one foot inside and another outside and you cannot stay in because of the benefits that the great economy of the Union offers and outside because you do not like to cooperate in the reception of migrants. Europe owes so much to the United Kingdom, for the strength with which it has resisted Nazism and has allowed us all a democratic and free future. The United Kingdom is and must remain our great ally, which links us with so many economic and strategic interests and with so many historical and cultural affinities. It is certainly not the friendship between Europe and the United Kingdom that is at stake. But this is not the time of time, nor of time, nor of concessions or special statutes of privilege. The will of the British people is to get out of the Union and Europe has a duty to respect it fully, without compromise and even less without mess. We too see the dangers and risks of a bureaucratised Europe far from the human and social needs of its citizens, far from the culture and traditions of its inhabitants. But we believe that the idea of Europe is much stronger than its ills and we want to help it to correct itself. We know that in the time of globalisation, of the most advanced technological revolution in history, of the migrations of entire peoples, our destiny and our children are closely linked to the ability to make Europe grow, not to the maneuvers to make it collapse. It is different from the political judgment of the British leadership that, without taking full account of its consequences, this referendum first evoked and then sought, cultivated, until it was celebrated and finally lost. None of the great leaders who in the past ruled the United Kingdom, from Churchill to Macmillan and Thatcher, would ever have allowed the survival of the European Union to be put at risk so lightly. In many countries of the Union there are political forces that place the death of the euro and the disintegration of the Union first in their programme, which want us all to take a step backwards of 70 years. This is the underlying ideology which prevailed in the British referendum, which is not only neglecting the future of Europe, but also the integrity of the United Kingdom, where, given the outcome of the referendum, both the Irish issue and the very delicate issue of Scottish independence can be reopened. They call it the domino effect. Europe's democratic political forces must do everything possible to prevent a regression of many decades and to stop a process of fragmentation, excessive nationalism and localism, political selfishness and, above all, short-sightedness. No European nation, not even rich Germany, is able, alone, outside the Union, to face the challenges of our time. Apart from the economic, industrial, integration and even military consequences, the exit of the United Kingdom places European peoples and parliaments in front of their historical, political and moral responsibilities. A great Italian daily in the Saturday editions, has summed up our responsibilities with a title in cubital characters: "Europe, awakened." From here we must start our response to the exit of the United Kingdom. As Mario Tronti said earlier, today more than ever we need a European foreign policy. We can no longer continue to shout with rhetoric that we want more Europe, without saying at the same time what it means in practice more Europe, what are the paths we want to take to achieve it and the times we need to complete the work, what are the prices to be paid in terms of national sovereignty, such as the return in terms of economic and strategic security of the continent. More Europe means mainly more democracy and more politics. More democracy requires a stronger European Parliament. It's not difficult, but you have to want it. In order to have more policy we need to work for a federal Europe to which the States, even sacrificing a large part of their sovereignty, entrust security, defence and foreign policy, budget and tax. A Europe that takes responsibility for the fight against international terrorism, migration policies and development and expansion policies. Nobody needs a bureaucratic Europe that claims to measure clam millimeters, that contests the production of cheese of pit, that distastes of farmhouses and even rosemary, as yesterday, ironically, said in an interview Romano Prodi. The 500 million European citizens need a Europe that is inspired by the principles of the founding fathers and that is committed to solving, first and foremost, the major geopolitical, economic and social problems of our continent and, instead, does not give precedence to a meticulous and excessive regulatory activity in matters that would be appropriate to the discipline of the national states. The Senators and Senators of the Democratic Party appreciate and support the political line that our Government and the President of the Council are holding in Europe and welcome the respect with which Italian positions are accepted. Starting with the call for more attention to development policies and the call for a drastic change of course, which can give a long-term breath to European immigration policy. Today Italy is heard in Europe not only because of the quality of the measures it proposes, but also because of the political stability it has expressed for some years. In an international context where considerable parts of the destinies of nations are formed, we are all weighed down by the stability we are able to express and by the responsibility for our positions. On the day that the outcome of the Spanish vote does not resolve the uncertainty of the political framework of that country, let us look at the map of Europe and observe the very precarious stability of so many nations weakened by difficult political conditions, by the economic crisis, by the delay of reforms, by institutional systems that suddenly turn out to be fragile, by xenophobic and authoritarian tensions. Italy, contradicting its very different tradition, is today a stable country, with an advanced and significant reform programme, respecting the Maastricht criteria. From here comes the international credit we enjoy, which allows us to bring our vision of Europe and our national interests to the attention of European and non-European partners with authority. To an economic crisis now ten years old, with its dramatic social consequences, to mass migration, to the numerous and dangerous international tensions, the serious effects of Brexit are now added. I say to the political forces of majority and opposition: let us defend the stability of our country, let us not waste it on our internal porches. Let us remember that stability benefits everyone, while instability also severely damages those who determine it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u65	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1 (text 4). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote on all motions for resolutions to be taken simultaneously by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 (text 4), tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for electronic voting, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senator Tosato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for electronic voting, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senator Barani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for electronic voting, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 4 tabled by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 5. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for electronic voting, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator De Petris and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 5 at the same time. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 6. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for electronic voting, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 6 tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 7. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for electronic voting, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 7 tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on resolution No 8. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for electronic voting, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 8 tabled by Senators Candiani and Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on resolution No 9. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for electronic voting, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 9 tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on resolution No 10 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for electronic voting, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 10 (text 2), tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u66	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-646.ana.u67	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Tuesday 28 June, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 14.06 a.m.
