ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u1	The sitting was opened (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2271, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 282, 453, 454 and 1236.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u5	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u7	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, legislative intervention in the publishing sector was important, partly because, if we look at the data, unfortunately we see that per capita investment in support of pluralism of information is the last place in Europe. The constitutional guarantee to the freedom of expression of thought provided for in Article 21 of the Constitution also states that the citizen's right to information must be guaranteed through maximum external and internal pluralism. We have frequently noticed, and unfortunately with great regret, that this is not the case; indeed, we often check that the power of information is in the hands of a few and not, instead, of most citizens: it is in the hands of so-called strong powers. To have certain rules was therefore necessary. Above all today, it is more important than ever to have certain rules in the field of information, both in the printed media and in the radio and television sector. In fact, let's consider the risk our country is taking. Should it enter into force, the wicked constitutional reform, in conjunction with the electoral law, would drag the country towards an authoritarian drift. Already there is some feeling on some channels of information. There may be a greater focus on some of the ideas of certain political parties than on others, but this is not pluralism of information and does not protect the citizen. This is where we must continue along a path of truly certain and above all correct rules. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Many times, even in the past, the North League has led with force of battles, one of which (for example) has been to counter precisely the contributions that were made to newspapers that did not distribute their own copies (it is in the records and you can go to verify it). We have insisted and, with several amendments and proposals, we have tried to remove those contributions to the fictitious newspapers. Another battle done by the North League was to eliminate the benefits, contributions and postal facilities for listed companies, because one could not understand the ratio of giving public contributions and citizens' money to all those companies that edit. However, by chance, they were listed on the stock exchange and were useful to distribute to their partners. We were then able to win this battle in the last parliamentary term. And it is also from this point of view that, during the course of the draft law under consideration, we insisted on the ceiling of EUR 240,000. I would point out that the North League has put forward this proposal not only on this occasion. We have always tabled several amendments and the PD has always said no. On this occasion too, we have reaffirmed and enshrined a fundamental principle for us. The pluralism of information is right, it is right to guarantee every freedom of thought and it is right that citizens should have different ways of analysing the same problem, as they will then decide. This principle is guaranteed by helping small publishers and small businesses with real information using public funds. It is wrong, however, that such public contributions are used to guarantee the salaries of large managers. This is the principle that we have defended strenuously and, thanks to the rapporteur Cociancich and the Government (which at first was a bit hesitant), it was then understood how fundamental the inclusion of the roof was. We regret, however, that Senator Calderoli, who has waged a battle in the Commission (starting with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs) on the issue of the EUR 240,000 ceiling for RAI employees and administrators, has been answered no, which was not the time, which could not be done by accepting his agenda. After that he 'baptized' in the Chamber and finally the rapporteur, Mr Cociancich, understood the importance of this issue. What is sorry is that - forgive me, colleagues in the PD - it now seems to have been a PD victory, which is not true: only one was used, according to which the rapporteur anticipated his amendment, despite the identical amendment tabled by Senator Calderoli. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Senator Calderoli's amendment did not want to be adopted first: the rapporteur's amendment had to be approved first. Another point that needs to be specified is that the EUR 240,000 ceiling in the RAI will enter into force when it is published in the Official Journal. This is so that no one can think that it will be introduced into the next board of directors, when someone else decides or perhaps when legislative decrees will be issued. No, the roof enters into force at the time of publication in the Official Journal, because it is not in the part of the delegation, but it is in the part disposition. This measure, in conclusion, presents some positive aspects, but also many others unfortunately in which there are shortcomings, and - let me say this, Undersecretary - this causes a war between the poor publishers: this goes to the small newspaper, this to radio, this to television. And what is penalized? I repeat, the fundamental right of the citizen to be informed in a correct and absolutely not biased manner is penalised. This is what we were asking for, and we insisted on it: on a question of fair information for the distribution of public contributions. For all these reasons, our vote will be one abstention. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u8	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u10	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the reform of the system of incentives in the publishing sector has long been a priority, firstly with the redefinition of the discipline of public support and, generally speaking, with the reorganization of contributions to publishing companies, on the basis of new calculation requirements and access related to objectives of sound management and profitability of journalistic companies. The objectives set out in the delegation measure to the Government, presented in the previous legislature, were technological innovation, support for the restructuring process of companies based on efficiency and modernisation objectives, the cessation of the undifferentiated direct contribution regime, digital publishing and the modernisation of the distribution and sale system of newspapers and periodicals. The non-approval, in the XVI legislature, of the aforementioned delegation has proposed the same guidelines and problems for the examination of the Chambers in the current legislature. The forecast, with the 2014 Stability Act, of a Fund for Plurality and Innovation of Information, and the corresponding resources allocated from 2014 to 2016, has further made necessary a reform measure called to put an end to a long transitional phase. On the basis of the new parameters and delivery criteria, the overall framework appears to be more homogeneous and rigorous and more attentive to the efficiency of the management of journalistic enterprises. Today the Senate is called to vote and, on the substance, to support (as we are convinced must be) reform measures that can be defined as system, therefore not at all marginal and partial. In the text approved to the Chamber, the maintenance of contributions for the publishing companies of newspapers and periodicals, the expression of linguistic minorities, had been appropriately included as a criterion for the exercise of the delegation. During the Senate examination, as an Autonomous Group, we supported the introduction of other measures to safeguard the protection of linguistic minorities in relation to the role and governing and control bodies of the Order of Journalists. With the acceptance of our proposals the role of the Order is changed, establishing that the functions related to the keeping of the register and those related to the discipline of the members are exercised, as well as at regional and supraregional level, also at the level of the autonomous Provinces and, therefore, it is possible to establish a special Council of the Order also in Bolzano. At the same time, our proposal that at least two members of recognized linguistic minorities (one for journalists and one for publicists respectively) should be present in the National Council of the Order which now consists of 60 members has been transposed. They are deeply motivated choices and which, as far as the Order of Journalists is concerned, respond not only to ethical and professional principles, but also important and essential, but are in line with the objectives of protecting linguistic minorities. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, Mr Cociancich, and Mr Giacomelli, undersecretary, for their sensitivity to linguistic minorities, and I declare the Group's support for the Autonomous-PSI-MAIE Group. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u11	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u13	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reasoning and reflection on pluralism have been done throughout the whole process of the provision on information at territorial and national level. We are all convinced that for an evolved democracy it is fundamental to base itself on the plurality of the voices and not on a concentration produced by the market of a few people who hold the power of information and who can guide the formation of convictions and public opinion on the basis of specific interests and on the basis of concentration and possession of the media. Having said something we are all convinced of, it is clear that it cannot only be the market that regulates the existence of warheads that have the characteristic of being autonomous. Now, on the basis of this conviction, we as the Italian Left welcomed, already in the Chamber, the launch of a measure that - we can call it a mini-reform of publishing - set up the Fund for Plurality and Innovation. This in a moment and in a context - it should be remembered - in which the economic crisis, on the one hand, and the very rapid and almost chaotic transformation of the media and communication, on the other, have led to a profound crisis in the field of Italian information and publishing, which is likely to lead to the end of numerous newspapers, especially those that try - there are not many - at local and national level to make independent and independent information in order to guarantee citizens the right to be informed. Among other things, from 2009 to today, these warheads are reduced to a third. For this reason we have offered our active contribution to the House, including by amending the bill that has produced positive results, as well as by working in the Commission here in the Senate. In this regard, I hope that what we have done on the occasion of this measure will serve as a lesson in style when, in a few days' time, we will be dealing with issues that may seem more complex: we can make this House and the Commission important places where we can prepare texts that incorporate the opposition's proposals, as in part happened on this measure. Does that solve everything? We are not so naive as to think that the establishment of the Information Plurality and Innovation Fund alone can guarantee the application of Article 21, which has also been rightly included in the references to Article 1. We are certainly not so naive as to believe it: it is a small step forward that may perhaps allow those independent newspapers I was talking about before to continue to do their work; it is a useful measure that approaches that goal. Do you face the knots of these months of the great movements that exist in the world of information and publishing? No. He doesn't even touch them remotely or perhaps on the sidelines. Think of the RCS case, the merger between "La Stampa" and "La Repubblica" with the annexed sale of "Centro" Pescara and "La Città di Salerno" to return to the limit of "Antitrust." Of course it does not touch them but - I repeat - the work that has been done with this mini-reform of publishing ensures, in my opinion, to take a step forward, especially to accompany the world of the media in this phase of transition - let us call it this - from a crisis situation to an attempt to sustainability also on the market, to move forward and guarantee pluralism of information. Important elements had been introduced into the text of the House, even with our work. In this connection, I would also like to mention the amendment which has given rise to a series of controversy, the famous contribution of solidarity required of the advertising dealers to feed the Fund itself, even if the text arrived from the House still had some critical elements. In this sense, I believe that the work done here in the Senate, in the Commission before and in the Chamber after, has been absolutely improvementable in addressing some of those critical issues that I was talking about through a work of adjustment of the measure. In fact, it strengthens the attention on the local issues and on the problems of diffusion of the publications of opinion, restores the difference (which had been indisputably eliminated) between local and national, changes the relationship between copies sold and distributed, intervenes on the increase of the advances brought from 30 to 50%. In other words, it is a series of provisions which may seem secondary, but which are important for many of those independent and independent newspapers which would have a number of difficulties and problems. The work done yesterday with the approval of the amendment on wage ceilings was absolutely crucial. Yesterday the Undersecretary has explained us - and also the RAI today it has declared - that the company was proceeding in this sense and I believe it is important, in the moment in which it is introduced, from the amendment of the Government, the article 6-a bearing the start of the process for the renewal of the concession to the RAI, to have made all (almost unanimously) this step forward. It's an absolutely fundamental signal. However, there are still some critical points that I cannot hide: I am thinking of the low level of the fund. We have said that we welcome the establishment of the plethora fund, but it is still unclear how much of the canon will be allocated to this purpose; the resources, in my opinion, continue to be modest, there are too many delegations. Therefore, the critical points do not escape us at all, but we believe that this mini-reform of publishing and the provision for the establishment of the Plurality Fund are undoubtedly a step forward. That is why I declare the Group's vote in favour. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and Senator Cociancich.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u16	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, the text that we are about to dismiss is of extraordinary importance for a country that actually wants to propose itself as a host of a sound and democratically oriented publishing, but it has too many flaws to be able to obtain the favorable vote by a Movement that was born also and above all because in Italy there is no real freedom of information. (10 o'clock) (Follow Morra). Therefore in this way not only in advance of the contrary vote of the Movement, but I remind everyone that in Italy there is an emergency information connected precisely to the management of the publishing world that is before everyone's eyes. This is not only supported by the 5 Star Movement, but is an obvious fact when we study the international rankings, with which unfortunately we learn that our country for freedom of information is increasingly in positions that we would like to abandon as soon as possible. This is because, with an extraordinarily perverse interweaving of political power, but also of economic power, they are able to intervene in the world of information by playing on the extraordinary and also difficult to loose node of ambiguity so that one cannot clearly define what is public service or private product. At the end of the day, there is no mention of and justification for a support intervention which unfortunately, especially when discretion is guaranteed in the intervention (maybe even in the Commission itself), ends with situations that should be felt by the users, i.e. the citizens, to determine. What does this mean? It means that, when with the second V-Day we provocatively launched referendary initiatives, we signaled to the Italian political society that there was an emergency on which we had to intervene and could not procrastinate. However, after years, we can only record a permanence of absolutely unacceptable unresolved issues. Italy is the only country in the world where newspapers die, but then resurrect thanks to a return, on the so-called market, of funding, for which private publishers - or perhaps public - manage to download as usual to the taxpayer a cost that is absolutely unacceptable when it is claimed that the product that is financed erodes a service. But if it is a service, it is a public service and it must guarantee everyone and it cannot be a partisan service, because otherwise we confuse the particular with the universal and this is what we have done in Italy. On 25 April 2008 - and not by chance on the day of the anniversary of the Liberation - hundreds of thousands of signatures were collected to propose three repealing referendums. It was wanted that citizens could intervene on public funding for publishing, on the suppression of journalists' order and on the abolition of the Gasparri law and here we enter a little bit into the subject. If newspapers and publishing realities - online and paper, of course - are capable of gaining credibility from the public of free and aware citizens, because they are properly informed, they should have the ability to self-support themselves exactly as happens in almost all of the world. I am pleased to see you shaking your head, Mr Undersecretary, but I have the boxes full of having to remind the Italians, in my speeches, how much newspapers have cost us that there are no more or that there are still, through operations that have been wanted by the partycracy alone. I believe that Antonio Gramsci himself, who founded the Unity, would still suffer some magoni in thinking how it was editorially and entrepreneurially managed a newspaper that was to be a vehicle of truth and not a tool of propaganda. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Why do we have to say this? Because when the State is truly a guarantee of citizens' rights, it must set the general rules and enforce the rules so that the market does not cannibalize the citizen, becoming a jungle. Few of us in this House have pointed out that we have a drugged advertising market because of legislation that has favoured the crystallization of a duopoly, in which a private individual actually dictates the law and manages to absorb resources that are guaranteed in other European countries to paper publishing and therefore newspapers that, between subscriptions, daily sales and even advertising spaces, are able to be independent. In fact, there is not something more beautiful than independence for which it is decided that, for example, we must proceed in a certain direction at the editorial level and, whatever it costs, unless we realize that it is a mistake, we go ahead, without having to find that maybe who bought a substantial advertising package can send you a text message that I don't know how to define: a small invitation? A warning? An exhortation? Or maybe a "pizzino"? In an audition to the Chamber, Marco Travaglio recalled an episode on which all of us Italians should reason, an episode related to an affair involving Enel, which has been privatised, but remains a giant to which all of us Italians are somehow tied. Very good: the production of financial instruments that are placed on the market has been the subject of analysis and judgment by a journalist de Â"Il Fatto Quotidiano", Giorgio Meletti. He never did, because Enel felt touched in the living: you can't afford, you Giorgio Meletti and you're the Daily Fact, to be able to think something. You have to keep quiet, because the culture of omerty is what power wants when democratic is not. And so, ladies and gentlemen, here we have a so-called information market that, rather than regulated, is subsidised by granting the government, also in this measure, through the fund (the fund, because you with the definitions are particularly good, considered a little that skill you had in building the referendary question); with the fund for pluralism and innovation in publishing you, drawing on RAI (which should be public service and use conditionally), go and finance who you decide, provided that obviously write as much as you want. And that is absolutely unacceptable! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Other would have been to hand over to an authority, to a third party, the responsibility to make these choices. Not to mention the question of the Order, because the Order is important - unfortunately the time is running out, but you have to make me say this - not only to control access to the profession, but above all to guarantee freedom to those who exercise it. Two days ago in Cosenza a publisher was sentenced, even if only four months ago, for private violence causes the suicide of a journalist who was subjected to harassment of all kinds and then, in the end, decided to take his own life. Because this happens, at present, because of the precariousness that affects all these young boys, who are in love with a certain profession and who very often are left alone in front of giants who can do anything and more. We are always in that Calabria where (because we wanted to publish the news of a probable warranty notice to the son of a colleague who is State Secretary) a newspaper did not go to the newsstands, because casually that night the printers blocked. And this is how you guarantee freedom of information! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u17	Conclude, Senator Morra.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u18	MORRA (M5S). Then we must not be surprised if, fighting against knowledge and information, we in Italy continue to have increasing rates of disinnamoration towards the management of the public thing, because - excuse me, and you know this - what is more beautiful than serving your own community? As long as it draws on the information provided that it is correct in the management of the information. But if you, mindful of the lessons that have left us totalitarian systems, contracted and controlled television, newspapers, online blogs and so on, eventually you can also make the Italian people a people who want to hurt themselves, because not participating means voting against. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u21	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the Forza Italia Group will abstain on this measure because, on the basis of the initial doubts it had, it has been able to contribute in some ways to the reformulation of the text, which I shall quickly refer to, and this leads us to an interim assessment. Among the various issues, however, it has emerged what is not the central point of the measure but the debate, namely the issue of RAI, wages and economic treatment, which has been included in this measure, which, I recall, is aimed essentially at the support of publishing. I would therefore like to devote part of this speech to clarification. Let us start with what is now provided for in the measure with the amendments tabled by the rapporteur. As we said yesterday (but I remember it to remain in the proceedings), there were amendments tabled by the Forza Italia Group, by me and Senator Bernini in agreement with the Parent Company, Senator Paolo Romani, amendments by Senator Calderoli, who yesterday renewed them until the last possible moment, and by the 5 Star Movement Group. When the rapporteur noted that the approach in this House was broadly in favour of adopting amendments, he himself tabled an amendment and accepted the sub-amendments that we tabled. Let us say that a parliamentary work has been carried out: it has been discussed, it has been discussed and a summary has been found. Meanwhile, the measure will have to be examined in the House and, therefore, the expenditure ceilings will not enter into force: this is obvious, because there is still bicameralism. Some people then wonder if the roofs will apply retroactively. Are they going to be ex tunc or ex nunc? It is equally obvious that the expenditure ceilings are to be applied immediately, I say so now and there is no need for interpretations, because it is in the logic of things. I do not want to imagine here that the Director-General of RAI, who has already given inaccurate information about his economic treatment to the RAI Supervisory Committee, said that he had signed the contract before he would not comply. Nor do I question this issue, either politically or legally. I say this because I am reading today about the Republic - I do not know whether it is true or not - that the Director-General of RAI would be irritated because, while RAI was self-regulating (as I recalled yesterday, the Messenger had just announced this self-regulation yesterday morning), Parliament intervened. We have been discussing this matter for a long time, we have not intervened because Campo Dall'Orto was self-regulating, so we do not understand its irritation. I read on "the Republic": As I had already said in Surveillance - Campo Dall'Orto explains - we have always been willing to accept the regulations. Of course not! When we presented the transparency plan we had already begun to deal with abnormal cases and so on. Looks like he's upset. Well, calm down. I understand that he is irritated, because he is going from 650,000 euros to 240,000 euros of remuneration, objectively, it is not good, but he will learn that we live even with 240,000 euros. Then I imagine that there will be the diary and the refund of lunches and cappuccino, but there we will be relentless: the fight against receipts of regional advisors has been waged, we will fight the receipts of RAI. And then, I fear that we will be talking here in a while, because there would be a lot to say about how justice on these issues has worked in an abnormal way in some cases. I have no doubt, therefore, that these roofs will be in immediacy. In the explanation of vote I would like to remind you that the Director-General made the mistake of telling us, in the RAI Supervisory Committee, a lie, claiming that he had received a "payment" similar to that of the last Director-General: it is not true, because the last Director-General had reduced his salary, adapting it to the ceiling of 240,000 euros, after having received a higher treatment because he had issued bonds and we have clarified, with an amendment, that even the financial activity cannot, in the case of the concessionaire of the public service, claim as if it were to respect the roof. The amendment is quite clear to me. Therefore, I have no doubt about the interpretation; then the irritation I am sorry. I don't even resent individuals who will see their salaries reduced: some I know and value them and maybe they value and deserve more. Life is long and everything is on the market: change. The RAI also hired Semprini, who yesterday reached 3 percent share. Undersecretary Giacomelli, it is not that I am a nostalgic of the "Dancerò" of the first edition and of Giannini, but all this innovation is not very good. Today "Panorama" has published a title on the new director of Rai 3 defining it "a bit "snob" a bit "flop," or maybe more flop than snob, alluding to its style and also to the very modest results it had, with 2 percent share. But perhaps to you, who did 2% on La7, that the new program does 3% looks like a big hit. Always reading today's newspapers I read about "Il Fatto Quotidiano": "11 illegitimate leaders." The DAC decapitates the RAI. Now, the headlines of "The Daily Fact" we know them, are always exaggerated, so no one will be guillotined. However, the Usigrai, union that has often seen me disagree but whose positions follow and with which I compare, has presented some exposed to the National Authority anti-corruption contesting the excess of recruitment of external. That RAI can hire an outsider has always happened: you can look for a director, a genius, it's not forbidden. RAI is a public company that, however, has to be on the market. It is not easy to manage RAI because it has to compete with Murdoch and it has to comply with the rules, which we are applying, of the public administration (as long as I wanted the convention to be fifteen years old, but the amendment has been rejected, so we are defending RAI). They were presented because some external recruitments were not made according to certain criteria. I say this to colleagues who do not follow the issues of RAI: the job post has been used, a public selection, for the direction of Rai Ragazzi, which is also very important, but for Rai 1, Rai 3 and more have been hired outside without making the selection. I guess that's why Cantone intervened. So he'll take care of this and not drugs, about which he said a lot of nonsense. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] It is better for Cantone to deal with RAI and the risk of corruption. You appointed him to the National Anti-corruption Authority, not to other functions, to deal with anti-corruption. I don't know if there's any corruption at RAI, I hope not, but there are irregularities. I do not know if the fact has written the truth, but that there has been an excess of superpaid outsiders is a fact, because some thirty have been hired. Two, three, four are good. I think of a conductor, a journalist or a genius of finance: RAI is a company, why doesn't it have to tap into the world? However, he finds them all out of these genes. Today's newspapers tell us that we do well to legislate. Abstention also stems from the fact that we have helped to change the rules on the Order of Journalists. Undersecretary Giacomelli, we found it improper to use this measure to reform the Order of Journalists, which was long awaited. We have done so - and I say this to my fellow Members who have said that the body is too plethora - that the national council should remain 60 members, who are not paid by the State. I think it was made up of 130 members and it's halved and there's no public salary. I don't know if they have refunds, too, but we'll pay them with quotas. I, like you, am a member of the Order of Journalists and as members we pay a fee. We hope that the administrators will manage it better than the INPGI, but this is another story. I believe that this reform could be done differently. We have found a way of confronting each other and some of our amendments have been partially accepted. That's how laws are made: arguing. Let me turn to the last question and finish. This measure is mainly aimed at financing publishing. There are worthy cases, to protect pluralism, and there is waste, there is no doubt. In the past, this funding was an addition to public funding for parties. I come from party publishing, I'm not ashamed of it, and there were contributions that were also addressed to the big newspapers (then they were bigger and more important) of the various parties and it was also an integration of public funding. Today we are in another era and this funding is reduced, then there are cooperatives and initiatives (some worthy, some pretentious) - because made the law, found the deception - and some transparency serves. Attention, however (I address the Undersecretary Giacomelli): if we do not address the issue of the so-called web tax, i.e. a regulation of online publishing, which was also discussed yesterday, we will have warm cloths. A long time ago, in the daily newspaper "Corriere della sera" "Celentano" wrote defending copyright, in that case of music, claiming that "If you didn't pay the bread anymore there would be no bakeries," because no one would make the bread if it were free. Celentano said so for music: if music is stolen - taken for free - on the web, the authors (also artists and creativity has a value) have no remuneration. Today all journalistic content is looted on the network. I'm still one of those people (like most of us in here) who buy eight or ten newspapers a day, but we're in charge and we don't text. If we allow the looting, through the network, of any content, without defending creativity, it is useless that we give the contributions because even the great newspapers, which are not bigger, will die. It will be the evolution of the times: the trains also replaced the horse carriages and the net is replacing the paper. But you have to be careful, because if everything is free, then who controls the information? Who recognizes professionalism? What is the quality? The web is full of real and false things, we see it every day that " Venezuela" was true, even if false (but that is illiteracy, it is not the mistake of the web), and I believe that we have to propose again both with the law of stability and at international level (the recent cases of Ireland and Apple, and whatever else make it urgent) to establish a regulation, otherwise some have to bleed out to do information and others steal the content of others and give us free, which will be fun as well but it is not fair. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u24	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, today we are dealing with an important measure as it relates to the sensitive issue of pluralism and freedom of information, the principles of which - as I recall - are set out in our Constitution in Article 21. Certainly the history of political and parliamentary confrontations in the past decades, in a field such as that of the media, has seen so many changes in the market as well as in technologies, uses and habits, with which not only information is administered but, above all, it is used. The measure intervenes in a period of historic transformation of the media with substantial modifications of the choices of the users, with a clear increase of the consumption of information, and intervenes with the intention of opening up to the future and not to be born already old. 10.25 a.m. (Follow Collina). On the other hand, technological developments have verifiable impacts over time and are difficult to predict. In the short time available to me I would like to highlight only a few aspects which, moreover, as a proxy, will have to wait for the enactment of the implementing decrees in the short time of six months. As is often the case, the measures which are the subject of a long debate within a branch of Parliament are adopted with substantial convergence on the main issues. This means that when they reach the other branch of Parliament, it is normal for there to be no substantial reason for changing the balance points achieved. Therefore, we must acknowledge to the House that we have proposed to the Senate a well-made measure that substantially meets the expectations of the sector also in the definition of clear criteria that exceed various overlaps and opacityes of the past. This does not alter the fact that in the first Commission and then also in the work of the House we have developed the measure in depth, so much so as to advance further with respect to certain objectives and giving completeness in respect of sectors that were originally excluded from the measure. The delegation lays down precise criteria on who can and who cannot access the contributions, focusing on the non-profit and the cooperatives of journalists, therefore on publishers who are journalists themselves. Both party newspapers and publicly listed companies are not included. I would stress a number of key elements related to obtaining contributions, such as the need to meet regularly the obligations arising from the application of collective labour agreements, the presence of premium criteria for the permanent recruitment of young journalists under the age of thirty-five, for training and updating of staff, the provision of incentives for investments in dynamic and multimedia digital innovation, including through the provision of ways to promote structural investments in advanced digital platforms common to several independent and independent publishing companies. Clearly, therefore, the intention to accompany the main processes of change and innovation in order to diversify the channels of information, to co-exist and integrate them emerges. Another brief reflection must be made on the Fund, which is set up by this delegation law. The forecast on the recovery of revenues relative to the RAI canon seems comforting, but I think it is worth pointing out the operation fee in the bill: since the television apparatus powered through the electric plug for which the connection is obvious, we are about to see realized the greatest recovery of evasion. Beyond that, with the Fund so fueled, we give a positive picture of perspective not only to the publishing industry, but also to local television, which will ensure the process of reordering the possibility of stabilizing in the coming years. I would also like to highlight a problem to which we have given an answer that I hope is sufficient (it is certainly better than the House text). I am referring to having rightly shifted the perimeter of contributions to cooperatives and non-profits. On the one hand, it is an important fact, because it means supporting those who provide information also and especially in the territories, but on the other it means that these contributions, their certainty in size and, above all, their punctuality in delivery become fundamental for structures that have in the labour factor and not in the capital factor their substantial point. The accepted amendment, which rebalances and recalculates the advance, we hope will allow the right contractual force in the relationship with the banking institutions, which are the second leg, the subject never mentioned, which however will substantially guarantee, with advances, trusts and other financial instruments, the liquidity to pay salaries and living costs. I should like to conclude with one last remark: I do not want to add anything to the work that has been done in this House on issues that were not central to the measure (I am thinking of the one very much mentioned on the RAI, which is, however, an absolutely important point of convergence recovered within Parliament). In conclusion, I would like to stress the importance of territorial publishing, which is for us an indispensable democratic infrastructure, a true cultural garrison, a basic tool for promoting open and shared communities, capable of affirming territorial identities and peculiarities, especially with regard to reception and solidarity. It is not by chance that we have in mind local newspapers, weekly newspapers and even diocesan weekly newspapers that work not only on the news, but also on more detailed and articulated information. I understand that those who conceive information, even the institutional one, only within the Beppe Grillo blog, apart from it find nothing that is worthy of consideration and reliability, but this our territorial publishing absolutely must be supported and from now on it will be examined in the modern forms that this delegation promotes. I am voting in favour of the Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u26	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u27	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I believe in Article 21 of the Constitution, and I am absolutely convinced that, in order to guarantee freedom of information, there is and may be a need for a contribution from the State, to the point that, after the work we have done in the Commission and in this House, I have suggested to my Group an abstention vote. On the other hand, I will vote against this measure today, because if the attitude of the information world, which would be the beneficiary of these resources, is what it has held in these days of examination of the measure in this House or what emerges from what has been published today, I would not give a single euro to those who are always in the service of the commander-in-office. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I say this because I had tabled an amendment which would have excluded from the contributions those who had employees, managers or directors who exceeded the salary ceiling established for the public administration, i.e. the known EUR 240,000 per year. The opinion was favourable, the government called for it to be on the agenda or returned to the Assembly. After that, a number of calls were made to the members of this branch of Parliament by all those who would have seen the funding cut because they evidently exceeded the ceiling of EUR 240,000 per year. The hail of telephone calls has been so strong that the examination of an amendment has been postponed, which would have been approved and the reduction in funding has been reduced. Better than nothing. When I tabled the amendment on the ceiling of RAI salaries, the people who started making these calls already during the examination period in the Commission were many because, as has been mentioned, someone takes the triple or almost the salary ceiling. I have been told in the Commission that it cannot, it is not the seat, it has an agenda. That is how we came to this House. For intellectual honesty, I must acknowledge that Senator Cociancich had already expressed a sharing on the introduction of that roof since then. I have tabled eight amendments, in various forms, in order to be able to make sure that this rule was adopted. The will of the whole House of this branch of Parliament to introduce these roofs has clearly emerged, when, of course, a majority of people did not have this will. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] However, rather than putting a hat on it and having to suffer the opposition's decision, a trick has been used: an amendment of mine has been adopted and it has been placed in such a way that it is voted on earlier. Since I am not a fool and I am familiar with this House, casually, before the rapporteur's amendment was tabled, I reworded my amendment so that it was voted before the rapporteur's amendment and was exactly the same. That amendment was adopted with one abstention - and so for the first time there was a very strong will - and it was clear who was willing to put that roof and who was trying. Well, last night I watched the news and today I had the newspapers and we were talking only about the amendment by the rapporteur, Mr Cociancich (which I thank, for the love of Heaven, for having at least received the indications that came from the House), but there was no indication that the identical amendment, tabled and voted before, was the one signed by Calderoli. Maybe because the newspapers they were supposed to write are the ones who would lose their contributions and the news they talked about are the ones who will have the expense ceiling? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] My boys, I don't want to give the public contribution to the scoundrels! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In fact, you are clumsy and if there were a punishment in the world of information, a sanction for those who are biased, for those who fail to give some news or, worse still, try to influence the Members of Parliament (who must answer, because otherwise nobody publishes anything), I would inflict the penalty of life imprisonment. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to reiterate a concept that you have already taken up: Article 73 of the Constitution provides for the entry into force of a law to take place on the 15th day from the date of its publication. So let's be clear to everyone, "a good connoisseur a few words": we do not do as when the decree-law of 2014 fixed the roof to wages, after which we began to discuss it exactly a year later, in May 2015. This time we're not sending you to the RAI Supervisory Board, but we're sending the Carabinieri home! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u29	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u30	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I rise to announce and motivate a vote against, and I would also ask my colleagues to give a little thought to this type of legislation. We have been intervening for a long time in favour of sectors of enterprise which are in particular uncomfortable and I understand that. We have also often made motivated interventions in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises. In all these measures, interventions and the use of public money have precise goals to define the relationship between the use of this money and the aspect of salaries; we intervene, that is, favouring, for example, social shock absorbers or allowing that in the first two or three years a company can also be supported for the part of salaries. However, never in our laws - I think, for example, of interventions such as Law No 44 of 1986, which is of a distant past and can be historicized - intervenes by authorizing the fact that the public hand pays tout court salaries, and that for the simple reason that if a law is in support of a company, it is the corporate income that then pays wages. Why do we pay wages to the publishing industry? Because in this way we do not support the enterprise, we buy journalists and nominally. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That's the real problem. I therefore ask that there be a thought over time on this matter, also because I remind everyone that these interventions are children not of laws in support of the enterprise, but of laws in support of public funding to the parties, as President Gasparri rightly reminded us in his speech. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] A reflection on the liberal content of these interventions should perhaps be made, all together and with greater calm.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u33	COCIANCICH, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to express my thanks to the whole House, to the various Members who have spoken, and in particular to all those who have worked in the Commission on this measure. In particular, I would like to thank President Finocchiaro, who has made an absolutely decisive contribution to the progress of the draft law and, hoping not to forget anyone, all the colleagues who have repeatedly spoken in the Commission, namely Senators De Petris, Mazzoni, Bisinella, Bernini, Mancuso, Russo and Crimi. I would also like to thank Senator Calderoli, who I believe has made a very extraordinary contribution to the draft law that we are about to adopt, and I regret that today, for reasons of personal bitterness, he has decided to vote against it. Finally, I would like to express my thanks to the Undersecretary Giacomelli, who has always given great support and has been an always attentive interlocutor. I would like to conclude by making a clarification, since, during the last explanations of vote, a question has been raised concerning the effectiveness of the rule, which we approved yesterday with a unanimous vote (except for the abstention of a single Senator of the 5 Star Movement), concerning the ceiling for the remuneration of the Board of Directors and the RAI leadership. I was able to do a verification and the rule is immediately prescriptive and therefore, if it is confirmed by the House, it will apply immediately from the current board of directors. I think that this should be appreciated by all those who voted yesterday and it is an appropriate clarification to understand the scope of that vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u36	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u37	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 2271, in the amended text, with the following title: The establishment of the Fund for Plurality and Innovation of Information and Delegations to the Government to redefine the discipline of public support for the publishing and broadcasting sector, the discipline of pension profiles of journalists and the composition and competences of the National Council of the Order of Journalists. Procedure for granting public radio, television and multimedia services. (The vote was followed). We take note of Senator Tomaselli's vote in favour and we also record Senator Albertini's vote in favour. The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group]] Consequently, the draft law no. 282, 453, 454 and 1236.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u38	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2067, 2032 and 1844, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 176, 209, 286, 299, 381, 382, 384, 385, 386, 387, 389, 468, 581, 597, 609, 614, 700, 708, 709, 1008, 1113, 1456, 1587, 1681, 1682, 1683, 1684, 1693, 1713, 1824, 1905, 1921, 1922, 2103, 2295 and 2457. I would remind you that at the sitting of 3 August the rapporteur, Mr Cucca, gave the oral report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u41	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, as you teach me, I could have asked for a reversal of the agenda, but I will not do so and we will remain on the subject. (at 10.44 a.m.) (After CANDIANS). Madam President, I would like to call for a reply from the Government because, at 3 p.m. this afternoon, a meeting is scheduled for answers to questions and questions, which are presented in good quantities by all the groups. As is apparent from the proceedings, an urgent question was lodged at the session of 3 August, presented by the Lega Nord Group, but it does not appear among the acts of inspection union that will be dealt with in today's afternoon session, so it is not considered and will not be answered. I do not think it is necessary to recall Rule 156 of the Rules of Procedure, because it should be automatic to schedule an urgent questioning, so as to have within fifteen days a response from the Government. There was a suspension of the work for the summer break, but that interrogation had to find space in today's sitting. So, Madam President, I ask that through your person the Government be urged to give an urgent response.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u42	The Presidency will certainly do so. In the meantime, we will proceed with the checks and inspections in order to proceed in the sense indicated by you.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u45	CASSON (PD). Madam President, I would like to speak on the draft law on the reform of the penal code and the code of criminal procedure. At the last sitting before the interruption of work for the working period, only the report of the co-rapporteur, Senator Cucca, took place, subject to the presentation of the second report, which I should like to make today, on the resumption of work. This was also the agreement with President Grasso, so I believe that we must proceed in this direction and then move on to the next stages, as is also apparent from the shorthand report. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u46	In truth, the offices tell me - I have not verified it - that this does not appear from the Report. CASSON (PD). Just pick up the audio recording of that session. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In any case, even if it does not appear in the report, I believe that there is no difficulty in the fact that the second report takes place in this sitting. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Casson.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Since it was the last sitting before the closing of the session for the summer break, a first part of the report was presented which was necessarily summarized by Mr Cucca. We then presented a written and detailed technical report precisely because the reform is very broad and involves not only the criminal process, but also a whole series of substantive rules of the penal code, as well as a substantial part of the prison system. On the resumption of our work - and I would also say to return to the subject matter - I would like to express, albeit briefly, some of the fundamental issues highlighted both during the Commission's work and at the next stage and perhaps - at least in part - even now. In the Commission, as rapporteurs, we had tabled three basic amendments on very sensitive issues which I will quickly describe in relation to notifications, prescription and interception. I remember, starting with the subject of notifications, that it was a question of making a proposal to get out of what we had called the Middle Ages of notifications, almost still on horseback. The current Minister of Justice and the Ministry is certainly trying to get out of the current situation of notifications, using modern technological instruments, so much so that more and more we are talking about the telematic process, especially in the administrative field, the computerization of the civil process and the acts. Staying on notifications with the old system means sticking to an old past. At this stage of the debate, a number of amendments were tabled which put the issue before the senators, as agreed during the Commission's work, when the amendments tabled by the two rapporteurs had been withdrawn, precisely under these agreements, in order to bring them back in some way and form in this House. These are amendments in which, in summary, it is essentially proposed to use the concept of certified e-mail to eliminate most of the referrals and nullities that occur in the criminal proceedings. I remember how high the number of cancellations and referrals of the hearings of the criminal trial is, certainly, more than 50%, precisely because of the nullity of the notifications or notifications still gone empty. And that would help overcome that problem. There are two amendments, one referring to Article 17 and the other referring to Article 34, which, either in direct form or by delegation to the Government, propose to arrive at the new system of notifications. They can be discussed and integrated and, above all, a direct intervention can be envisaged, if the system of delegation of the forensic councils and of the council of the Order should be chosen, precisely in order to involve in the formation regulations one of the fundamental subjects of the criminal process like the representatives of the lawyers. The second topic is the prescription, from which we came out with a compromise voted in the Senate Justice Commission, which virtually proposes the solution of the House, with a substantial and procedural modification relating to the fixing of the times (eight months plus eighteen months between the appeal phase and the stage of the Cassation) to arrive at judgment. This is the solution proposed to the House by the Commission. From this solution - as you know - I have moved to the Commission and I will also move away from it here. But of course this is a limited part of the criminal process, on which I will propose a specific point, which I believe can be reconsidered and which concerns the limitation of processes, in particular those related to asbestos and the death of workers because of the violation of rules on safety and hygiene at work. I am now talking about it quickly, but when the amendment is tabled, I will go into detail. We all remember how and when the acquittals and dismissals occurred in the great processes for asbestos deaths (the Eternit plant in Casale Monferrato and a little 'all Italy), due to the course of time. We have all shouted at the scandal, even the institutional summits, precisely because, in a democracy like ours based on work, it is not acceptable for such injustices to occur. It is therefore proposed a path, with regard to the manslaughter caused by the violation of rules on safety and hygiene at work, which allows, only with regard to the initial phase, a different track, as already modulated with regard to - for example - crimes committed against children, that is, that time begins from the acquisition of the news of crime. We will certainly have the opportunity to discuss this and to explain the amendment in more detail. On the other hand, I would like to focus on another sensitive issue, the issue of interceptions, both because the Commission is proposing to the House to vote on a subject which Parliament has never discussed before (the so-called computer receivers) and because there is some intervention in the matter of interceptions, namely the matter of the deposit of the same and the disclosure of acts covered or not covered by diversified levels of secrecy. I am starting from the absolutely new issue, which concerns information technology. In recent years, I would say even in recent decades, computer technologies have become increasingly important in criminal investigations, investigations and investigations. The new Code of Criminal Procedure, which dates back to 1988, did not provide specific rules, not least because those technologies were still being trained. However, as early as 1993, in the face of the rapid spread of digital technologies, a new means of testing, i.e. the interception of computer and telematic communications, was introduced in Article 266-bis of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Subsequently, in 2008, by Law No 48, Parliament amended Article 244 of the Rite Code on cases and forms of extensions and added paragraph 1-a to Article 247 on cases and forms of searches. In that situation, in 2008, it was expressly provided for the possibility of experimenting with these means of testing also in relation to computer or telematic systems. On this subject, especially following the judgment of the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation of some time ago, legislative proposals have already been submitted to the Chamber and are about to be presented here to the Senate. But already in 2008, as for the search (appropriately, I must say), the legislator had foreseen that, at the same time, technical measures were taken to ensure the preservation of the original data and to prevent its alteration. Moreover, technological evolution, brought about by the development of electronics, has become the trigger of this evolution with which the justice system must also confront itself. First, it should be recalled that the transition from telecommunications to circuit communications, to packet switching communications (small data sequences containing, digitised, inter-subject communications) weakens the existence of a central point of communication where interception may be arranged, as it enables communication between personal communication devices either directly or with the sole signal made by systems outside national jurisdiction. Secondly, the development of personal communication devices with increasingly powerful microprocessors allows users to use data and voice traffic encryption applications that implement impenetrable mathematical cryptography functions, widely documented in scientific literature, making in some cases such communications inaccessible or almost. Therefore, for some years now there has been a need for remote data captures, including police and judicial investigations, or - according to a more inaccurate but widespread terminology - a sort of remote computer searches. By this term we mean the installation and use on the user's devices (may be mobile phones, tablets or computers), obviously unbeknownst to the user, of hidden software, so-called trojan horse, i.e. of Trojan horses for collecting evidence in investigations. This new investigative instrument is indispensable at today's date precisely for the contrast to some main forms of major organized crime, even transnational, that make systematic and elaborate use of these computer and telematic tools, otherwise able to frustrate the investigations of the Forces of the order and the judiciary. Therefore, reference is made to mob criminal associations, associations aimed at the trafficking of drugs and people and the cases - unfortunately more and more frequent in today's age - of international terrorism. It is clear, therefore, that on the one hand it is urgent to have this equipment at a distance, which, among other things, has been used for years and years also by the Forces of Order and the judiciary, but on the other hand this must absolutely take place in compliance with the constitutional guarantees, with a regulation that defines the eligibility criteria and the ways. A delegation is therefore given to the Government in this matter, precisely to regulate the situation. These are the rules governing the carrying out of so-called interceptive operations by means of a computer receiver. On this issue - I remember that an amendment had already been tabled by the Government to Decree-Law No. 7 of 2015 on counter-terrorism, which, however, had been blocked because there had not yet been sufficient definition of the appropriate constitutional guarantees - recently pronounced the criminal united sections of the Court of Cassation, which composed a jurisprudential conflict at the highest levels of the Supreme Court that had highlighted the urgency of a discipline able to adapt the right to reality, still unknown to the substantive code and the code of criminal law, the interception, especially environmental, through trojan horse. These technologies are likely, if not regulated, to leave no trace of the operations carried out, thus altering the genuineness of the evidence of the relative results and risk violating the limits of the authorization of the gip. In addition, once the trojan horse is inoculated into the host device, these software can carry out a plurality of operations, straight each from a specific discipline. I repeat that there is a need for legislation because, in fact, this can be done. Precisely for this reason, the legislator needs to deal with it and also urgently. The fact that a judgment of the United Chambers of the Supreme Court has already intervened shows that the investigations and criminal trials had arrived after so many years at the level of evaluation of the supreme jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of Cassation and, having not been solved by the legislator the problems at the base, that this had led to insanable conflicts making the intervention of the United Chambers necessary. There is a whole series of operations affected by this discipline, because we can talk about computer searches, geolocation, environmental, telephone and telematic interceptions, the acquisition of traffic data. The ubiquitous nature of such operations, conveyed by a software applied to a smartphone, risks circumventing the specific discipline enshrined in the code to protect the home sphere, imposing more restrictive requirements for interceptions carried out in places of private residence. This requires a discipline that, while not forbidding its use, which in any case has been carried out for a long time, fixed conditions, terms and guarantees to protect both the investigative requirements and the right of defence and the contradictory on the evidence and, therefore, also as protection of the right of the accused and the defence, as referred to in Article 24 of the Constitution. In compliance with that essential principle of proportionality between freedom and the need for justice, also recalled by the European Court of Justice in the Digital Rights judgment of 2014 and more recently by other European Constitutional Courts, such as the Portuguese one, and in particular, in the specific matter, by the German Constitutional Court, by judgment of 21 April 2016. In order not to delegate the material execution of such operations to private companies producing spy software, the proposed discipline allows its use only under the direct responsibility of the judicial authority and with the supervision of the judicial police, in strict compliance with the limits established in the authorization decree of the judge. It is also expected that in the places of private residence activation will be allowed only if criminal activity is taking place there, except for district or associative crimes, which are the most important - as I mentioned - in the area of organised crime or terrorism, even supranational. The last point I would like to mention, albeit briefly, is the subject of the transcription of interceptions. In the Justice Commission we held the hearings and the acquisition of documents produced by various prosecutors of the National Republic, documents then taken up also by the Supreme Council of the judiciary with measure of 29 July 2016. I remember this because it is clear that there are a number of rules in the current Code of Criminal Procedure, which have already allowed the judiciary and the Supreme Council of the judiciary to intervene in this area by trying to regulate the issue of the transcription of interceptions. Moreover, the intervention, which cannot be defined in the primary legal sense and therefore binding for all the judicial offices of the whole peninsula, requires that the legislator intervenes to specify the existing rules already within the code of criminal procedure, rules that already the Chamber of Deputies has provided, albeit in a way - in our opinion - too generic, and that we have wanted to clarify. This is reiterated in order to protect the confidentiality of the various parties involved in the proceedings, without prejudice, of course, to the information requirements of the public interest of the news. The main delegation criteria include the need for an appropriate selection by the prosecutor of the documents to be sent to the gip in support of the request for a precautionary measure, expunging the interceptions in non-usable, irrelevant or in any case related to third parties outside the investigation and containing sensitive data, provided that there is no evidence favourable to the suspect. Moreover, where there are no grounds for investigation, the activation of the procedure for the removal of such interceptions should result before the notice of closure of the preliminary investigations, thus anticipating the time of selection of the evidence, in order to guarantee greater confidentiality to the parties and, in particular, to third parties. It is also important to indicate to the judicial police that they do not transcribe irrelevant or unusable interceptions and containing sensitive data, including only date and time, in order to allow the party who has any interest in requesting access to them and not a copy, in full respect of the right of defence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Casson, I invite you to conclude. CASSON. rapporteur. I'm gonna finish. These indications make it possible to limit significantly the entry into the process file of personal data not strictly relevant to the crime in question, relating to third parties or in any case of which one can do without, without causing any harm to the investigation. In addition, there is a selection that, while covering all the procedural stages in which they take over the interceptions, from the hoax to the acquisition, owes the final decision to the judge in the contradictory of the parties. These forecasts are also related to the guiding principle of regulating the advertising regime of such investigative acts, in full compliance with the jurisprudence of the European Court, which has had the opportunity to decline the right of information and the right to information as a prerequisite for democratic regimes, to be countered by investigative secrecy, the confidentiality of parties and third parties and the presumption of innocence, without being able to affect the essential core.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u50	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I have a question for a preliminary ruling. We decided not to present it, because - as the Minister already knows - we cooperated during the examination of the bill, considering it necessary to reform the criminal process (on the criminal system, in general). And our contribution has been translated into 28 amendments adopted in the Commission, and we have tabled a few amendments in this House as well. However, the irrationality of the sanctioning system must be denounced and, therefore, I hope that the Minister and the majority will wish to reflect on the system of crimes against property. In particular, the Minister will recall that we have pointed out that the calculation of mitigating and aggravating circumstances provided for in the draft reform law has negative consequences even in the case of the simple theft, not to mention the aggravated robbery, with two aggravating factors leading to a penalty below the current one. We have not tabled any amendments, and we turn to the majority, who will assume the responsibility of voting on the measure and these parties. I hope that there will be a reflection on them and, on the basis of an initiative - I hope - of the rapporteurs or of corrections that the Minister wishes to present, there will be an opportunity to share the position of the majority. Minister, I still hope that there will be an agreement between the majority and the government, since for the first time we are witnessing a duplicity of rapporteurs who have different positions to the point that one of the two amend ments rejected in the Commission with the Government's opinion against it. We will therefore have to take into account the position of the majority or the government. But let me just mention this, because I want to call the majority's responsibility for what I am saying. Apart from the problem of the irrationality of the sanctioning system, there is the other aspect that denounces a series of unconstitutionality. I am referring to the increase in limitation periods. Minister, I have always very much appreciated your correctness in communicating the true data to the Commission and the citizens. In our country, after the 2005 Cirielli law, the number of prescribed crimes has been halved (there are less than half of those who were). Simply consult on the website of the Ministry of Justice the table for all the years that shows that, from year to year, there is a decrease in the prescription. The system proposed by this reform runs counter to Article 111 of the Constitution, with the principle of reasonable duration of the process. It is not possible to think that they spend years before reaching a final decision. In addition to the unconstitutional nature of the conflict with Article 111, there is unreasonableness with regard to crimes against public administration. Minister, you know better than I that a year ago we voted - we also contributed - the increase in penalties exponentially for crimes against the public administration, which led to an increase in the limitation period. At the same time, two suspensions are introduced in this reform, after the judgment of first and second instance and, therefore, we increase by a further three years. Moreover, for crimes against the public administration, instead of increasing the time required for the prescription by a third, it increases by half, and this means having a further increase from three to seven years. Finally, we have all voted on the amendment setting out a privileged lane for crimes against public administration. And here emerges the irrationalness of having caused an increase in penalty after guaranteeing a preferential lane. Probably the justiceism of the rapporteur Casson also leads us to think that it is right that a citizen can remain thirty or forty years exposed to the possibility of the use of even instrumental news of crime. Senator Casson will recall that disciplinary action for magistrates was not subject to a period of decadence or limitation and I beat myself at the time for a period of decadence to be inserted. It happened that, after thirty years, one could use a behavior of thirty years before to be able to affect any competitions within the judiciary. And now we'd like to transport to the country the possibility that prosecutors will acquire the news twenty years later. Minister, I already know that you have expressed your opposition to the Commission, and I hope that you will do the same in this House with regard to the new amendments, but there is a problem. It is not a question of justiceism or guaranteeing, but it is a question of identifying ourselves in the values of our country, in the values of the Constitution. If the Constitution tells us that a person cannot be exposed for long in criminal proceedings, if there is a guarantee of the reasonable duration of the trial, one cannot, in order to make a commercial, transform the rights into a non-respect of the person, even in contrast to Article 2 of the Constitution. The values we are inspired by are those of our constituent Fathers. And not only that: beware that the prescription does not go back to the Constitution, but to the night of the times, because there is a reason why the State no longer has to intervene when a certain period of time passes and therefore there can be no unreasonable lengthening. Any amendments tabled by the rapporteur would even run counter to the general system of our country. For these reasons, Madam President, I would like to make a constitutional reference, both from the point of view of the irrationality of the sanctioning system and from the point of view of the conflict with Article 111 of the Constitution, the rules on the prescription and the irrationality of those concerning crimes against public administration. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u51	I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, no more than one representative per group may speak during the debate on the question referred for a preliminary ruling for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u54	FALANGA (AL-A). Madam President, Minister, Senator Caliendo raised a question of prejudice and pointed out the unconstitutional nature of the reform under consideration. I would allow myself to add some more that, to be honest, seems much more serious to me. First of all, we have a clear violation, already in Article 1 of the reform, when it is foreseen that compensation for the damage, even if for crimes that can be prosecuted, will result in the end of the crime. This provision - in my opinion - violates the principle of Article 3 of the Constitution, and this reminds me a bit of a rule of the law of the XII tables - I do not know, Minister, if you remind them - of the Roman era: when a subject amputated a limb of another subject, if he did not reach an agreement with him, he proceeded with the rule of taglone. I would like to quote you from this rule: 'Si membrum rupsit, ni cum eo pacif, talio esto'. That is, if you have the money and you restore the damage, the process is extinguished; if you don't have the money and you can't compensate for the damage, you have to be tried. It seems to me that Article 1 is already unconstitutional, because it is contrary to Article 3 of the Constitution. But the most compelling point that - in my opinion - makes the unconstitutionality of the measure in an even more striking form is the system of delegations. The Government is delegated to adopt changes in the matter of interceptions. Well, that is certainly a blank rule, and there is no indication that the Government must comply with the rewording of the wiretapping provisions. Articles 29 and 30 of the measure should also be taken into account in the matter of enforcement. The first intervenes on the modification of the penitentiary order: this Parliament tells the Government to reform the penitentiary order. How? With what limits? With what guidelines? None. They're all blank rules. You see, Minister, I regret to legislate in this way because when these rules are declared unconstitutional by the Court, I will feel somewhat responsible. That is why I wanted to intervene immediately, to make my contribution, to tell you to be careful: let us try to avoid mistakes of this kind because then the responsibility does not fall only on your person. You know well, Minister, how much I esteem you; at least listen to me when I say that I esteem you - and not a little - Minister, at least when I make you this confession of my feelings and emotions. I value you very much, Minister, and - believe me - I do it for you. It is precisely because I value it, I ask you: why should your reform, which you wanted, then be torn apart by the Court for obvious profiles of unconstitutionality? The rapporteur, Mr Casson, spoke to us in his report about all the changes in the telematic process. In fact, on the points I mentioned, I would have expected a report by the authoritative rapporteur, Mr Casson, rather than on the new technology systems that are being introduced into the process, with the hope - in vain - of speeding up the process. You know better than I do, Minister, that then these technologies to be implemented need resources, and we know that we do not have them. Already in the civil trial, if you go around the courts - and you do - you will see that when an attorney submits an application, before you end up on the judge's portal you need it: the chancellors say they didn't have time to work because there is no staff who can work to make these systems really effective and lack the economic means to provide the judicial offices of these instruments. Senator Casson gave a nice speech; it seemed to me that he recited a beautiful fairy tale: a process that was going to take place in a short time due to these new techniques. To conclude, I attach myself to the exception and to the remarks made by Senator Caliendo, because when you think that there is a need to extend and extend further the term of the prescription of certain crimes, even if they are as hateful as those against public administration, in fact certified that our country is not able to give a response of justice in a twenty-year period, Minister. At the moment when you ask for the extension of the prescribed term means that you are saying that you are not able to give the citizen a justice response of the three degrees of judgment. You are certifying the clear violation of Article 111 of the Constitution. I can understand that a constitutional principle is consumed by a private individual, by a company, by a company, but not by a government that violates the constitutional principle that he himself wanted (and by Government, Minister, I also mean those that preceded his). At this point, if you put together the elements and comments that I have allowed you to point out, Minister, you will have to realize that there is, whether it likes it or not, unconstitutionality. Our position, which you know well, is of collaboration; I had allowed myself to point out some tools to avoid at least this last profile, but, although accepted, it did not help to avoid this technique of lengthening the terms of the prescription. Minister, for these reasons we share Senator Caliendo's observations and reaffirm our adherence to the question of constitutionality he has raised. From here at some time I will enter into the substance of the provision (because we already know that the preliminary questions will be rejected: the majority is deaf, does not reason, does not interpret our contribution adequately, sees it as something that wants to hinder the legislative process of the measure under consideration) and I will allow myself to point out some further anomaly, some further technical error that the majority and herself, Minister, have put in place with the draft law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u57	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I would also like to draw attention to a fundamental aspect of this reform, partly because it concerns one of the most important issues in the country and in the newspapers, namely the phenomenon of corruption, concussion, crimes against the public administration and, of course, the remedies to be put in place to deal with them. Already at the time of the Monti Government there was a discussion in the Justice Commission when certain measures were introduced into our legal system, some of which were recently "cut apart" by Dr. Cantone. Then I emphasized that the idea of making 8,000 anti-corruption plans, that is, one for every Italian municipality, and of naming in everyone an official against corruption that would respond personally if there were a case of corruption with the suspension of his office etc., seemed to me the usual paper ludo that did not serve anything. Four years later, Dr. Cantone told us that not all the municipalities made plans and that those who made them made them in a bureaucratic way: they wrote rules that remain in the drawer, that are of no use at all but to determine an increase in spending. Moreover, with that Government we have also increased the penalties for crimes against the public administration and we have done so because - alas - this total, huge, gigantic hoax has circulated, according to which every year in Italy we spend 60 billion euros in corruption. Whoever divided this amount for the hundred Italian Provinces discovers that according to this advertising (which destroyed us all over the world) in every Italian Province, including Isernia, every year would turn 600 million euros of bribes; perhaps they confused the 60 billion of public spending with bribes. However, on the basis of this insistent propaganda it is clear that the problem would be unsolved, because if it were so 60 million Italians would be corrupt, including those who should fight corruption, including the carabinieri, the financiers and the magistrates. This is the message that has passed away. You then know that it has been established that these figures and statistics for which 20-30 percent of Italians would have been approached to be concussed or corrupt are opinion polls, indicate the perceived corruption when you go to ask the citizens bombarded by this kind of message what they think is the phenomenon of corruption in Italy. Therefore, there are certainly European countries much more corrupt than ours and when you make the rankings according to which Italy turns out to sixty or seventieth place - that is a disaster - in the index of perception of corruption; everything happens on the basis of virtual surveys: they are all virtual messages built on the basis of opinion polls. However, then, the measures of the Monti Government that should have been decisive (and thus have been advertised) introduced these bureaucratic rules which, translated into practice, mean that the constraints, procedures, the passages already in progress that make our public administration difficult were added to another. Of course, Ostellan and many other observers have said and repeated - and I am of this school - along with the Nordic magistrate who, as in the Soviet Union, the more the controls and the people through whom it is necessary to pass to obtain a right are increased, the more the problems of corruption or "oiling" of procedures are lurking. We then followed this path with Monti, increasing even more controls and adding also the official anti-corruption in every municipality. We also increased the penalties after that, a year and a half ago (since the penal code should be an instrument that has its own continuity and logic), after having done the Manzoni screams with Monti, we decided to increase the penalties again. In the face of the phenomenon of corruption, as has been described, as Parliament we have again increased the penalties for certain crimes against the public administration. Today we arrive in the Chamber and, not only do we increase the penalties, but, through the combined arrangement of the increase in penalties and the prescription, we come to propose - and I will tell you what happens practically in Italy - that, on the basis of the increased penalties, we immediately take protective custody: while the suspect is put in prison. We are then authorising the State, after the suspect has been imprisoned and has been subjected to protective custody, to take even thirty years - heard, fellow senators and citizens - to determine whether that person is guilty or innocent. In the Commission it has been emphasized of course - and unfortunately the reality of Italy today - that the penalties for the crimes of corruption, for acts contrary or committed in the exercise of the functions by an official (corruption in judicial acts, undue induction, corruption of persons in charge of public service, aggravated scam, concussion, flawed, induction and so on), that is for a whole series of crimes. However - and alas it is chronic daily - when the investigation starts with the wrong foot and the protective custody, as unfortunately often happens, it is unjustified because from a deepening of the investigation it is found that there is no responsibility, the process is lost in nothing. I could make dozens of names of colleagues, mayors and councillors of all parties who had the sad surprise to be imprisoned, to suffer the shame of custody and to have had to use the following years for a desperate fight to get to the trial, that is, to get tried and close that judicial ordeal with a sentence that would absolve them. But the bigger and macroscopic the initial error, the more the tendency is not to do the trials, because the process would demonstrate the initial error and the cantonades taken by the magistrates. In a civilized country, then, what happens? Did we increase our pains? All right. Have we increased our pains again? Perfect. These are absolutely serious crimes, which must be prosecuted for what they are, not with this publicity of 60 million corrupt Italians, so they would all be corrupt, all criminals, all thieves and all scoundrels. Criminals must be prosecuted, but in a civilized state this is done by instructing a trial in a reasonable time. As Senator Caliendo explained, the Ministry of Justice has provided us with statistics for which in Italy, due to the effect of the legislation Cirielli, the prescriptions have collapsed and not increased. We have reached a half of the prescriptions and for the crimes against the public administration that we are rarely talking about takes the prescription, except many times for the phenomenon that I referred to earlier, that is because they are the same magistrates who do not want to make the trial for obvious reasons. I was the protagonist of an appropriation of 12 million euros for the earthquake of L'Aquila, made available by the Department for Family Policies to carry out kindergartens, schools and so on. To my great surprise they were arrested two people six years ago, because they would have to cheat myself and the government. No one ever called me to ask me how I could be conned, not even as a person aware of the facts. Almost six years have passed (five and a half years): one of them died of cancer and the other, arrested, after six years is still waiting for the first degree trial, because the thing was so devoid of any justification that clearly everything is lost in nothing, except economic ruin. One of us also lost our lives, perhaps, with a tumor that was born of this concern. There are professionals who are ruined because they are not able to do the processes; therefore some of the prescriptions are due to this phenomenon. Colleagues senators, so we want to bring the prescription to twenty, twenty-five or thirty years? But it makes sense for someone to be convicted or acquitted after 30 years... Please conclude, Senator Giovanardi. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). I shall conclude, Madam President. Does it make sense that the state officially, with a law, takes half a life? If a person is indicted at the age of thirty he risks taking more than half of his life, because he is constantly under trial, while the State is unable to establish, within a reasonable period of ten or twelve years, whether he is guilty or innocent. This really seems to me to be a barbaric system and I therefore wholeheartedly support this kind of reference. [[Senator Airola's comments at Senator Giovanardi's address]] AIROLA (M5S). You're the one who made an unconstitutional law! Shame on you! You made an unconstitutional law and you knew it! [[Comments from Senators Giovanardi and Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u58	Senator Airola, I'll call you back.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u61	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, we have listened to the reasons for supporting the question referred for a preliminary ruling. Although we - and this will be clear in the course of the proceedings - have a great deal of perplexity and total opposition to the text that we are about to examine, we cannot agree to the same reasons. Moreover, I was particularly impressed by Mr Falanga's intervention, who complained that doubling the prescribed terms for crimes against the public administration would be a defeat of the State. Obviously, he has forgotten that similar provisions are already present today - and for some time now - in our penal code: Article 157, sixth paragraph, provides for the doubling of the prescribed terms for a number of offences, for which there is obviously not the same sensitivity. [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] I don't want to be interrupted by Senator Giovanardi.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u62	Colleagues, I would also ask colleagues standing in the Chamber the courtesy of not disturbing the speaker: Senator Caliendo, Senator Naccarato.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u63	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Thank you, Madam President. I was saying that there is not the same sensitivity as there is to the crimes of so-called white collars. Let us remember that, for the fire and the manslaughter, as for the railway disaster, for the manslaughter, ill-treatment in the family, sexual violence, sexual acts with minors, corruption of minors, group sexual violence and also other crimes, already today it is arranged that the prescribed terms have doubled compared to those provided for in the preceding paragraphs of the same Article 157. Therefore, by virtue of these reasons, the 5 Star Movement Group, while adhering to an opposition in the principles with regard to many parts of the text referred to in the bill n. 2067 and related, will not be able to vote favorably to the aforementioned question and will express a vote of abstention. [[Applause from Senator Mangili.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u66	CASSON, Rapporteur. Madam President, the issues that have been touched upon and presented as prejudging constitutional legitimacy have essentially to do with the substance of the issue of the rules that we have to deal with and with absolutely no profile of constitutional legitimacy. Indeed, this bill tends to create a greater balance in the relationships of the penalties provided for one crime rather than another and to find a balance between the minimums and the maximums within the various cases of crime. If we dispute its content, this will have to do with merit and we will have ample time and ample opportunity to discuss it. The same with regard to the reference to the reasonable duration of the process and to the prescription: they are two completely different themes, which have absolutely nothing to do with each other. Again, I recall that exceptions to the limitation periods for all offences are already peacefully provided for in the procedural system. Just think of the serious crimes, for which it is foreseen to be unsubscribe, and the fact that crimes against children are expected to take place differently. This means that we must respect the fundamental principles of proportionality and reasonable punishment and treatment, not other criteria that relate to different aspects of the process. With this draft law voted in the Commission we have proposed an improvement of the substantive penal system, the procedural system and the prison system. Obviously there may be disputes, there will be discussions, but this has to do with merit, not with profiles of constitutional legitimacy.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u67	We shall now proceed to the vote on the question referred by Senator Caliendo.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u68	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u69	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 11.41 a.m. and resumed at 12:01 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u70	The session is resumed. I put to the vote the question referred by Senator Caliendo. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I did not hear you say that the sitting was resumed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Palma, we are now in the process of voting. However, I said that the sitting was resumed and that the question referred for a preliminary ruling was put to the vote. GIARRUSSO (M5S). He didn't say! [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] You can't do that! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giarrusso, sit down and shut up! And don't take a stand against the Presidency until you have the floor. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] Before continuing in this debate, I would point out that there is no repetition of the verification of the quorum at the time of the resumption of the proceedings; I have taken up the point where we had interrupted ourselves, namely the vote. If the senators do not realize, the problem is not the Presidency's. [[Senator Giarrusso's lively comments]] I therefore put to the vote the question referred by Senator Caliendo. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We're voting, Senator Caliendo. When the vote is taken, the principle also... [[Senator Caliendo's comments.]] We are voting, which is done by show of hands. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Who is favorable, raise your hand. GIARRUSSO (M5S). Shame on you! AIROLA (M5S). Don't raise your hand, accomplices! You can't do that! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I shall cancel the vote. AIROLA (M5S). We have already seen the confidence on Italicum and continue!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u73	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I do not understand. Wasn't there a vote? Right? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I had to cancel it for the protests of this House. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, what is the reason for our complaint? You stated that you resumed the sitting and immediately proceeded to the vote, not allowing us, who intended to request a quorum, to be able to do so. Now you say, but it's probably something that contradicts my lack of knowledge, that you can't ask for a quorum check. I believe that this, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, is incorrect and if you had not moved very quickly from the resumption of the sitting to the opening of the vote, it would have given us time, very discreetly (or, as Senator Santangelo says, "kindly" to request the verification of the quorum." This is something we would have done, because it would not have really made sense, politically speaking, for Senator D'Alì to ask for a quorum if he could not repeat this request. Therefore, Madam President, I would ask you to check the quorum and add, using the hashtags dear to the Democratic Party: "#state serene, because now the quorum is there and so now there will be a purely formal verification."
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u74	Senator Falanga, considering that rational... [[Ironic comments from the M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]] Excuse me, Senator Palma, I confused you with Senator Falanga and I apologize a lot, she's my defalant. [[Laughter]] Colleagues, I understand the ironic reaction. Senator Nitto Palma, I'm sorry, maybe some of my colleagues thought he'd get hurt. I would like to tell you that it is not irrational, that I no longer see Senator D'Alì in this House. AIROLA (M5S). What's that got to do with anything? PRESIDENT. - The debate is To say that, having requested it, it was not automatic the repetition of the request. That being said, I want to make this clear. From a regulatory point of view, after the absence of a quorum, the sitting will resume from the moment it has been interrupted and, therefore, the question referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling will be put to the vote. If the senators have an inadequate reaction rate, I'll take note of that. [[Comments by Senators Caliendo, Malan and Palma.]] Next time we'll go slower and adjust to the speed of reaction.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u75	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]] I therefore suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 12.07 a.m. and resumed at 12.27 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u76	The session is resumed. I'm begging colleagues to take their seats. We shall now proceed to the vote on the question referred by Senator Caliendo.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u77	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u78	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. Appreciate the circumstances, the measure under consideration is postponed to a forthcoming sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u81	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am speaking for the sake of clarity, because the way you have put this issue, the next sitting will be that of this afternoon, beginning at 3 p.m. I understand, and you confirm that?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u82	No, I'm correct. I wanted to refer to the next sitting in accordance with the timetable: next week's sitting in which it is scheduled to be dealt with. Thank you for your clarification. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u83	I'm asking you to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. [[Brusio.]] Colleagues, if you would like to leave the Chamber please do so in silence. Madam President, I rise because this morning, from the pages of a Milanese newspaper, Don Gino Rigoldi has again - he had already done so and we have done it in several in recent weeks - raised a worrying alarm about the situation of the Beccaria Institute in Milan, of which Don Gino has been the chaplain for over thirty years. In these years Beccaria has always been considered a positive model among the child detention institutions for the many educational, cultural, training and work activities it proposed, and for the opening to the territory guaranteed by many projects carried out with some schools. In recent months, as Fr Gino denounced, the situation has rapidly deteriorated. Many activities have been closed due to lack of funds; the failure to appoint a director and the head of the custody officers has fueled uncertainties and the summer months, in which school activities have also been lacking, have been difficult for operators and children; times of inactivity have often fueled tensions. Added to this is the inadequacy of the spaces in which minors live, which had to be resolved by the restructuring of an entire wing. The restructuring took place and completed, but the wing cannot be used because it did not have the agibilità. Faced with this situation that risks compromising the quality levels for operators and young people, and risks frustrating the excellent work done in recent years, I believe that the Ministry and the competent department must intervene as soon as possible to appoint the top managers of the institute and the custody agents, and to verify what are the impediments to the opening of the new renovated spaces to remove them promptly. It is also a matter of giving new impetus to the opening up to the territory in order to promote educational and training work, and in this sense the opportunity that could constitute the opening to the outside of the theatre, just renovated thanks to the intervention of many cultural institutions, must be taken without further delay. I would ask the Presidency to be an interpreter of this requirement at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u84	No doubt the matter will be reported to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u87	BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I have been trying too hard for too long to put the social disaster in the world of work to the attention of all of you and this House. Unfortunately, the policies of this government not only ignore anything, but go in another direction. Last night, in Piacenza, a worker, father of five children, lost his life while he was manifesting. I think that we cannot die in this way: we cannot lose our lives to defend the rights and the work that - I remind everyone - is provided for in our Constitution. If this happens - as unfortunately happens - we should all ask ourselves here, because it is clear that there is a failure of politics. I believe that leaving the workers alone, our people, in front of ever greater economic monsters, with immense power, is not good for politics, for workers and for our country. I believe that the history of this country has said more: it has shown that you can do important things when you are close to people and workers, and you have to do it humbly. I think we should all apologize to the world of work, to this worker who died like many others. I do not know if everyone agrees with me: I, in my little one, do so and apologise on my own behalf and on behalf of my Group. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, PD]] , Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE) and M5S and Senator Pelino).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u88	The Presidency is associated with the mourning and penalty for the death of this worker and is close to the family. Everyone will then continue their efforts to prevent this kind of thing from happening again.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-679.ana.u89	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 3 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.33 p.m.
