ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u4	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u9	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, this speech is intended to call for the presence of the Minister of Defence Pinotti and the Foreign Minister Gentiloni to report on the events affecting Libya. These are facts which we have learned through the media and it is essential that Parliament be immediately informed of any Italian participation in a mission in that country. Another reason, which has not even been discussed in Parliament, is the presence in Iraq of a private company which will have to monitor the Mosul dam. We demand that Parliament be sovereign in the choices of this nation and that no news be given by Foreign Ministers or the defence of foreign countries. I believe that we can, once and for all, say enough that foreign and defence policy in this country is done by the United States of America, and I therefore strongly ask that the two Ministers together, either one or the other, come as soon as possible to clarify these facts in this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Santangelo, we will send your reminder and verify the availability and the location to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u10	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2081, 14, 197, 239, 314, 909, 1211, 1231, 1316, 1360, 1745, 1763, 2069 and 2084.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us, which aims to overcome an anachronistic legislative vacuum, is based not on the creation of new rights, but on the recognition of that plurality of inviolable rights which already receive insuperable protection in our constitutional order under the fundamental principles laid down in Articles 1 to 12 of the Constitution. Article 2, in fact, protects the individual in an inviolable way in all those fundamental rights that cling to his being. This means that, according to the constituent Fathers, the human being has the natural ownership of a nucleus of inviolable rights by any other individual, the State and any public and private order. History, science and even all religions show us that among these rights there is above all that of good, affection and feelings aimed at others. The State cannot expropriate, even at constitutional level, the individual of this fundamental right, which he enjoys within any social formation, because it falls within the sphere of fundamental individual rights. The legislator is therefore not allowed to undermine this foundation of our democracy by introducing limits and boundaries to these rights because of gender membership. There is no reason to exclude from the beehive of Article 2 a nucleus consisting of several individuals, including minors, according to their affective choice. Otherwise, individual rights would be violated. Our Constitution, in Article 3, recognizes equal dignity to all rights, establishing equality of all citizens without distinction of race, language and gender. Therefore, to establish a different protection of the social core on the basis of the gender membership of its members would create unreasonable discrimination - and in fact creates it - because it disrespects a fundamental right of the uncompressable individual. Today we are also called to deal with the duties of the Republic towards this same individual and the social formations in which it operates, as stated in Article 3, paragraph 2, of the Constitution. The Republic must realize an effective solidarity that allows everyone the complete development of their lives in all individual and social expressions. The constitutional obligation of solidarity, the expression of the right to substantial equality, therefore requires us to finally adopt legislation that recognises equal rights and also removes the odious difference of rights based on the choices of one's affective personality. It is not possible to discriminate against a person who loves and even more penalising would cause such inequality to fall on the children who are the result of such sentimental choices. Therefore, I find it unacceptable that the legislator has not yet had the courage to regulate the right to continuity and permanence of an affection, making this legal vacuum pay, especially for minors, because of ideological prejudices often bent on political reasons. Today we have a duty to take responsibility for a choice: to regulate an existing reality and to fill a legislative vacuum. With regard to the concern of a possible equivalence with the institution of marriage, it should be noted that every civil union is a family, that is, a natural society protected by the Constitution, even if not based on marriage, as stated in Article 29. In this regard, I would remind you that the Constitution is above the same civil code and that, as has already been pointed out, it is interpreted on the basis of the principle of equality. The draft law on civil unions under consideration is a balanced text. We avoid downward upheavals in terms of the extension of rights, which would also harm the children themselves. We avoid pretentious arguments such as that of gestation for others, prohibited, as has been said, by Law No 40 of 2004 and in no way present in the provision. As I come to the conclusion, I therefore hope that no one will escape the importance of this opportunity which, if it were wasted, would lead to the perpetuation of a situation of discrimination and injustice to the detriment of even so many children involved, an action that cannot be justified by any ideological, political or religious call. We are in fact faced with a great issue of equality, not a secondary and elitist matter; a great issue of equality which excludes everything from being negotiable for reasons of political opportunity, because exposing the guarantee of fundamental rights to political compromise means relegating it to the level of our democratic holding. I listened carefully yesterday to Senator Nitto Palma's speech and I cannot help but stress how impressed I was by the passage on the behaviour of my party on the subject of short and direct divorce, for example. Coherence in politics pays: here it is the assumption of responsibility by a ruling class that not only considers itself to be such, but has a duty to choose, in order to get out of the hypocrisy of thinking that society is what each of us would want and not what it really is. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u12	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the text before us is a consequence of radical changes in the parental structure. In fact, the debates about gay marriage, the conditions for adoption and possible access to reproductive technology are the result of the attractive idea based on the possibility of living according to an individual choice, apparently without limits. This is the so-called gender ideology, which is proposed as a passage from sexual duality (the male or female man being) to the concept of gender, an open term that abandons the sexual bipolarity of human beings, proposing five genera: masculine, feminine, hermaphrodite, homosexual, transsexual. The proponents of this theory argue that the differences between men and women are the product of specific cultures and epochs and that it is the sociocultural environment that assigns people their sexual identity. It would not be a natural, stable and biologically determined fact. In fact, there is no longer any mention of male and female sex, but of gender, imposing it as a changing fact, as a fluid social role, dependent on culture, society, but even more on one's own individual choice and sensitivity. Femininity and masculinity would be nothing more than induced cultural constructions. There are no women and men, there are only neutral identities that can decide, even several times in the course of life, the sexual identity to be assumed. And not only that: the last frontier seems to be the genderqueer, that is the claim of the freedom not to identify with any kind or with more genres at the same time or later. At this point it is spontaneous to wonder why this violence against human nature. The roots of this battle and gender theory find their sap in political and philosophical currents that accuse human anthropological duality (man-woman) of being the cause and origin of human unhappiness. We should get rid of all the differences, therefore also those between man and woman, in order to establish an authentic equality between human beings and be so free and happy. Gender ideology was born to translate this thought operationally: the equality of male and female genders. We want to overcome the heterosexuality that is required for the creation of a new man, to whom we must recognize the freedom to choose all of himself, the freedom to give vent to his sexual identity, regardless of his nature, his biologically defined sexuality. If double sexuality is abandoned as an ontological parameter of man, any sexual deviation from heterosexuality should be understood as normal. At the moment we are still talking about gay, lesbian, bisexual and transsexual, but once normalized these deviations will present other scenarios and we will be forced to accept pedophilia and polygamy. We are not born people and then take on sexuality, but we are male or female from the moment of conception. We are from the genetic point of view and since conception all human cells, which contain X and Y chromosomes, are different from those of the woman, which contain all X and X chromosomes. The genetic sex involves a whole series of hormonal and anatomical modifications, which means that every single cell in the human body is either male or female. It is therefore possible to affirm, on empirical and scientific grounds, that sexual difference exists in nature and that it is not the result of a fictitious and arbitrary cultural construction. It is precisely the sexual differences present in individuals that allow us to distinguish the female reality from the male one. Duality between the sexes is a natural fact, dear President, it is one of the fundamental data of the human being and no egalitarian current will be able to ignore it. Sexual duality, contrary to what gender ideology suggests, does not at all contradict the fundamental equality between the two sexes. A man and a woman share the same human nature. Even psychological differences can not be completely canceled or attributed to sociocultural influences. It is not culture that alone constitutes the different psychology between man and woman. We must defend an anthropological model that enhances the complementarity of the sexes, capable of explaining that the distinction between man and woman is not a fictitious label against sexual neutrality imposed by gender ideology, which does not free the individual, but degrades him. The attempts to spread gender culture are taking place mainly in schools, on the basis of what is enshrined in the law against gender violence which, among its folds, contains the possibility for teachers to educate pupils in gender culture, through textbooks prepared for this purpose, since childhood school. This strategy has been reinforced by the approval of paragraph 16 of Law 107 of 2015, better known as that of good school, which reaffirms the same principles. It is very active in the propaganda of gender theory the National Anti-Racial Discrimination Office, a governmental body established within the Department of Equal Opportunities at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, which approved, in 2013, the document called National Strategy for the Prevention and Combating Discrimination, based on sexual orientation and gender identity, or guidelines for the application of the principles contained in the recommendations of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, aimed at combating discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity. This document includes, in particular, a specific strategic point (Education and Education Axis) to spread gender theory in schools, through initiatives aimed at pupils and teachers, in order to develop the process of accepting their sexual orientation and gender identity. Those measures shall include the provision of objective information on sexual orientation and gender identity. The document expressly envisages, among other things, the strategic objective of expanding the knowledge and skills of all the actors of the school community on LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender) issues, to ensure a safe and gay friendly school environment, to promote the empowerment of LGBT people in schools, both among teachers and among pupils, as well as to contribute to knowledge of new family realities and to overcome the prejudice linked to the emotional orientation of parents in order to avoid discrimination against children of homosexual parents, through a number of points, including the enhancement of the expertise of LGBT associations in training, the involvement of regional and provincial school offices on diversity management for teachers, the preparation of administrative and didactic school modules in social inclusion, the accreditation of LGBT associations at the Ministry of Education of University and Research and, not least, the enrichment of training offerings with the preparation of LGBT themes. The same document also provides for the creation of innovative training and refresher courses for managers, teachers and pupils on anti-discrimination subjects, with a particular focus on LGBT, on the development of sexual identity in the teenager, on emotional-sexual education, on knowledge of new family realities and that this training should be directed not only to the teaching staff and students (with recognition for both of educational credits) but also to all non-teaching staff in the school (administrative staff and school collaborators). Such initiatives, dear President, are aimed at a single objective, which is to expropriate by hand the family, a privileged and natural field of education, which has the task of training in the sexual field, disowning the fact that the same family represents the most suitable environment to fulfil the obligation to ensure a gradual education of sexual life, in a prudent, harmonious and without particular trauma. They are in clear violation of the fundamental right recognised, guaranteed and protected by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Article 26 and Article 30 of the Italian Constitution give parents the right of priority in the choice of education to be given to their children and guarantee and protect the right of parents to educate their children. These initiatives have been taken by failing to consult all the social partners concerned, thereby violating the principle enshrined in the same document. No family association or professional association of teachers was involved; on the other hand, twenty-nine LGBT associations participated in the working group. The right of parents to educational co-responsibility, provided for by the Guidelines on Parental Participation and Educational Co-responsibility, was not taken into account by the Ministry of Education of the University and Research, which participated in the interinstitutional coordination table specifically activated for the drafting of the document called National Strategy for the prevention and combating of discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. We of the Lega Nord Group have strong doubts about the promise made by Minister Giannini, then followed by a special circular, to strengthen and generalize the informed consent of the parents regarding the extracurricular activities introduced by the now known paragraph 16 of the law of reform of the school, recently approved. The projects inspired by gender in fact could easily be hidden behind a series of apparently good intentions and it would be extremely dangerous for the school to propose, whether or not seeking consent, theories seriously contrary to the good of our children, in spite of the multitude of people who last Saturday at the Circus Maximus in Rome, have manifested against the bill Cirinna. It is vital that parents watch over their children's school programs and extracurricular activities. Today not only do you have to follow your boys closely as regards friendships to prevent them from getting involved in episodes of bullying and cyber bullying, or using narcotics to get high. All this is no longer enough today. They must also be followed closely in their schooling and it is not possible to delegate this fundamental function to others, in the belief that teachers or professors know more about it than their parents. On the contrary, it is necessary to claim the right of parents to educate their children according to their own principles, without anyone, for any reason in the world, being able to Expropriate. Mr. President, I was at the Family Day last Saturday. I don't know if there were two million or a million people. Mr President, I do not know how many people there were, but I can assure you that I have never seen so many people all together. Many people participated actively and even those who could not be present gave with their heart support to the initiative, because the children are the first to have the right to know their mother and father. The Lega Nord Group makes it clear that it is opposed to gay adoptions and this apedom of marriage. There are so many gays who want to distinguish themselves from those who go to the streets to make carnivals, so many people who live their lives as heterosexuals or homosexuals, each according to their own choices and their own nature, and who ask for the most normal things in the world, work, more security, less taxes, and try to have a decent life. They ask for very normal things, and that is precisely why we would like a more normal Italy for everyone, gay or straight. This cannot be achieved, Mr President, by such a government and such a parliamentary majority. Gay adoptions must not exist in heaven or on earth. We are and will always be opposed to any possibility of gay adoption. At the time of birth, a child has the right to see his mother and father in the face. Then, what happens in life is something else. Everyone is free to live his life as he wants, but to a certain extent. Mr President, I have to say that this Europe has a bit of a pain in the ass. As long as he was concerned with the length of cucumbers or the size of clams, which was not quite normal, one could also close an eye; then he decided that one can make chocolate without cocoa and wine without grapes; but that now he also decided how to make weddings, it seems absolutely out of place! In what drawer has this Europe forgotten subsidiarity? In matters where states should have a sort of legitimate autonomy, Europe tends to make them uniform, flattening them down and trying to make a jam from all countries. It does not deal with the specificity they have, the cultural issue, or the economic one. On the other hand, in areas where Europe is being called at the forefront, for example, for defence and immigration, Europe could act more effectively, while it is doing absolutely too little, and perhaps that was what Europe had to do. Instead of working to solve the real problems of Italians, the government deals with gay adoptions, gives citizenships to immigrants and attacks the better-governed regions. Then, the PD exponents in these days have also been told a few pearls! Mr Guerini, deputy secretary of the PD, commenting on the Family Day said that it is up to politics to listen to everyone and confront everyone. He added that there will be a long and in-depth debate on civil unions, and then Parliament will vote, precisely what they have decided before! Senator Marcucci said: "Absolute respect for the Family Day, but Parliament will not take a step back on civil unions" and only confirm what I have just said. Mr Rosato, the House leader, says that the square does not change the legal process, but it has never happened that a measure came out of Parliament identical to how it entered. And this is our wish for this law. He is the only one who has seemed to me to be more pompous about the capacity of this Parliament and this Senate to influence a law that we seem to have had since the first reading something absolutely unsatisfying. That families are obscured and their identity is confused in a jam where everything is the same is unacceptable to us. Our civilization is so much in crisis that today the generation of parents must explain and convince their children that they are married between a man and a woman, so is the homosexual ideology. Considering that these children do not have a working stability, grown up with the culture of rights and freedom alone, without the awareness of duties, rules, responsibilities and, probably, sacrifice, the result is that they do not really think about putting on a family and less than ever to give in the light of their children. I shall conclude, Mr President, with one consideration. During these two years of the legislature, measures have been approved that have upset the history and the millenary culture of this country: we are truly sorry about this and are really dissatisfied with the work of this Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u14	We greet professors and students of the Institute of Higher Secondary Education "Leopoldo Pilla" in Campobasso, who are attending our work from the forums. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, this measure comes to the House after a tortuous process and in the midst of a heated debate in public opinion. I want to say this very clearly: it is a debate that I did not like, because all too often it has taken on the contours of the clash between typhoseries, one deaf to the reasons of the other. As a moderate in politics and in character, I hoped for a higher debate, in a true confrontation. On the other hand, we found ourselves with categorical invitations to respect for the Constitution, on the one hand and on the other, between those who hoist in one corner the flag of Article 2 and those in the other that of Article 29. Never, as on this occasion, have I felt the comfort of another article in our Constitution, that of the freedom of mandate of parliamentarians: today I claim it as an opportunity to try to return to the merits of matters, to give our country a just law, a law that takes into account the rights and prerogatives of all. I believe that Italy needs a law on civil rights and not just for European condemnation. A law that does not make surrogacy marriages, but gives the possibility of assistance in case of illness, of pension survivors, of all rights in matters of succession. But on children the story becomes much more complex. Because here, more than the rights of the couple, we have to reason on the rights of the child. True, there are those born from previous relationships and for which it is necessary to think of some form of responsibility, in case of necessity, by the partner of the biological parent. But can the desire to bring into the world and raise children with a partner of the same sex really be called a right? Here, I believe that the use of the various forms of surrogacy clashes with a primary and inalienable right of every person to have full certainty of their biological identity. Because a child born through the use of this technique will certainly have all the good of this world and be raised in the best possible way, but will live in uncertainty about an aspect that for me remains an inviolable right equal, but certainly in a greater way, than that of same-sex couples not to be treated as B-series citizens. Because the civilization of one country is measured by the fact that the rights of each end exactly at the point where those of the others begin. I therefore believe that in no way can this law become the Trojan horse with which the forms of surrogacy are promoted. This principle - and I would like to stress this - must also apply to heterosexuals, extending the criminality of the crime even when committed abroad. For all these reasons, I have firmly signed a number of amendments by my colleagues Dalla Zuanna and Lepri from the PD and other senators from my Group on Articles 4 and 5. I did so because those amendments do not make it an ideological fact, but they come into the substance, suggesting solutions of common sense with respect to the protection of children who are already in the world or who can be the result of other reports. Because today's issue is how to get out of this House with a law that widens the sphere and the quality of rights and not with a law that accompanies the desire of some in a claim to the detriment of others. Parliament must express its utmost authority by not playing the game of opposing typho-series, of the ideological and intellectually unethical readings that are housed today both among those who are in favour of the law, and among those who oppose it, knowing that the issue of surrogacy is central, because it is essential to widen the sphere and the quality of the rights of all: of the same-sex couples, of the children who are in the world, of those who will come. For me, this is a point which is right in relation to the whole law, and I reserve the right not to vote on it in the event that the proposals for amendments that I have highlighted and which are supported by many of my colleagues in the majority will not be accepted. And then my hope is that on the so-called stepchild adoption there will be a clear revision of the rule. I ask the rapporteur, Mrs Cirinna, in particular. Reviewing this rule would allow to approve this bill with the favorable vote of a particularly representative part not only of this Assembly, but of the whole country. That would be a very valuable fact. I hope that this opportunity will not be wasted. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u16	Mr President, it has already happened several times in the history of this country that decisive and fundamental hairpin bends have been addressed for the recognition of rights and for the adaptation of the laws of the State to the social reality, to those that would once be called the customs, that is to say to the ways of living of citizens, to being together with people, to the way of regulating their personal relationships and also the sphere of their private life. It happened, for example, with the law on divorce and the recognition of women's right to abortion, which ensured a very significant step forward on the ground of civilization. As in those years, today we have the possibility to adapt the regulatory framework to the social reality, regulating socially relevant conditions that concern a very significant and important number of people, regulating them and not creating them from nothing by law, as would seem to suggest some unwise commentator. We should then start from here, from an objective examination of the so-called Cirinna bill, to discuss what the text regulates and not the imaginative interpretations and exploitations that have been made of it. The bill regulates civil unions between persons of the same sex as specific social formation, and unions between persons of different sex than marriage. It is recognized to permanently living couples, once the civil union has been celebrated, to enjoy rights and duties corresponding to those of marriage governed by the civil code. That is what this is all about. They have no foundation, therefore, the imaginative interpretations that we have also heard in these days, in the parliamentary classrooms as in honestly a little hypocritical demonstrations, even if in any case important, at least as much as those that have been in hundred squares throughout the country the previous week, to ask for equal rights for all. It is not, as stated in the document of convocation of the event at the Circus Maximus, for example, the triumph of a fantomatic gender ideology, that is, the relativization of the sexual identity understood as the product of a cultural choice rather than a biological and psychic determinant. There is nothing in the text that in any way authorizes us to think this. Marriage is not distorted as a union between man and woman. A union between persons of the same sex and of different sex is legally protected. Nothing is taken away from anyone; it guarantees, both in the first and in the second case, a right to those who are deprived of it. These are minimum standards of civilisation and, before that, standards of common sense, which, at least, allow us to adapt our legislation to European standards. There is nothing in civil unions governed by the bill that could harm the family as a marriage-based formation, referred to in Article 29 of the Constitution. No liquidation of an alleged natural right and no reference to those reckless exegesis on human biology that we have also had the opportunity to listen to in these weeks. And there is no attack on popular sentiment, let's say, which, moreover, to a more careful observation, would be found to have already been very evolved on the subject, perhaps even much more than this House and the representation, demonstrating the fact that the country, as in many cases, has more advanced positions than those who claim to represent it. And again, the Cyrinna bill has been entirely and artfully associated with one aspect, which regulates - as we have heard today - the possibility of adopting the partner's biological child, as provided for in Article 5. For a connection that we find incomprehensible, unless it is dictated by pure and simple instrumentalization, this possibility is associated with a free way to the uterus for rent. Nothing more false. The so-called surrogate motherhood, which, by the way, occurs in the vast majority of heterosexual couples, remains prohibited, as we know, by the legal order of our country. Moreover, the instrumentality emerges clearly when we start from attacking Article 5 and then rejecting the bill in its entirety in the part, happens, in which it regulates the unions between persons of the same sex. Moreover, even clinging to the letter of Article 29 of the Constitution by those who often speak of the Charter as a largely anachronistic text, seems to us quite singular. We should abandon, even for a feeling of tolerance, the weapons of propaganda and think, instead, to the real needs of people in the flesh, of minors, of children first of all, to their right to preserve the community of affections in which they grew up, which is also the surest guarantee of protection. To us it seems that the ghost of surrogate motherhood, also recently recalled in the square, represents a forgery to be rejected with force, also because it is agitated like a clava on the head of those who are in favour of the bill. But above all because it is intended to poison the wells of the debate and to mislead the debate by confusing public opinion as well. That is why it is inadmissible. It is, in our view, too serious a question to leave it to the exploitation and the protagonism of an area of opinion that too often bears on rights a narrow vision, limited to an idea of society and family that does not exist in reality, centered only on vetoes, prohibitions and prohibitions. I really hope that the important words that I have heard and which we heard this morning in this House, particularly in the speech by Senator Lo Giudice, will help to make these elements finally clear. Life, affection, the needs of real people are at stake. They demand rights, dignity and protection. We are called today to ensure nothing but this. The draft law we are debating today is, in our view, the absolute minimum of rights which institutions which want to be representative of to some extent can provide citizens with. There is no question of an anthropological issue here, as has been said. Civil rights and the dignity of people are under discussion, what a democratic state must guarantee to all its citizens. Everyone, without exception. Let it be clear, our considerations are valid with respect to the bill in its entirety. We, who would have liked (and have also tabled amendments to this effect) a much more advanced text than we will be voting on, for example, gay marriage, which exists in many countries of the world, will not accept, as far as we are concerned, any downward mediation, no excerpt from stepchild adoption and we believe that the proposals to transform the adoption of the partner's biological child into the so-called reinforced foster care would completely break down the law we are talking about. That would be unacceptable for us. For this reason, of course, in accordance with the parliamentary dialectic, we think that only to approve the bill without changes in the worst finally represents the exit from the civil minority of those who have been waiting for recognition and rights for too long, ensuring adequate protection for minors present in these families. Because these, as far as we are concerned, are families and not simply specific social formations as, somewhat aseptically, let us say, defines the text. I shall conclude, Mr President, with one final consideration, in this case entirely political, if I may say so. My party, my parliamentary group, the Left Ecology and Freedom, is convinced of the opposition of the Renzi Government, it is well known. We also know, and we know well, that this very Government in recent years, from our point of view, has reduced the rights of workers on essential issues with the jobs act, and also those democratic - and we hope to beat it in the referendum - with constitutional reforms, and it will probably use the approval of this bill also to make the public forget the many wrong and very serious choices that have been made in recent years. But I would like to say just as clearly that we are not interested in this. On the subject of the enlargement of rights, the dignity of women, men and children comes first, long before, political maneuvers, games and palace games and even of the particular interest of a single political force. That is why, despite the opposition, we will vote very strongly in favour of this text, considering it to be a starting point and certainly not a point of arrival. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u17	She is registered to speak Senator Mattesini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u18	Mr President, I believe that politics today, more than ever, has a duty to keep two things together: on the one hand, its capacity for mediation and, on the other hand, its courage and its duty to choose. Mediation that has a high significance, especially in these times of liquid society, of weakening the common reasons of being together as a state and as a society. Mediation that is a tool for the recomposition of the many opposite fragmentations. It is an extraordinary tool for the promotion and support of that culture, which today is weakened, respect and listening to the reasons of others and the duty of politics to bring these reasons to a synthesis. Mediation yes, therefore, but not mediation that brings back the hands of acquired rights speaking of minors. So, no to a mediation that starts from the downside on children's rights. And I say that in all this debate I was very impressed by the fact that it has developed almost sickly, sick of adult centrism, of an arrogant adult centrism, that is, of the attitude that places at the center of the perception and interpretation of the world, even of the childish one, of the only point of view of adults. With a consequence, which concerns all of us, adults unable to find a solution to problems, such as the issue of surrogacy, proposing solutions that have, if not as a consequence, the intention to make children pay for this inability of adults to find mediation. They are therefore mediations that I do not accept and that I believe none of us should accept on minors. The issue of surrogacy is a real and important issue, among other things already regulated and prohibited in Italy by law 40. But this is not the place. It cannot be surrogate motherhood, at this stage, the element that prevents us from approving a text that really protects children to the full, as well as protecting the right to love those who want to. It is in fact already incardinated in the Health Commission, here in the Senate, the measure that concerns the reordering of law n. 40. And that is the place where to deepen the theme in a serious way and not so, in an almost reckless and punitive way. What strikes me today in this debate is that children should be treated as an object, making only the supremacy of us adults, of our ethical and moral convictions, of our desires prevail. I think it is useful for all of us to remember that in recent decades the culture of children has been established in practice, not as weak subjects to be protected, but as those who have rights and this principle, as well as that of the child's best interests, international and national regulations have been reversed. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child of New York states in the preamble that the child must grow in a family environment for the sake of the harmonious and complete development of his/her personality. It's about the family environment, not the type of family. To those who today propose a single family model, I just want to report a figure from ISTAT: in recent years the Italian population has grown by 10%. Do you know how much more families have grown? 47.7 percent. The data speak for themselves, there is no need to interpret them with respect to how much the reality is already of families, and not only of a single type of family. I would like to remind you again of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which reminds us that in all decisions relating to the same, what must be prominent is the child's own interest. It is necessary for us, if only for consistency, to remember also the law n. 173, passed last October, which guarantees the right to the child's emotional continuity and establishes that in every decision (in that case there was talk of custody) must be taken into account the significant emotional ties and the stable and consolidated relationship between children and adults. Children cannot and should not be subject to the desire or prohibition of adults. They are holders of acquired rights and we cannot go back to what we have already acquired. Just as there is no right for adults to decide, in the name of their own moral staff, to mitigate or suspend, for example, the continuity of affection with instruments such as those which are the subject of certain amendments (I am thinking of pre-affidavit, for example) because they are choices that interrupt acquired rights. I, who am convinced of the right to marriage and adoption, believe that stepchild adoption is an excellent mediation and that it must be approved exactly as it is in the text, moving the debate on Law No 40 of 2004. Because stepchild adoption is nothing more than a tool that seeks to protect all those girls and children who already exist, who already live within homogenital families, already grow up and are cared for by two men or two women. They are already reality, concrete life. Only, unlike other children, they're not protected. [[Applause from Senator Simeoni.]] So I say to my colleagues: what do you mean when you talk about children's rights? So we go back to existing national and international standards. You see, colleagues, gay or lesbian people, regardless of whether or not we approve of stepchild adoption, have always raised children and will continue to do so even now, even in the future. The question is whether these children will be raised having recognised their rights, with parents having the rights, benefits and safeguards guaranteed by civil unions. I speak of minors and civil unions to assert strongly that civil unions are the legal status that promotes the well-being of all members of the family, giving it a stable set of rights and responsibilities, which can otherwise not be obtained. I shall conclude with a little reflection on the policy itself. Colleagues, I think that the debate that has accompanied us so far shows a profound mismatch between a certain policy and civil society, because there are not only the squares but also the data, which we mentioned earlier, of ISTAT. It is precisely this debauchery that gives rise to delays, ideological superstructures, an almost late-religious war climate. We who often reason, at every electoral round, how much more separation between citizens and institutions, of how many fewer and fewer people go to vote, have the responsibility of approving a law that not only fills a void, but above all prevents us from eliminating realities that already exist, that we delete people's lives. If this policy, this legislator, this state does not see me or does not want to see me, that policy for me becomes insignificant and also enemy. With this measure we first of all make a huge delay on civil unions, and we are not inventing rules for situations to create, but we are giving answers to lives lived, which have existed for years and which ask politics to have the ability to mediate, to start from a mediation, already profoundly happened around the text, and at the same time choose in the interest of everyone. But it also responds to the interest of politics, because we all live the insignificance, in many parts of this country, of politics, and it is up to us to overcome the challenge of restoring strong significance, competence and attractiveness to politics itself. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u19	Senator Alicata is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the world is crossed by dangerous and long-lasting tensions. The Mediterranean is in danger of getting hotter every day. There is a population driven by the risk of terrorism and uncontrolled immigration that does not exclude, on the contrary, increases it, as the French Minister for Defence last pointed out, of that main country responsible for the Libyan chaos, which however gives itself the luxury of pulling the ears of our Government. Yet the risk exists, it is serious and concrete, and it is not enough to deny it the irresponsible words of the Government or of those who, from Lampedusa, were looking forward to yet another media appearance. In a few weeks, Italy will probably be at the forefront of Libya, and perhaps we should start preparing public opinion for this. Instead, what do the Premier and the majority who support this Government, the least influential of the last thirty years at international level? They find no better than to get involved with civil unions between homosexuals - the great and primary Italian problem, the one that comes before all the others - a weapon of mass distraction, while from January to today the Italian stock exchange has lost 17 points. In this country there is a minority of gays with another minority within it who - it is assumed - will want a marriage tomorrow. Well, the legitimate expectation of this latter minority has the upper hand to make it a priority for the country to recognise homosexual unions, while the world burns and Italy and Europe are faced with serious problems that require serious decisions. But the government doesn't have time. The Premier does not have time and must first think about the marriage of homosexuals and satisfy the left within his party in exchange for the support on the reforms. As you know, our Group will vote against the draft law under discussion because it is not against civil unions, but against them being approved for marriage, in open opposition to our Constitution. In addition, to further indigest the measure under consideration, is introduced the theme of stepchild adoption, in practice the antechamber of the uterus in rent waited that, in case of urgent desire of two men to have a child, no one could prevent them to go abroad and rent the mother's womb of a woman, mostly in need, transforming into law what from the night of time has always been a beautiful, sweet desire. We believe that making the mother's womb almost a spare part is a revolting cultural operation, which does not consider that already in the period of pregnancy many peculiarities of the future person are determined between mother and child, as attested by numerous scientific studies. Indeed, through the hypothesis of regulating unions between partners of the same sex, we also want to credit the right to have at any cost a child to explain one day which mother or machine has brought him into the world. Now, the need to recognise individual rights also in relations between people of the same sex, but we do not think it is in the psychological interest of children to upset the concept of family, as intended by our Constitution, with children transformed into a gift package. Similarly, it is not possible to follow a bill as an argument that prevails in the editorials of the newspapers that count, in the fashions and in the good living rooms of the country or because - as they say - Italy must align with the so-called advanced countries. And who determines what the advanced countries are on the subject? Who decides that to conform to the possible widespread miscostume makes the measure that is intended to be taken just? Mr President, we want to understand if we are still in time to argue that the real family is only the one made up of a man and a woman, with the primary task of educating children and transmitting certain values to them, in a family context such as the one described by the Constitution, which - as you say in your parts - is the most beautiful in the world, and which to date excludes, however, the possibility of marriage between people of the same sex. However, to recognize such couples with a ceremony similar to that of marriage (with public registration and two witnesses), giving them the rights and duties typical of the matrimonial institution (the obligation of fidelity, cohabitation and maintenance, the reversibility of the pension and the reserve of legitimate quota), brings the regime closer to that of marriage: a heavy forcing, a serious hypocrisy and a great deception for Italian public opinion. Another thing is to regularize the stable coexistence and, in this sense, many problems regarding individual rights have already been resolved at the legal level and legislation for couples of fact: there are no differences in the matter of children; you can happen in the lease in case of death of the holder; you can obtain compensation for the damage in case of death of the partner for an accident; you are allowed visits to prison; in the last case, the jurisprudence has admitted also the abstention from testifying in the criminal process to the partner. Therefore, any legislative gaps in relation to same-sex couples could be remedied by an ordinary law, without the need to define the relationship between homosexual partners with a new form of marriage, which the Constitutional Court cannot but sanction. The State must surely enforce all sexual orientations without discrimination and all cohabitants, including homosexual couples, must be able to support each other in moral and material terms. But, first of all, the state must be concerned about protecting the rights of children to have a father and a mother. Probably, however, the attempt to pass a law that, in essence, equates civil unions to marriage hides the true objective, once approved marriage union between persons of the same sex, to rewrite the coordinates of the family and accept also the dangerous lexical confusion, so there will be no more difference between mother and father and parent A and parent B. It is a real fraud with the aim of making the fundamental reference to a father and a mother disappear in this unfortunate age. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u21	Mr President, we are in a time of change and the changes are never easy, they easily find resistance and produce fears. Yet, looking at Europe's geographical map and the amount of Western countries - we are almost alone now excluded from the will to guarantee, to protect homosexual couples - I never imagined that such a ruse would unleash, giving vent to backward and homophobic positions, as it is - there is no doubt - the display of signs at the demonstration of the Family Day with the written "wrong" is wrong. It was a veritable act of discrimination against homosexual couples. It is difficult to think that a wrong thing in itself can be legitimized and, therefore, what is the answer? Exclusion? Discrimination? We are in open conflict with two articles of the Constitution and I must say that I have seen with pleasure that even a part of the clergy, as well as much of the Catholics, has considered this a real offense to humanity. Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution - as we have mentioned several times during these days - speak of equal individual and social civil rights, as well as of the guarantee that all citizens have equal social dignity without distinction - I repeat, without distinction - of religion, race and sex, as well as that it is the task of the Republic to remove social obstacles that prevent true equality and true freedoms. Direct experience has led me over time from a position of doubt preconception towards gay couples to a great understanding, of serene conviction that it is necessary to agree from the point of legislative visa on the existence of egalitarian marriage for homosexual couples, including the right to adopt, after simple and systemic verification of the requirements, as it already happens today for heterosexual couples, without prejudice. At certain moments, during this last period and also in this House, it seemed to me that it was meant to play cat and mouse or, for those who know it, I came back to my mind the story of the donkey, the old and the child on the way to the city, where whatever choice the poor old man decides - he puts himself or only the child over the donkey, they both put themselves or leave the donkey without loads - he always finds on the street someone who disputes with reprobation the choice made. This is the case under consideration. Civil union is contested because it becomes similar-marriage, stating that - according to the bill under consideration - heterosexual couples - this was felt - do not have the same rights as homosexual couples; at the same time, however, it denies the possibility of offering egalitarian marriage more clearly to homo couples, as it exists for heterosexual couples. Only in this way, in fact, would be achieved the full equalization of the rights of each, making available to the free choice of the couple the one and the other legal form. Evidently, this parification abhors even more than civil unions. It is inferred that nothing goes well, that nothing can be done to give to a homosexual couple that desires mutual recognition in a civil place, guaranteeing their mutual duties and their respective rights. I listened to the reasons for the no. It has also been said that marriage cannot be such, because it is aimed at procreation, confusing and mixing civil code and Catholic doctrine (the most backward, pre-conciliar) and therefore denying, with a truly fundamentalist meaning, the right to exist in the light of the sun as a couple if not heterosexual. I have also heard that it would not be worth the principle that there is a couple where there is love, because it has been said that marriage involves mutual commitment, before and - it is assumed - above mere love. It recites the matrimonial norm, reproduced for the occasion in the bill on civil unions, which derives from the civil union mutual obligation to fidelity, moral and material assistance and cohabitation. Both parties are required, each in relation to their own substances and to their own professional and homework capacity, to contribute to common needs. Well, according to this reasoning and this logic of life to two, in common, we expect a proper mutual commitment. This should make us understand that the strong demand from homosexual couples to see themselves certify their union is good and fair, especially for society, because public recognition guarantees the spouses, one towards the other, but above all determines precise duties, present, heavy and circumstantial, determining a partial fulfillment of the social protections, provided for the individual, in favour of a transfer to the couple, recognized as the core of the society. This brings relief to the country itself. It is not only individual rights, therefore, as a certain part of the Catholic component suggests, but a transparent and positive contract of law-duty, social and civil. I conclude by talking about stepchild adoption: I personally find it necessary that adoption, as a true and generous instrument to give care and affection to abandoned and lonely children of any part of the world, is the objective to which we should strive. In the light of the debate on stepchild adoption, as was held in this House, I realize that today, too, the simple adoption of the partner's child, at least moral obligation, is regarded, on a substantial part of this House, as an excess. Is it preferable to allow the judiciary, through individual and subjective sentences, from time to time, whether or not it should be the partner of the no longer existing biological parent to take care of their child? Honestly, I ask you to think about it: politics has a duty to define the regulatory framework, regulating for everyone an equal system, with transparency and objectivity, ensuring a line of conduct, in which the only element of further evaluation is that of the ability to educate and to love responsibly and individually. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u22	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u23	Italy is the only one of the six founding nations of the European Union that does not yet recognise either civil unions or homosexual marriages. For this reason, in July 2015, she was sentenced by the Court of Strasbourg to compensate three homosexual couples for non-compliance with the provisions relating to private and family life. And this is still an open and bloody wound, which prevents tens of thousands of people from feeling fully Italian citizens. Despite the call, our country has continued - and still continues - to violate Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, but that is not enough. On 8 September, on the occasion of the adoption of the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the European Union, Italy was once again invited to give homosexuals access to legal institutions, such as cohabitation, registered union or marriage. These are the legal institutions that regulate the private and family life of people and must be renewed and improved, because of the change and evolution of the social fabric. It would be absurd, as well as anachronistic, to think otherwise, and not just for a purely welfare, contributory or administrative matter. These are, in fact, indispensable rights, which have been prey for too long of political bargaining by voltostomaco and calculations by usurers, so much so that civil rights have been robbed to exchange goods for broad understandings, entering into the great commercialization of the past times, at times when they have been seen of all the colors: promotions from the first of the class, public declarations of unexpected pregnancies, governmental appointments scattered here and there, interminable night sessions in the Commission justice, calls to the municipal regulation on the protection of animals, biblical quotations and sermons, opinions of famous characters and of the show, opinions of perbenisti and wands at the Family Day. The same people, however, do not blink if the Minister for Reform, Miss Trust Boschi, plunges with all the shoes into a banking scandal. The same people, then, screams from the benches, excited and shouts when it comes to recognizing rights to people, appealing to a hypothetical and personal code of law. You tell me if this isn't pure madness. Today we have to make a breakthrough, and that doesn't seem true to us. This House is ready to discuss a law which, for us in the 5 Star Movement, has always been a measure of civilization and sensitivity. This is testified by the fact that, since October 2014, we asked the members of the portal of the Movement to express their opinion on the need to introduce in our legal system a regulation on civil unions. The people of our supporters and voters discussed, deepened and finally gave us the green light with conviction, to support this reform. Since then, as far as we are concerned, we have never changed our mind: our position has always remained clear, firm and coherent: civil unions must be regulated. The 5 Star Movement has never made a mystery about the need to eliminate any kind of obstacle between the citizen and the free expression of his personality. The list of discriminations, by necessity of things, must be shortened, indeed completely eliminated. There is the need to guarantee elementary rights also to cohabiting heterosexual couples: new social formations that are in strong growth in our increasingly poor Italy, where precarious, housing crisis, absence of social services, and where therefore the couples - gay, lesbian or heterosexual, do not matter - struggle to build a project of future together as a family unit. It has been forgotten, it seems, that behind these pulls and springs there are human beings, people, children unjustly subjected to protection conditioned by the wind pulling or by the mood of the representatives of this coalition without head or tail. We are talking about forms of guarantee that cannot be postponed if we want our country to be a democratic country. Cultures, relationships, affections are not monoliths or inert matter. Similarly, there are no hierarchical scales of affection for which, if you are married, you have protection and, if you are not, who cares. Just as there are no better affections than others and, for this reason, worthy of greater guarantees. Bringing this back thought is hypocrites, as well as profoundly incorrect: people are not objects and are not treated as such. It is necessary to eliminate all those cultural heritages from the Middle Ages of which the narrow minds feed. I repeat that the sexual orientation of a person is not a sufficient condition to exclude his ability to be a good parent, entrusted to the judge and follows other criteria, common to heterosexuals and homosexuals and focused on better protection. Our system needs a clear, effective legislative discipline that legally recognizes the institution of couples formed by persons of the same sex as specific social formation and of de facto couples both heterosexual and homosexual in the context of the rights and duties of cohabiting couples. In conclusion, there is no equalization of marriage in the Cirinna bill. The rights that would be applied are those of succession, to stay in the house rented by the partner or partner, and all those that concern the life of a couple. Those who talk about equalization with marriage or have not read the bill, and therefore ignore the text, or just try to make confusion in public opinion with the same claim to judge. Finally, last January 31 Pope Francis, during his Sunday Angelus, the day after the Family Day gathering, said: "No human condition can constitute a reason for exclusion from the heart of the Father. The only privilege in God's eyes is to have no privilege, that is to be abandoned in his hands. Francis himself - I remember - some time before, expressing himself on the homosexual condition, said: "Who am I to judge?" Here I am addressing all those who are still trying to oppose the approval of this text and I propose to them the same question: who are you to judge? [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u24	Senator Marinello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u25	Mr President, in these hours I have listened very carefully in this House to the arguments of my fellow Members and, in particular, I have appreciated and listened to the arguments that came from colleagues who think differently from my own. First of all, I have an idea about the rapporteur, who has not in fact dealt with the text of the law and, above all, with the consequences and scenarios arising from the text of the law if it is adopted as presented. It has limited itself to exposing its own personal vision by trying to urge a distorted human piety by fearing the existence of a sort of sexual apartheid present, according to the same, in many homosexual couples. It did not even touch one of the issues raised during the debate for the examination of the preliminary rulings. We know how well some of these issues are founded to the point of meriting the attention of one of the highest hills in our capital. It is false that our order leaves in the shadows and almost segregate homosexuals who want to lead a life together. It is not by chance that the legal order already widely recognizes individual rights to the members of a homosexual union. In fact, the text proposed by Senator Cirinna does not bring out in an organic way existing rights, perhaps strengthening them, but aims to identify for the so-called civil unions a regime similar to the matrimonial one. It is an overlap that runs counter to the Constitution, which specifically treats the family as a natural society founded on marriage, distinguishing it from other social formations. The text proposed, in contrast to Articles 29 and 31 of the Constitution, is hostile to the dignity of the person, to the interests of the child, to the good of the family community and to the future of Italy. We have also heard in a number of speeches a sort of mandatory approval of the law in accordance with the calls of the European Courts. Before replying to this objection, may I read from a book, "Memories and Identity." Conversations at the turn of millennia", written by such Saint John Paul II, the following sentence: I think of the strong pressure of the European Parliament to recognise homosexual unions as an alternative form of family to which the right of adoption would also be attributed. The question can and must be asked whether it is not, here again, a new ideology of evil, perhaps more insidious, perhaps more occult, which attempts to exploit human rights against man and the family as well. Beyond the quotation, which I also liked to do in order to deny some things heard a moment ago in speeches by colleagues who preceded me that, inappropriately, have confused the Second Vatican Council with other situations, I do not want to evade the call of the European courts. Mr Cirinna, it is true that the Strasbourg judges, in their judgment of 21 July 2015, condemned Italy for failing to comply with the positive obligation to implement the fundamental rights to the private life and family life of same-sex couples, but it is also true - let us stress this immediately - that they leave the national parliaments the freedom to find the most appropriate regulation. And the Italian legislator has a wide range of possibilities to regulate these unions, which rightly demand protection. Who wants to get away from this? However, since the judgment of July 2015, a compulsory procedure cannot be deduced. Indeed: Parliament must take into account a judgment of the Constitutional Court, No 138 of 2010, which reaffirms that our Republic recognises the rights of the family as a natural society based on marriage. As a result, the Cirinna bill, as it is written, does not respect the stakes that the Constitutional Court has reminded us of. The rights of homosexuals can and must be safeguarded at the same time by guaranteeing individual rights, by protecting persons who have a stable social relationship, but who cannot be treated as a family. These are completely different things. Nor is it sufficient to include in the text a clause such as that defining homosexual unions as specific social formations. This is a pure and simple nominal change. The proposed law, I repeat, as it is written, equates homosexual unions with the family. Those who propose it in a different way are trying a trick not even well built. I would like to remind you that Article 29 of the Constitution states: "The Republic protects the family as a natural formation based on marriage." It therefore recognizes the family as pre-existing to the Constitution and the laws, not only of this State, but to any law. Social and cultural foundation, social and above all natural and biological formation: it is nature that has established how procreation takes place or between a man and a woman, neither more nor less. That is why the Constitution recognizes it: the family is already there, and the fact that this relationship is stable and lasting is one of the reasons that makes our species - assuming that ours is in fact an animal species - different from the others. No other formation can be compared to the family that, as said, is something that exists in nature; in nature there are no parties, no cooperatives, no unions, all respectable formations but built by man, just as all other relationships of solidarity between individuals are built. Nor can we pick up how the substantial equivalence and equalization between marriage and civil unions would inevitably lead to the so-called right to have children, basically opening the way to homosexual adoptions, widening to an extent the abominable and criminal - I say criminal - practice of the uterus for rent, of which we will say later. [[Applause from the Senator Council]] In the meantime, I stress with conviction that there is no right at all to have a child, but the real only right to be protected is that of all children to have a father and a mother. We can't gabellate desires, let alone whims for rights. This is a vision that amplifies relativism, individualism, selfishness towards a universal dimension with disastrous consequences. A well-known psychiatrist, not a Catholic, wrote: Man is a desiring being. We live because we desire and desire because we live. And always for our advantage. (...) But desire has a limit. If we don't realize that we're not limiting ourselves to desire, neurosis, psychosis, madness arrives. Today society does not want to set limits, it is becoming insane. (17.57) (Follows MARINELLO). Should we question the limit of our madness of omnipotence: Senator Cirinna, fellow senators, quis ut deus? Nobody talks about the protection of minors, the growth of minors, the educational reference figures, the natural emulation towards reference models. For this reason it cannot be dealt with with with clever and maramalde maneuvers the theme of adoptions, simplifying everything to particular cases perhaps with pietistic arguments. Adoptions by homosexual couples with the further cleverness of stepchild adoption, of which we could do very well without, generally pose questions to which we have a duty to answer. Can these become reference models? Equally unacceptable, as an alternative to stepchild adoption, is the ventilated hypothesis of the so-called reinforced foster care, i.e. the transformation of the foster care into an adoption with respect to which the course of time can lead to a definitive settlement in the family of destination. Reliance and adoption respond to different logics, having so far had both as reference the interest of the minor, variable depending on the situation of departure: in the foster care there is a momentary difficulty of the original family, in the adoption there is the state of abandonment of the minor. It is useless to hide, with a veiled hypocrisy, that from the approval of the bill as it is obtained to the surrogacy motherhood, that you sweeten with the most elegant expression of management for others. It is the uterus for rent; have the courage to call it by name and surname. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] The uterus for rent is one of the contemporary forms of exploitation and humiliation of the most serious woman, hostile to that respect of the person who is the cornerstone of our order; exploitation, neo-prostitution, neo-slavery of the body of the woman, of the rich towards the poor, of the strongest towards the weakest. A proprietary idea of life that destroys the very concept of procreation, demeaning it to a production, in which the pregnant woman is a kind of incubator and in which the newborn becomes product, commodity, thing. This brings the clock's hands back to the day before March 25, 1807 for the British Empire and, more generally, to a civilization debate held at the Vienna Congress in 1815. Can a child be ripped from the mother after a few seconds from her birth? Madam President, I read to you the municipal regulation on the protection of animals in the city of Rome. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] , which says in Article 8 (6): It is forbidden to separate the puppies of dogs and cats from the mother before 60 days of life unless for serious reasons certified by a veterinary surgeon. Who signed this regulation? The mayor's delegate to animal rights policies, Monica Cirinna, rapporteur for this measure, which I do not see in this House at the moment. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] My colleague, Mr Cirinna, you were right to include this rule, which I agree with. It is serious that the rapporteur is not here.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u26	Please finish, Senator Marinello.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u27	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Yeah, if I don't interrupt. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the city of Rome gives more protection to puppies of dogs and cats than the practice of the uterus in rent guarantees to puppies of man. Madam President, Abraham never thought of separating Ishmael... [[Senator Fornaro's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u28	Senator Fornaro, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u29	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, Abraham never thought of separating Ishmael from his mother, even when he was forced to remove Hagar from his family and tribal nucleus. I find it abominable any commodity of the human body and the practice of the uterus for rent, among the commodities of the human body, has the horrible primacy to add to the traffic for money the worst of the crimes, the separation of the newborn from the natural mother; that is why we must include this practice among the universal crimes, even if practiced abroad, both by heterosexual couples and homosexuals. One last thought. We are at a time when the protection of nature and the environment has become universally appreciated values and the subject of international treaties. Protection of biodiversity, protection of the rights of different animal species, enhancement of biological practices in food production cycles and in the processing of products, awareness of nature and the relationship between nature and man, intended no longer as master and referee, but as a user and guardian. These are values that are valid in all fields, except in the appreciation of the real, natural, anatomical, biological essence of the human species; values subjugated and ignored only in one case, that is, in the appreciation of the diversity and complementarity of man and woman and in the immutable genesis of procreation. This is a real and incredible schizophrenia of our times, to the point of subverting only for humans the natural order of things, arrogating us the right to be engineers of creation, up to a rationalism that pushes to the exasperation of genetic and social engineering, with which we think we can change, convey and reinvent everything. We are attentive to the dictatorships of minorities, who, using the conformism of political correctness and with the complicity often interested in the media and sometimes the money of strong powers and lobbying, want to upset the natural cycle of life, not listening to the common sense and common sense of the country, of that country that on 20 June 2015 and 30 January 2016 made to hear without if and without but his voice. These considerations are not the result of my personal training and sensitivity. In my speech I did not use all the arguments I care about and that could expose my reflections to criticism of excessive flattening on the Christian-Catholic religious vision of my personal experience. I do not want to open a debate at the moment on values and identities, but I want to see the scientific-biological and therefore secular approach of my speech. To this end I take with great interest the perplexities of authoritative members of the PD who push to modifications in order to avoid censorship of constitutional character and I read with great attention the perplexities of men like Giuseppe Vacca, Mario Tronti, Pietro Barcelona, Vannino Chiti and of many women who have written the history of feminism in Italy (Dacia Maraini, Livia Turco, Simona Izzo, Stefania Sandrelli, Francesca Marinaro); these with intellectual honesty and in an absolutely secular key have grasped the contradictions, the inconsistencies of the text under consideration. Today, Parliament is at a crossroads: to adopt a bad law that will cause failure to society and which, among other things, will be demolished by the Constitutional Court or to open a serious debate in order to grant rights and guarantees, which are really needed, to couples of heterosexual and homosexual cohabitants. On this ground, the leader of the People's Area - NCD Angelino Alfano has challenged you with his proposal. He proposed to you the deletion of Article 5 with the commitment to deal with the topic of adoptions in the context of his own, that is, that of a whole restyling of the law on adoptions, the elimination of all references to the civil code contained in the proposed text, and especially Article 3 which in fact equate civil unions with marriage, and finally recognize the practice of the uterus in rent as universal crime and therefore prosecutable even if carried out abroad. In return, we would ensure a good law that could have our vote in favour. We hope for serious reflection on the part of our PD colleagues who believe that even within that party today there is a strong debate and that even in that party, however plural, we have the awareness that universal rights and principles cannot be subjugated to the fashions, desires, whims, the interest of a few, even if titled and blasphemed, to the dictatorship of minorities. On this proposal we open a dialogue: if you stay with us we will not escape. [[Applause from the Group (AP) (NCD-UDC) and Senator Bruni. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u30	We greet the students and students of the Department of Law of the University of Parma. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u31	Madam President, in speaking in this debate, I would like to express an uneasiness which I shall cause in the minutes I have available. That is precisely why I would like to say that I shall vote in favour of this measure and not for party discipline, but because I am convinced that we need regulation and recognition of rights for homosexual and heterosexual couples who wish to enter the new institution that I think we will approve next week. I am uncomfortable because I consider the expressions, qualifications and quick liquidations of every voice of dissent on a measure presented already as mediation, during the debate and debate, expressed as an element of grave concern and perplexity, also and above all because rendered in a field in which I imagined that the common political militancy could lead to greater mutual respect. But I see that unfortunately - alas - this was not the case. I demand such a position not because today I think it is useful and necessary - and we are also late - this regulation, but because I also have a personal experience from this point of view. Ten years ago I was the first signatory to a legislative proposal submitted to the Regional Council of Lazio to recognize the same rights reserved to disadvantaged families to all living together in fact, including persons of the same sex, who were in the same conditions. The regional system only allowed me the basis of fact for the creation of rights. Today, in the seat of the national Parliament, we take a step forward and recognize a new legal institution from which the rights and duties of the people who are in the condition laid down in the legislation are derived. However, listening to speeches by colleagues who say that this bill already represents a maximum mediation with respect to their convictions is legitimate. To listen to him from Mr Cirinna's first speech is not correct and for a simple reason: it cannot be said that this text represents the maximum possible mediation when we are all talking about it only today as a Group, because it is the one which is the result of the majority expressed in the Justice Commission. In fact, to state here that we are in favour of the marriage of homosexual couples and that, by presenting this bill on civil unions, we are already doing the best of mediation, it is not - I am sorry - a correct approach. The Constitutional Court, in fact, has stated very clearly, with judgment n.138 of 2010, that there is a need for protection and recognition of full rights, but the institution of marriage cannot be used. And in the legal considerations of the judgment, this is indicated very clearly. It cannot then be argued that one's own personal, legitimate and responsible conviction represents the point on which we average, but which is not recognized in our constitutional order. So first we change the Constitution, and then we can make such a statement, which is made by the first signatory of a text on which we are dealing today. I feel that, from this point of view, a mistake has been made which, only in the last few days, has been attempted to correct. The climate of division, the re-enactment of a series of ghosts and the use of terms I thought were exceeded, at least among us, make me find this debate dated, even if it was backdated to thirty years ago. But this is what we are dealing with today. On the other hand, it would have been more useful to make the most of the fact that we are all in agreement that the new institution of civil unions should be approved as soon as possible. [[Applause from Senator Di Biagio.]] It is not possible then to make an objection, that this immediately finds a demonization, because it is said, being put to the index on some site, that, if you have objections on adoptions, you want to blow the law. With regard to the reasons put forward by my fellow Members on adoption, I would point out that, with regard to children who are already born, who are said to be protected and who cannot be discriminated against, there is already the law on special adoptions. Thanks to Article 44 (d) of the aforementioned law, the case law of merit has now extended in an interpretative way the possibility to adopt also to the cohabitant of the natural parent, even if it was of the same sex. [[Applause from Senator Di Biagio.]] Therefore, for people and children already born, there is already protection. To introduce indirectly, with Article 3 of the bill, or explicitly with Article 5, the stepchild adoption institute, means to take a step forward in our order to allow to obtain a child and to adopt it, despite the law n. 40 of 2004 provides it as a crime, using surrogacy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. Mr Moscardelli (PD). One more minute, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Actually, I've already given you two more. Mr Moscardelli (PD). From this point of view, having heard that there are countries that have an advanced legal civilization because they allow surrogacy makes me think that we are really offline. On the subject of adoptions a more in-depth discourse must be made, apart from: the desire for parenthood is legitimate, but there is a right to be protected, which is that of minor children; the practice of surrogate motherhood must be combated and opposed. And it proved insufficient to have predicted it as a crime only if it was committed in Italy, as required by Law No. 40 of 2004. From this point of view, we will do well to make an excerpt or to intervene legally, so that this practice is really opposed. Otherwise, we go on a drift where individual desire becomes the only subject and only element of judgment, trampling the rights of the weakest, those of children and women who are exploited by those who have money, by homosexual or heterosexual couples who can spend 100,000 euros, or more, to obtain a child. This is absolutely to be rejected. Support for this position cannot be demonised, as I have unfortunately heard in speeches by some of my colleagues. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u32	For the sake of proper management of the House's work, I would like to warn you that the microphone flashes when the minutes allocated by the Groups have passed. I remember that because, of course, this also means that we cannot complete the procedure and have a general rule for everyone. He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I would like to begin my speech with a reflection on the reality that has emerged in the many squares where people have gathered to express their opinion on the draft law under consideration. And I would like to point out that I am referring to all the events, of markedly different footprints, from "Wake Italy," the only family is the happy one of two weeks ago, to the other, the Family Day last Saturday. Well, what I have heard in those squares expresses - in my opinion - a single and fundamental requirement: to see correctly regulated the situation of all those couples who today live in the land of no one. And I am not only talking about homosexual couples, but also heterosexual couples - legitimate forms of aggregation between people - who are not formalized in marriage, who currently do not have adequate forms of protection, except that provided by the different courts through too obnoxious, and often creative, orientations, born precisely on the order of the absence of a legislative plot. It is therefore now time for Parliament to correctly interpret the legitimate demands of the society it represents, and not because this is forced by European Diktats, directives or other decisions, but in fulfillment of our precise duty to represent the nation. And we get here to the punctum dolens. I wonder, in fact, if this bill gives a real answer to the country's question, an answer able to exist and resist in our current legal system. Unfortunately, the answer at the moment can only be negative. The many indications given by the Constitutional Court regarding a path, constitutionally oriented, to be followed in the recognition of the rights of couples formed by persons of the same sex, remain totally disregarded by the bill that we are going to vote on. The bill Cirinnà is a tangle, even more than political, legal that, under the label of the civil union between persons of the same sex, as specific social formation, follows an approach that assimilates and identifies, in everything, the civil union to marriage. And this is not the opinion of the Conservatives and Reformists, but the opinion even expressed by the President emeritus of the Council, Cesare Mirabelli. Yet, Senator Cirinna well should know the tracks within which she should have moved in order to truly guarantee, beyond political opportunism, the much-spoken rights to homosexual couples and - to say to me - not only to those. He has told us this on several occasions the same judge of the laws, before whom he will be inexorably destined to fall this provision: civil union must find its foundation in Article 2 of the Constitution and not in Articles 29, 30 and 31 of the Constitution, which were designed and structured by the Constituent to protect the family as a union of a man and a woman. With this measure we can, at most, deceive all those people who believe a law, any law, that recognizes to them what the fundamental Charter does not allow. Of course, we can't fool the consult. How can I justify - and I quote only this example among the many - the reading of the articles of the civil code for the celebration of marriage, which remind the spouses of their respective rights and duties, that is, those towards their children? This last reminder seems to me the emblematic crowning of the complete overlap with marriage, especially if compared to the next provision of Article 5 regarding the famous stepchild adoption. The aim of this bill should be to create an autonomous legal institution with different characteristics and graduated from marriage itself. If the legal institution is different, the quality and quantity of rights and duties should also be different. But that's not how it is. And what about the fact that the sacred recognition of rights for people who decide to express themselves within the new social formations passes by discrimination based precisely on sexual identity? I think, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a point that deserves serious reflection, without bias and preconceptions. And we Conservatives and Reformists have done so, proposing changes to the text under consideration that make it an effective instrument of protection against the various forms of emotional solidarity unions, avoiding that civil union is accessible only to homosexual couples. Recognizing rights cannot mean denying others, on the basis of a different, but identical, discrimination: that based on sex. Recognizing rights must not mean denying others, I repeat. Moreover, as far as the rights of so-called de facto couples are concerned, the draft law before us tries clumsily to resolve the regulation of this case, limiting itself to a mere rationalization of rules and principles already found in the laws in force. In fact, this chapter refers to the rights of the cohabitants, whatever their sexual orientation, when one of them is held (as already provided for in Law 354 of 1975), or in the case of illness (principle already laid down in Law No 91 of 1999), or as regards the right to occupy the dwelling when one of the two dies (but on this already the Constitutional Court, since 1988, had expressed itself in judgment No 404). The maintenance obligations in the event of cessation of cohabitation, cases of nullity and cases of resolution of cohabitation are still regulated. As you can see, these forecasts are already present in existing legislation which do not involve any actual innovation. After discussing the irrelevance of the second part of the text in our examination, my and your attention must focus on another crucial issue faced by the draft law under consideration, relating to stepchild adoption. The extension of parenthood to homosexual couples, as conceived in the provision, does not aim at the cornerstone of the whole system of adoptions, that is, to protect the interest of the child. It is useless to hide that, through this system, one allows the adoption of the son, even adoptive, that one of the two people had, but it is equally true that in this way one opens the way to the adoption of the son that the other partner somehow - and I stress, in some way - is or could be obtained. This is an exquisitely political choice, given that access to full adoption would certainly not have reached agreement even within the supporters of this measure. Certainly we have not thought of the fundamental protection of minors, but, in the perspective of a mere agreement that displeases everyone and does not satisfy anyone, we wanted to put before the still understandable desire for parenthood at all costs of the same-genre couples to the detriment of the sacred right of the child - in my opinion prevailing - to have a father and a mother. Would it not have been wiser and prudent to follow the path taken by other countries, such as Great Britain, who first approved acts that have granted legal protection to homosexual couples (also with a view to verifying the impact in their socio-cultural contexts), and then move on to the controversial issue of adoptions? We have tried and are still trying to avoid all this, proposing also the deletion of Article 5, in order to postpone the issue of adoptions to a more organic reform of the law 4 May 1983, n. 184, but clashing with the inexplicable indifference of the Democratic Party. I will conclude by raising one more problem. The secrecy about the identity of biological parents underlying medically assisted procreation techniques is placed on a direct collision course with an antagonistic legal principle now established at international level: to know their origins as the fundamental right of the child. This is expressed in the Convention on the Rights of the Child adopted in New York and transposed into national legislation such as the German one. The awareness of being children persons and not subject to family membership, rather than to another, has led the Conservative and Reformist Group to draw up a series of amendments aimed at ensuring that this fundamental right is respected. The reasons outlined so far, unless there are desirable reversals of course, lead us to reaffirm our convinced opposition to this bill, which represents a missed opportunity to respond to such complex and delicate problems as those highlighted in the intervention. [[Applause from the CoR and AP groups (NCD-UDC and Senator Floris. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u34	She's enlisted to speak Senator Spilabotte. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u35	Madam President, we are living historic days, which see the House discussing civil unions. As Senator Lo Giudice said this morning in his speech, the first bill on the subject of civil unions was presented about thirty years ago. We are, therefore, very late and we come with a text that - alas - is far too outdated. Together with some Eastern European countries, we have remained among the last in the European panorama that we have not yet regulated the matter. I have been careful and listened to so many speeches in favour and against the so-called Cirinna bill. I am sorry to have listened a few minutes ago to the intervention of Senator Marinello, who as an argument to discredit the rapporteur wanted to use her commitment to protect the rights of puppies of dogs and cats. He, however, provided me with an assist on a silver platter. In this regard, I would like to remind you of the arguments used by those who support the no and opposed the equalisation of civil union with marriage, in order to make clear the level of the debate that has taken place from this point of view. Some of our eminent colleagues have said that while marriage is null and void if it is not consumed, it is not possible to understand well who goes to determine what kind of relationship there is between those who conclude civil unions. Someone else had the courage to say that the presence not only of the mother, but also of the father allows our species to have a greater possibility of development and with a brain greater than that of the other animals of our stature. These were the arguments used in favor of the argument that civil union cannot be equated with marriage. Then I heard what I call, in this and in other places, the well-alternists, that is, all those who remind us that there is much more to be done in this country: there are the issues of work, emigration and the economy. These are all issues that this Government is fully concerned with. Let me remind you that we have inherited a country with a very high unemployment rate, with a GDP of -2.3% and now we can look at positive numbers, i.e. at +0.8%. We are, therefore, dealing at 360 degrees with the recovery and revival of our country, while those same people whom I call well-altrist, who have had the responsibility of government in the last twenty years, have actually taken care to do much more and have left us all this in inheritance. Furthermore, I do not believe that civil rights are something to be dealt with in the second place, because I believe that they are absolutely central to the lives of citizens. I was saying it's a historic day. Well, Senator Zanda and President Renzi didn't come back. I thank Senator Cirinna and my colleagues who, in the Commission for justice, have given their souls to bring this text as it is to this House. It is - in my opinion - not a text that is a downward compromise, but one of the highest mediations that could be done, because it allows us at least the recognition and extension of social rights. As far as stepchild adoption is concerned, I do not think that this issue should be deleted, but that it is the most correct proposal possible to guarantee the right of children to live in a loving family context, to be loved by parents, of whatever sex they are. Under no circumstances does the text mention recognition of the right of parents to have children, but of the right of children to be loved and to have recognized their right to be loved in their families. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude. Mr Spilabotte (PD). It has also been used as an argument for miscommunication that stepchild adoption opens up to the use of the practice of the uterus for rent. It's not written anywhere. There is Law No. 40 of 2004, which is bad, which has been removed from the judges' judgments and which I hope this Parliament will give way to give a decent law to our country. The text in question does not mention it and I have not heard any of those who have made heartfelt speeches against this issue say, instead, that it is a practice adopted by 84 percent of heterosexual couples, who consider it more morally acceptable to buy a child abroad, rather than adopt one, since they have the possibility to do so in our country. I have never heard them move a finger or make an accurate intervention, as I have heard them do, at the time that said practice is followed only by 2% of gay couples. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scoma. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, so much has been said in the public debate on this bill; philosophers, jurists and clergymen have expressed their views, as have so many citizens, in an organized and non-organised way, have made their voices heard in one sense or another. Certainly, in such a whirlwind of statements and interviews, it has happened to listen to inaccuracies and statements a bit 'dirty. On the other hand, arguments that touch so closely the sensitivity of each of us arouse emotions, which can sometimes compromise a lucid analysis. There are, however, some firm points that should never be lost in sight, not even at a stage such as this one. We all agree that rights cannot be reserved only for certain categories of citizens, depriving them of certain fundamental safeguards, which are also in situations which are subjectively similar, but which are legally, so far, irrelevant. The legislator has the task of responding to requests from a society in continuous transformation, adapting the order to the developments of collective consciousness, even in such delicate issues, as that of homosexual unions. However, the right appeal to give protection to all citizens cannot imply the claim to provide the same protection for all. The principle of equality must be interpreted in the sense of substantial equality, according to which equal situations must be treated in a homogeneous manner, but in different situations. In this case, according to the norms of the Constitution, as interpreted by the recent judgments of the Constitutional Court, the family as a natural society founded on marriage is a unique, to be protected as such and in a distinct way compared to other social formations, such as homosexual unions. Instead, what Cyrinna's bill proposes is a substantial equivalence between marriage and homosexual union. By entering into the substance of the draft law, the rights relating to citizenship, pensions, successions and support to the partner are provided in the same way, both in the first and in the second case. For example, citizenship is acquired after six months of legal residence on the territory or three years after marriage or civil union and, for inheritance, the rights for the members of civil union are the same as legitimate marriage: half each, apart from the share for children. Such an equivalence is contrary to the guidelines of the Council, compared to what is written in our Constitution. The recognition of safeguards in favour of persons of the same sex, who want to start a journey of life together, cannot be achieved, according to the Court, only through the equivalence of homosexual unions to marriage. Parliament, as confirmed by the different experiences of other European countries, must introduce an alternative and different form from marriage. A overlap between marriage and homosex unions is not even required of our country from Europe. The European Court of Human Rights has in fact expressed the need for our country to have legislation to protect those who want to form a union with persons of the same sex, but it has not imposed any legal form, nor suggested any form of protection, instead leaving to the discretion of the national legislator the concrete definition of rights and duties. Another very controversial point concerns the possibility of adopting the partner's son, the so-called stepchild adoption. At present it applies in a residual way and in particular cases of minors in severe difficulties and heterosexual couples: the bill under consideration also includes its extension to cases of homosexual couples. This rule opens up a double front for discussion: that concerning the possibility or right of a couple to have a child and that related to it, relating to surrogacy. From the first point of view and from the distant, nature has imposed to the human being unavoidable conditions to procreate and contribute to the survival of the species. A child can only be the result of sexual union between a man and a woman, who become the parents of the child or the child. When either partner or both are physically unable to contribute to procreation, ordering allows certain conditions for science to come in support with techniques that allow to bypass the problem; alternatively, you can choose the path of adoption. We are still well within a paradigm that sees a couple made up of a man and a woman. We believe that we must oppose the attempt to introduce the possibility of having children through ways that are foreign not only to the nature of the human being, but also to the culture and Christian traditions of our country. Children are not a right, but a direct consequence of a heterosexual union and a family made up of a man and a woman. We cannot imagine even in this field an equalization, in the surreptitious way of the Cirinna bill, between traditional family and homosexual unions. From the point of view of the risks of surrogacy, the Cirinna text indirectly encourages the use of unauthorized conduct in our country, which are very expensive, therefore practicable by a narrow circle of people, and which in many cases involve the exploitation of the body of women. This bill therefore represents a daring and unconstitutional attempt to regulate a very sensitive matter, which undoubtedly needs to be in the attention of Parliament and the Parliament itself. Instrumentalizing this need to fill a regulatory vacuum, which also exists, by introducing elements of clear contradiction with what was written in the Constitution and recalled by the Constitutional Court, seems to be a way of doing a completely incorrect policy. Drawing a political panorama to present a party that wants to defend and protect citizens, opposed to another blindly conservative party that remains anchored in a distant past, is not an acceptable operation. This is even more true if we consider that, as usual, the Government aims to have the law passed as soon as possible, with little regard for the contributions that can come from the parliamentary debate and only to allow the Premier to claim a new result achieved in the media. Even this time, unfortunately, we had to see a new telenovela all inside the Democratic Party, which managed to divide itself along new axes, those between Catholics and non-Catholics. For the truth, in the last few days, the majority seemed more available to the parliamentary confrontation, recognizing that the delicacy of the matter strongly advised against putting into practice the usual proof of strength. Forza Italia, once again a constructive and responsible opposition, was the first to put forward alternative proposals. The texts of the legislative proposals of our parliamentarians represent a synthesis in which we combine the rights for unions formed by persons of the same sex and the respect of some essential and undeniable points, such as the uniqueness of marriage and the protection of minors. They are solutions that guarantee fundamental rights to gay couples, just as an important part of society asks us to do, the Constitution indicates to us and calls on Europe to do so; at the same time, they are solutions that respect the basic sensibilities of the more traditional feeling of an equally large part of our fellow citizens. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u38	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u39	Madam President, at yesterday's sitting, at the start of our debate, Senator Cirinna stated with great ardour that the discipline of civil unions that she proposed was not absolutely comparable to that of marriage; already, but immediately after her, my colleague Nitto Palma pointed out how the bill - I quote from her speech but also from the lexical text of the bill - provides that two adult persons of the same sex constitute a civil union through a declaration before the civil state officer and the presence of two witnesses. As you can see, this text is not similar, not similar, but identical to the legislation of the constitution of the marriage provided for in the Civil Code. Therefore, if the text put forward by my colleague Mr Cirinna became law, we would have a civil code that has one part dedicated to homosexuals and another to heterosexuals: specifically, citing and referring to the project of my colleague Mr Cirinna, Articles 1 to 10 and Articles 11 to 23. In my opinion, this is aberrant. I understand the considerations of many colleagues who say that the Constitution comes before the civil code. I agree, but beyond the unsatisfying rhetoric of this statement, why do we have a Constitution that allows civil law to distinguish between rules for homosexuals and rules for heterosexuals? It is aberrant not only for our democratic Constitution, but also for the modern idea of the civil code with which in the nineteenth century we came out of the ancient regime after the disintegration that the French Revolution had operated. But then, what is the point of the statement made in the premise by my colleague Cirinna, then attacked frontally in the speech followed by his colleague Nitto Palma? You think that the same dissolution of civil union takes place through the laws on separation and divorce, that is, the same rules that lead to the conclusion of marriage. Not only that, but beyond this identity - not analogy - between the constitutive act and the final act of civil unions with marriage, in the text of the bill Cirinna we read, in article 3, paragraph 3, that apply to civil unions the same and identical provisions regulating marriage. I also agree with those who said that our debate should not be a tantalizing ping-pong between yesterday's Constitutional Court rulings and - hopefully in the intentions of the promoters - tomorrow's Constitutional Court rulings to achieve equalisation, but once we have demonstrated - and Senator Nitto Palma has done so - that we are faced with an overlap between the institution of civil unions and that of homosexual marriage, I wonder: why? What's the point? Isn't it a shame with respect to constitutional freedoms and individual rights to provide a different treatment for couples in fact? "Convivenze" is the term used in Article 11 to Article 23 of the legislation proposed by Mrs Cirinna. Aren't these social formations too? Do they not also have these rights to the same rights and expectations? Unless he sneaked into imagining an incentive to induce actually heterosexual couples to contract marriage; if that were the case, it would be really mean thinking about the history of our family right. In the history of our family law, the Royal Reform of the mid-1970s is free to run because it has from its what Fortuna-Baslini had established, that is, that legislation not so much on the so-called divorce as on the dissolution of the civil bonds of marriage. But then there is to be wondered if he was right this morning, in a beautiful article on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) between interventions and replicas, my fellow citizen Paolo Cirino Pomicino, who observes that a text like this is imaginable only in a sensibility and a culture indifferent to freedom, diversity. After all, before the term "gay," which is twenty years old in our vocabulary, the homosexual condition was once linked to the term "different." Cirino Pomicino is right when he says that, at least in the West, diversity is no longer synonymous with marginalization, suffering, sometimes persecution. In the West, diversity, both in nature and in society (for example, to refer to Senator Marinello's intervention), is considered a resource, a wealth to be developed and protected. It is protected and respected when the civil rights of different people are equated, in the specific case of homosexuals and heterosexuals. But, with this statement on the cult of diversity, it is necessary to justify why at the institute that is born (civil unions) couples of fact, heterosexuals - that kind of garbage basket that the bill Cirinna provides, from Article 11 to 23 - have no right. I don't want to make a confrontation between numerical situations; Senator Caliendo did it, Senator Palma took it back and I don't know how reliable it is. The point is not this; the point is that the homosexual condition must be accompanied with all rights, with all possible equalizations and pacifications, not with the repeal of this concession, not with the repeal of diversity, inventing ad hoc this hypocritical instrument of civil unions, which today seems to dictate positive privileges for the homosexual condition, but that is not always said to be so (mys does not want to be a threat). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you have to finish. COMPAGNA (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). I conclude by saying that if it were thought that equality of rights should be accompanied by a lexical homologation with which to define profoundly different unions, such as marriage and homosexual love (very respectable, very important in history, poetry, literary history: there is a beautiful poem by Pier Paolo Pasolini dedicated to his mother, in which he feels with suffering his condition as a homosexual) this would mean shame, almost discriminate (it was not the case of Pasolini, who lived with suffering but not with shame his condition of diversity). This takes us substantially far from that Western civilization. [[Applause from Senators Caliendo, Giovanardi and Perrone]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u40	Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u41	Madam President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, here we are today debating and deciding on something that goes beyond us and affects many people, who many of you call "different" or with worse titles (of which we have excellent creators in this room), but certainly equal in the need to see recognized the most beloved and sold out feeling of the history of humanity: love. Equal persons, therefore, needy persons of that universal right that can be called the right of love, so much so that God himself is considered love and the ancient Greeks even had two: Eros and Agape. This is not a progressive law; it is a law, just to use the usual motto, which Europe asks of us. We are here to chase other countries, such as Spain, which adopted the Civil Unions Act in 2005, Portugal, which adopted it in 2009, France, which adopted it in 2013, Iceland and the United States, which adopted it in 2015. There, in the neoliberal country par excellence, the Supreme Court ruled that marriage is a right guaranteed by the Constitution also to homosexual couples. And from all these countries there have never been any disturbing or worrying news about the consequences of the application of such laws. In fact, studies say otherwise. This law, on the one hand, is the due and necessary reorganization of what has been sanctioned for a long time in so many democratic countries (even the European Court of Human Rights in 2015 condemned Italy in order not to foresee any form of recognition of unions between persons of the same sex), on the other hand, this law, although questionable in form and structure, which has renzianaly not passed to the scrutiny of the Commission, is however a Copernican revolution in the ideological and social aspect, linked to gender identity and human and civil rights; a revolution linked to social recognition and the protection of those who for various reasons, legitimate or illegitimate, cannot appeal to the institution of marriage, still too hegemonic as regards sexual heterogeneity. A small amendment to the Constitution would have sufficed, as in Ireland, and we would no longer have needed this law and its compromises, but unfortunately the perception of the seriousness of constitutional changes is inversely proportional to the perception of the seriousness of the application of a natural law. This is what's happening. Let us not hide behind politically correct expressions. I suffered and voted no to constitutional reform, because it violated the rights of all citizens, because it prevented each of us from choosing our representative in Parliament, but nobody sent me e-mails, nobody made me a request, none of the thinkers came forward trying to convince me otherwise. Now that a minority of citizens are given rights, many people stand up on barricades to prevent civil unions from being recognised. Let us not hide behind politically correct expressions. The so-called trade-off problem, intended in the sense of political choices aimed at consensus in terms of voting, does not concern me, because I am not in a traditional party or an autocratic movement chasing votes, but I just - it is to be said - have to be accountable to those whom I consider my constituents and to all the citizens who engage in real and digital life. I just need democratic and respectful responses to human and constitutional rights to confront. Gian Antonio Stella reminds us, in his book, how much homophobia has been present in human history, without any exclusion, passing from the ancients to the present day, reminding us in particular that until recently the refusal and contempt for homosexuals was transversal and bipartisan. From the Nazi persecutions with extermination in the camps to the compulsory hormonal care of the British, from right to left, all together passionately, passing through the center and without forgetting the Church; unfortunately my dear Church, also far from the invocations of many internal minorities, including Don Gallo, to me so dear. In this regard I would like to remind Alfredo Ormando that in 1998 he set himself on fire in St. Peter's Square to remember all those who suffered because of themselves, innocent, in their natural nature. These are the words he left behind: I hope they will understand the message I want to give: it is a form of protest against the Church that demonizes homosexuality, demonizing at the same time nature, because homosexuality is her daughter. Two are the real and leading ideological concepts, linked to this bill: homosexuality itself on the one hand, and homosexual parenthood on the other. But if a non-homosexual parent can have a homosexual child, I do not understand why the mutual denial of that proposition, valid in logic and content, cannot be valid. I do not wonder why a homosexual parent can have a child; I wonder, instead: why not? I do not ask why a homosexual parent cannot have a family; instead, I wonder: why not? To whom do we entrust abandoned children? Ah, I forgot, abandoned by who? From a family! From a traditional family. Traditional? And on what tradition? On what traditions are our families based? The position of the woman has been compared to her husband for a few decades. Are these the traditions? Until recently there was a crime of honor, until 1975 there was a man in charge of the family, for years in contrast with our Constitution, but no one ever said anything. 80% of sexual abuse of children takes place in the family, in our families and another small part in the parish. Are these your traditions? Is this your family? The one you're talking about? [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bencini and Taverna]] Italy is first in Europe for sex tourism. What are you going to do there? Are these your traditions? Only in my Busto Arsizio are performed on average 200 abortions per year. From the report of the Ministry of Health on the social protection of motherhood and for voluntary termination of pregnancy we find that there are almost 100,000 abortions per year! As are 100,000 children who are missing from the appeal among illegal immigrants. What happened to them? Could these women be helped differently? Why do you Catholics not take care of all these children and, pardon, fetuses with the same fervor as today in the comfortable armchairs of the TV lounges? Don't they have natural rights, too? Shut up. Of course, what is there to say? How many could have been saved and entrusted to whom do you want to love? How many in front of non-life would have chosen differently? What about the example? What do you have to say? Half is separated, and more than half of the unseparated betrays. He betrays his husband, betrays his wife, and at the same time all his children. These are kids, too. Let us return to the abandoned children: to whom do we give all our abandoned children? How many types of educational family different from a heterosexual couple do we know? Family houses, lay and religious institutes, communities. Yet we tolerate these, indeed, in many cases we value them and bring them, for example, and in some we lock up even the old and the disabled. Are they not examples of families? Do you think the nun of the Blues Brothers is better than a homosexual couple to look after a boy? The core of the issue is all about the relationship and the presence of sexual intercourse and its typology. The dimension of the sexual relationship with which a union manifests its love. Avoiding it or by practicing it. Throughout the course of all humanity, societies and religions have always focused on the control of sexuality, in one way or another, from one to the other, always with two objectives: on the one hand, to guarantee the social balances and the very survival of society and, on the other, to exercise the power of control of the ruling classes and the religious system. This dimension of sexual intercourse and the forms it foreshadows is decisive in the discrimination of the lawful and the unlawful, the border between the love and the exploitation of the body, the insult and the violence towards the other. It is easy to distinguish where the relationship of reciprocity is lacking and where everything is reduced to commodification, violence and rape, but homosexuality is not part of this speech. This belongs to the collective, while pedophilia is the monstrous thing you have in mind. In fact, in many of the above-mentioned families and communities the real horror has insinuated, that of the abuse of minors, paedophilia and violence, sometimes emertiously hidden by the community and religious figures responsible or guilty, disguised by the word "sin", easy curtain, surrogate of the word "reed." If we can rightly include paedophilia in the politics of disgust and disorder of sexuality, we cannot and must not do so for homosexuality, defined by the World Health Organization, on 17 May 1990, a simple natural variant of human behavior (but perhaps we all thought of the World Football Championship). The yes to this law, without the blackmail of trust, seen as an extension of rights that nothing takes away from the freedom of others, is really simple, if not for a critical point, the one relative to adoption; but critical only if interpreted as a means of biech will of overpowering others for the satisfaction of own narcissistic selfishness; selfishness, we want to point out, not for the exclusive use of a particular sexual identity. However, with regard to this point, the Cirinna law does not allow adoption except in the extraordinary case provided for by the 1984 Act on the Adoption of the Son of the Companion, which can be followed carefully by the legislation without incurring the ratification of the illegal practice of the uterus for rent, prohibited by Law No 40. It's forbidden for everyone. Therefore, if we stick to this point, we do not fear any particular problems. We are conscious of leaving an important window open for the future, that of adoption, and that of going as far as the total recognition of marriage also for couples of the same kind. Recognition that in many countries, as already mentioned, it has already happened and that we will be able to take place in the future, perhaps from the evidence of the positive results of this law in the other States. We of the X Movement have placed on the web the bill Cirinna, subjecting it to the opinion of the citizens of the network. We have seen that the network to date is not absolutely representative from the point of view of universality and representativeness, especially when the votes and answers are few hundred or few thousand; but we know that neither is the square, whose numbers are now manipulated by the media and by the promoters themselves. Both, however, are representative samples that must be considered and respected. With regret we must also say that the issue of civil unions has denoted a great incivilization of many, both in the network and in the square, from both factions, which have granted the media yet another distraction from what really grabs our Republic: the lack of work. Don Gallo, with whom I wanted to finish my speech, said: I am not going to replace the widespread cliché that presents the homosexual all in negative (...) with the one that presents it all in positive (...); there is no unique and recognizable type of homosexuality and homosexuality. There's only one person. It seems to me that I can tell everyone, especially those who call themselves Christian, that listening to people reveals a large common basis, where differences are far less relevant than we think. Being able to hold together respect for diversity and the joy of finding harmony is the secret of coexistence. When the festive assembly of the "Genoa pride" was convened, I suffered from the silence of my Church (...). It was a good opportunity to open dialogue (...). These souls must be saved not from their sexual orientation, but from loneliness. I was there, I was in the colored cart (...) and Jesus was among us. (...) Love between equals is no different. Perhaps today, for the first time, I will vote together with the majority and it will be a rare case where the needs of a minority, indeed the rights of a minority, will be made law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, please finish. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). President. - The next item is the report (Doc. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). I conclude with one last sentence: "Woman, here is your son!"; son "Here is your mother." It was not a natural family, but it was the sign of God's love, which goes beyond the laws and enshrines the love that comes from him. Let us take an example from the philosophy of that man, an unmarried wanderer, followed by a small and varied humanity. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, PD and M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Angioni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not always the case, but there are legislative measures which more than others represent a hope for citizens or for some of them: an instrument to improve their living conditions or even just to legally assert their own social status. I believe that the Cirinna bill is one of these measures. A bill that concerns two distinct cases - civil unions and cohabitations - is united, however, by the objective of the legal recognition of affective and family relationships, which the legislator finally considers to be fully worthy of social consideration. After decades of confrontation and clashes on issues that have been considered to date by Parliament as non-priority, and therefore always deferable, only the jurisprudence has succeeded in recent years to give some response to situations that, without regulatory predictions, before creating forms of discrimination between citizens, offend the sense of dignity and humanity of people. The one we are examining today is a measure expected and required by thousands of people of different sexual orientations and generations, but I would say even earlier urged by our Constitutional Charter in its fundamental principles in order to overcome those forms of social discrimination among the citizens of our country. It is a measure called for by our Constitution when it recalls the inviolable rights of man, when it affirms the right of equal social dignity of citizens, when it asks the law to guarantee to children born outside marriage all legal and social protection. Madam President, some political forces in this House again yesterday made constitutional exceptions to this bill. On the contrary, I am convinced that it, by overcoming a guilty, or even malicious regulatory delay, will finally and fully apply our Constitution. In these months we have often heard of a reform that risks to certify definitively the dissolution of the Italian family. I believe the opposite is true, and if anything the greatest contribution to its dissolution gives it to those who do not give up on the fact that the concept of family unit has already changed also in our country and in the conscience of our citizens. This is demonstrated by the data on the huge decrease in the number of marriages in our country and those on the exponential growth of children born out of marriage, throughout Europe and also in our country. It is already today, therefore, more correct to think of a family with different faces and expressions, but always family. In particular, with civil unions we are not trying to protect - as it were - indistinct social communities; we are recognizing a family connotation. Family that must not be built at the table by the legislator or in the laboratory of some scientist, but that already exists. [[Applause from Senator Mattesini.]] Thousands of families that already exist and that we cannot ignore again. On the contrary, in a certain sense, fighting for the legal recognition of these new expressions represents the most concrete revitalization of the concept of family (from the flight of the family paradoxically we return, after decades, to a new affirmation of its social and institutional value, even if in different forms); it means claiming the right not to be simply tolerated, but recognized as citizens with full rights and as an expression of the social community of our country. After decades of unnecessary attempts, the time has come today to give answers to these aspirations for the affirmation of rights and in which our country assumes full responsibility. This is why it is not even conceivable to delete Article 5 of the so-called Cirinna bill, referring the comparison on stepchild adoption to another phase and postponing the protection of the emotional continuity not so much of parents, but of thousands of children who, not in the future but already today, would have more opportunities with the approval of that norm. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Angioni, I invite you to conclude. ANGIONES (PD). I shall conclude, Madam President. And then, how long should you wait? To postpone once again the discussion of this topic undoubtedly very delicate for its implications of different nature (and only because, let's face it all, up to now we have not been able to find a normative formulation that almost prevents the use of practices already considered illegal in our country and, as we know, practiced for the vast majority by heterosexual couples) would in fact make the topic disappear again from public and parliamentary debate who knows for how many years. This is the time to decide and we are already late in doing so today. Madam President, I have concluded... Senator Angioni, I invite you to actually conclude because you have already had two minutes extra time. ANGIONES (PD). Today I consider it a privilege for the Senate to help legislate to recognise new rights to citizens who are still deprived of them today. I believe that when we recognise new rights to citizens, there is a particular burden of responsibility for all of us. I am sure that we will be able to take on this responsibility by voting in a firm way in favour of the draft law under consideration. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u44	Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to immediately link myself to what I have heard saying: when we lose the right to be different, we certainly also lose the privilege of being free. My speech will be based mainly on this principle. When politicians and Parliament sleep, it is obvious that the magistrates take their place. The exchange of roles that often takes place in Italy in the field of civil rights immediately raises the question whether there is a distortion of democracy and the rule of law. Biological Testament and euthanasia, stem cell experimentation and embryo exchange, abortion pill (the famous RU486) and conscientious objection to voluntary interruptions of pregnancy, heterologous fertilization and civil unions have remained issues on which for twenty years the legislator has not been able or wanted to make any decision, leaving the field free to Italian and European judges, to regional municipal administrators and even to administrative justice. At this point it is therefore legitimate to ask whether the Constitutional Court, acting in hundreds of judgments to protect the rights of the person on life, death and sex, has acted in accordance with its prerogatives, or has gone beyond its powers. In the absence of satisfactory legislation or in the presence of abnormal legislation, the constitutional judges, requested by the lower courts, have protected those rights, improperly defined bioethical issues, which the legislation has not been able to guarantee. Moreover, it was not only the Council that filled the gaps in order to meet the needs of citizens, since the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg also intervened in order to surrogate the legislative vacuum and correct the unreasonable measures against a confessional background voted by parliamentarians under pressure from ecclesiastical hierarchies. Law No 40 of 2004 on assisted fertilization has been submitted innumerable times to the examination of the courts and the Constitutional Court, which in eleven years has issued a considerable number of judgments that have rewritten the entire legislation, dismantling all the obligations and prohibitions contrary to the rights of the person imposed by the legislators to the generality of the Italians, lay people and Catholics, believers and non-believers. Those rights that citizens could have won by voting have been guaranteed by the intervention of judges of every order and grade, including Europeans. The years passed, majorities of centre-right and centre-left alternated, but Parliament took no decision. Let us now come to the telenovela of the unions in fact. In the early 2000s, when Italy began to talk about regulating de facto unions on the French model of civil solidarity pacts (PACS), most European countries had already resolved the issue with more or less liberal laws. Without mentioning the case of Denmark, which had already recognized homosexual marriages in 1991, in 2015 14 countries in the European economic area were with gay weddings and almost all the others with civil unions, with the exception of Greece, the Balkan countries and Eastern Europe. In Italy, however, resistance remained tenacious. Despite the openings of Pope Bergoglio, still in the summer of 2015 the shadow of the clergy overshadowed yet another inconclusive parliamentary debate. He declared Cardinal Nunzio Galantino, Secretary General of the IEC that the Cirinna text on civil unions wants to make an ideological forcing (...) it is not appropriate to call with the same name objectively different realities, such as civil unions and family founded on marriage. Cardinal Bagnasco insisted: Applying the same rights as the family to other types of relationships (...) is also an incorrect criterion logically. In the face of so much political ineptitude, in 2010 the Constitutional Court urged Parliament to discipline the rights of gay couples with the same records reserved for spouses, while the cases resolved by judicial means multiplied: in January 2013 the Supreme Court opened the possibility that the children had grown up by gay couples; in November 2013 the court for minors of Bologna legitimated the adoption of a child by a single woman in the United States; in August 2014 the court for minors of Rome sanctioned the possibility of adoption by the biological mother of the daughter of the partner (i.e. legitimized the so-called stepchild adoption, which makes us so afraid); in February 2015 the Supreme Court decreed that the union between persons of the same sex can acquire a degree of protection and protection comparable to that of marriage, even if two homosexuals did not allow Italian law to marry. The lack of the legislator - continued the sentence - is particularly serious because in transgressing the pronouncements of the Constitutional Court repeated over time: it potentially undermines the responsibility of the judicial authority. The spread of stable, homosexual and heterosexual cohabitations had now become an engaging issue even a mass of minors (estimated of 100,000 children with at least one of the homosexual parents) that Italian law could no longer ignore. In autumn 2014, the initiatives taken by the individual cities, despite the declarations of illegitimacy of the interior minister Angelino Alfano, were implemented in the major municipalities with left-wing mayors: Milan, Rome, Bologna, Florence and Naples as well as in a capital, Verona, administered by the Legist mayor Flavio Tosi. In a system based on codes like ours, there are those who consider it legitimate to challenge the courts when they replace Parliament; but the reality of the political-institutional system is quite different: it is the chronic legislative vacuum that provokes the intervention of the courts when the protection of a constitutionally protected right is at stake. This and only this is the reason why the superior courts have formulated numerous references to the legislator both in the presence of center-right and center-left majorities. There is no doubt that the second Republic was the blackest period for civil rights, despite the alternation with the Government of moderates and progressives, which could have met the different orientations of the citizens. In other European countries, where political forces of opposing inspiration have alternated with the Government, the laws on couples in fact remained in force even when the right, like the conservatives in England or the people in Spain, took over the socialists and the reformers. That is why the decisions of the Constitutional Court, when deleting the confessional aspects of laws such as No. 40 of 2004 on assisted fertilization, and when implementing denied rights, as is the case with de facto unions, are legally legitimate and politically necessary. So, in such a situation, it happens that many Italian couples, born in our country, are forced to expatriate in order to have the recognition of a right. I am not referring to the right to have children, which, as I have heard in this House, is not written anywhere, but to equality, both formal and substantive, which is written in the Constitution in the first and second paragraphs of Article 3. So then we are forced to see the so-called travels of love. It is therefore the right not to have, but to be equal, without discrimination of sex, race, language, religion, political opinions, personal and social conditions. Thus one is forced to expatriate, not only to be able to marry, but also to have children: let us remember that the law on assisted fertilization, before the Constitutional Court demolished it, prohibited almost everything from sterile couples. We are forced to expatriate to adopt - less and less unfortunately - to study or work or in both cases, until we expatriate to have the opportunity to realize. Many then go abroad to take care of themselves and, finally, they go abroad to die, since there is no law that gives our citizens the freedom, recognized in other laws, to choose on their own end of life [[Applause from Senators Albano, Bignami and Cirinna]] All this creates, in my opinion, horrible discrimination, even within the ranks of the same discriminated against, the sick or the needy of what is missing here, between those who can afford certain rights and those who cannot, thanks to income or the possession of information. This puts the whole country in an ahistorical condition, within a legal framework completely outside reality. The law that wants to introduce surrogates of marriage between homosexuals, calling them civil unions, is already a compromise, but it would fill at least a piece of distance between real life and written law, between society and politics. These families, like it or not to a front that professes to be Catholic and that is also sending to the attic the image of openness given by Pope Francis to his Church, exist and exist minors, whose future depends on the keeping of the bonds that support them, or on the security networks that take place, if those bonds for whatever reason jump. They are not children of a minor god, as are not those almost 140,000 children born last year out of marriage, which are a third of the total number of newborns. Going down in the streets in the name of the children, to lower the rights of a part of them, is really a difficult thing to explain in a normal country. Thus one has a false representation of conflicting positions, which creates a deep fracture between the world of principles and the world of interests. This has been explained very well in an article by Senator Luigi Manconi, which I invite you to read, in which it is stated that the arguments of the advocates of rights, and in particular of the rights for sexual minorities, are represented as an expression of a selfishly individualist, consumeristic and libertarian-libertarian conception of life and human relations, which would find its foundation in the absolutization of desire as the supreme criterion and dominant function of social life; to the contrary, critics of an overexpansive and egalitarian interpretation of civil unions, would refer to strong and non-negotiable values, to an understanding but rigorous moral, to a strict conception of public ethics intended to combine virtuously with private ones. All this risks reducing that same mobilization to the sum of a series of individual interests, in turn the result of selfish particularisms. That's not the way it is. This is a relationship between people of the same sex, formed around some ends: reciprocity and mutual trust, a shared life project, the promise of mutual support, the desire for continuity over time and a future perspective. In other words, at least in intentions, we are in the presence of an emotional relationship built on strong values and endowed with its intense morality. Not by chance, its detractors try to discredit that relationship through a sort of reduction to mere economic contract. Thus this civil union would lose any relevance and above all any moral depth. Hearing the speeches of some of our colleagues in this House, it seems that a crusade has started in defence of these poor children, to the point of reaching statements of the kind: the presence not only of the mother but also of the father allows our species to have a greater possibility of development, with a brain larger than the other animals than our stature. Then I ask these crusaders where they were fighting while unaccompanied foreign minors arrived in Italy having before them a long journey through Europe. All children between thirteen and sixteen years silent, fragile, helpless; come mainly from Egypt, Eritrea, Somalia, Albania, Gambia; when they arrive, because of the 3,200 dead at sea in 2015, 700 are children or even newborns. Yet a year ago, on January 13, 2015, the interior minister Angelino Alfano launched an alarm: 3,707 unaccompanied minors (of the 14,243 registered) had disappeared from our country's reception centres, only in 2014. In 2015, the number of missing minors almost doubled: they were 5,902 to 30 November. Our moralist crusaders, who defend the high value of the family that must start from the defense of the child-son, where were they to fight, while these children ran dangerous risks of exploitation such as prostitution, organ trafficking, early marriages, labour exploitation? Were they on the gallop to ask the European Union for a common regulatory framework, an automatic visa that guarantees the protection and traceability of minors at the same time as they arrive in our countries? A dedicated European fund? The streamlining of temporary custody practices for available households? Absolutely not. They had to win the great battle to prevent helpless minors from ending up in the perverse jerseys of a homosexual couple, which could profoundly compromise their intellectual growth due to the lack of educative guidance of the natural opposite sex partner. So they all stand in the Commission and in the Chamber not in defense of the need for love, a lifeblood for the growth of a child, but in defense of the indispensable need for the growth of a mother and a father. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u46	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, in the five minutes I have available, I believe that we should make a more detailed contribution on this subject, considering that the more general speeches have been addressed by those who have had more time to discuss the issues in a more comprehensive way. Our role as legislators I mean it as an attempt to try to address issues and realities that exist in our country, so I appreciate the approach of the various colleagues who underline the specific contents of this bill. But we must not hide the fact that there is also the broader theme of the battle of rights, which includes objectives greater than those attainable through this bill. They are rights that evolve with laws, but also with judgments and appeals. In our country there is a broader dynamic that makes things progress and, therefore, we draw trajectories for the near future. This has also been said in this House: equalitarian marriage, liberalised adoptions for singles and homosexual couples, maternity surrogacy. They are trajectories that are launched for the future and that try to build on this measure. This requires us to make a more comprehensive assessment of some issues because today's enactment of a law means trying to write it well to understand what kind of opportunities and possibilities there are for the future. It is important what we are doing, the outcome and also how we are doing it. The law must be done. This has been widely said and the PD Group has achieved this type of determination in a compact and conscious way. I want to go into the rights of the child. When we talk about the rights of adults - it has also been said today in various interventions - we talk about the exercise of freedoms; while the rights of the child need one thing: the exercise of duties by adults because they are not able to guarantee their rights themselves. This is a profoundly true point addressed in our own legislation in the adoption law. With the adoption discipline, we are concerned with assessing the ability of adults to take on duties. We want guarantees from those adults; we want those adults to be able to take on those duties and, therefore, to guarantee in fact the rights of children. They are objective guarantees because the law speaks of three years of marriage or stable coexistence. They are subjective guarantees because we want to see and analyze that couple and evaluate their suitability for adoption. I, then, say: no. I do not believe that in the trajectory of the evolution of rights there is space for the adoption of children by homosexual couples and by singles because, when we evaluate the realities of those children, we discover that they are children who have lived an abandonment and trauma that we certainly would not wish anyone. We are in a position to assess the family within which these children can be fully welcomed with their whole history, to be understood and have a better life. This I believe we do to potentially give the best to these children. I believe that this is the basic idea. Nor do I believe that general adoption is the antidote to surrogacy. The psychological profiles of those who want at all costs a child to feel him are very different from those of those who are willing to make a choice to give a family to a child with a story to welcome and accept and, in the end, feel father to that child. Many of these themes I propose to the evaluation of all because in these trajectories there is also this. Many of these issues I have felt close to them in so many speeches. Where's the point? The point is in the ability to write the law; it is in the ability to deal with this complexity of issues in the appropriate and not, in passing, adopting a measure like this without giving the meaning accomplished to many aspects. You have to write the law well. I do not believe that the expressions "spouse" and "parts of civil union" are the answer that contains this complexity. We have exercised ourselves with great will and with great honesty in trying to find the right directions, but perhaps this is a job that awaits us in the coming days. This - and I conclude - is what I feel, especially for myself, as a responsibility at this time. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u48	He's enlisted to speak Senator Piccoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u49	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the draft law we are dealing with and the reservations that come from several quarters towards a text which, in my opinion, is intended to be more an ideological flag than an organic discipline on de facto unions in accordance with constitutional principles, lead me to some simple considerations. The family community guaranteed by our Constitution, Article 29, consists only of the legitimate family, as is shown by the contextual reference to marriage based on the free consent of the spouses. The idea of a de facto family, including cohabitation or de facto unions between persons of the same sex, has no relevance here. It is undoubtedly part of the general social formations covered by Article 2, but it does not result in the need for full equality with the legitimate family, especially since they are exorbitant communities by definition from every precise and exhaustive legal framework. Moreover, Article 1 of the draft law in question represents a definite attempt by the unions of fact absolutely tautological. The relationships in question, being deprived of the characteristics of stability and reciprocity of marital rights and duties, cannot imply any claim of equal treatment with respect to the legitimate family. The Constitutional Court itself, although applying the principle of equality, for example in the area of rental of urban buildings, has never received equal treatment tout court in its case law. Palazzo della Consulta, in fact, while considering in line with the Constitution the discipline of forms of relationship of couples other than the legal structure of marriage, has always recognized to the legitimate family a superior dignity. This means, by carefully reading the article of the bill submitted to this Chamber for consideration, that on the one hand it undermines the paradigm of the superior dignity of the legitimate family, providing for rights and duties similar to those arising from marriage (among the many successor rights), on the other it upsets the very nature of a union, which should instead constitute a choice of freedom towards those schemes preconstituted by the legislator for the legitimate family originated from marriage. Particularly unfair is the prediction of the possibility of adopting by the same sex couple, even if passing through the path of stepchild adoption: in this way the growth of a minor within a homosexual couple is made equivalent to that in a heterosexual couple, and the child is deprived by the legislator of the variety of educational figures deriving from the different sex of parents. According to the orientation of the European Courts, adoption will not be limited for a long time to some cases: instead, it will be progressively extended for each homosexual couple, even to the detriment of the biological parent, who could also be relieved of his role for the benefit of the cohabitant of the same sex. In this way the right to the child of the aspiring parent replaces the superior interest of the child, on which the child's right has so far been founded, putting the child in crisis. Nor would it be acceptable, as an alternative to stepchild adoption, the so-called reinforced foster care, i.e. the transformation of the foster care into an adoption with respect to which the course of time can lead to a definitive accommodation in the family of destination. Reliance and adoption respond to different logics and pursue non-overlayable objectives, having so far had both as a reference the interest of the minor, variable depending on the situation of departure: in the foster care it is a momentary difficulty of the original family, in the adoption of the state of abandonment of the minor. St. John Paul II wrote: "The family is the mirror in which God looks and sees the two most beautiful miracles he has done: giving life and giving love." As I said at the outset, Madam President, Articles 29 et seq. of the Constitution recognize and define the family as a natural society founded on marriage, the natural place of the encounter between a man and a woman, to whom is attributed the exclusive responsibility in the education of their children, in order to build the common good of present and future Italian society. To approve this bill is to violate these constitutional principles, in my view. Vote for this bill is to disown the right of the natural family to be the fundamental and unique institution of society towards which it is necessary to direct decisive political support actions. Vote in favour of this bill means denying children the right to have a father and a mother, in fact discriminating against them; children who must not in any way become objects to be disposed of at will. Supporting this bill means depriving maternity, childhood and youth of protection and protection, contrary, in my view, to Article 31 of the Constitution. Sharing this bill means in fact allowing and legalizing the practice of the uterus for rent, endorsing the exploitation of women with an inhuman and very serious practice. Ladies and gentlemen, there are moments in life when you can be called to take choices that will involve, for good or for bad, future generations and their children, chosen from which you will hardly be able to go back: these decisions must be taken in the first person, with regard to every citizen and to their nation, the responsibility for the consequences of their decisions. I believe that this responsibility certainly requires thoughtful and strong actions in the field of individual rights of the person, but that, at the same time, requires that all energy and attention be guaranteed for the founding cell of our society, the family, protecting it from intolerable changes, which could undermine the very existence of our coexistence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lucherini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u50	Madam President, I happened this morning to listen to one of the speeches by my colleagues from the centre-right, in which we were reminded that there is research in America which shows that, if a child lives within a same-sex couple, he then has a much higher deviant index than children living in heterosexual couples. While I was listening to this intervention, I read an article in the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" (but also reported it "The Messenger") that reminded us of what happened in Italy a few days ago, on February 1st: in twenty-four hours, in Catania a woman died at the hands of her husband, strangled in front of her son; in Pozzuoli another woman, pregnant, was set on fire, that is, she was set on fire by her partner, who then fled; the next day another woman was almost beheaded by her husband. This is to say the obvious: we all know that the family can be the best breeding ground for the development of a child, but that, at the same time, it can also be the hell in which a child often finds himself living and growing. We all know that it depends on parents, the level of awareness of their parents and their ability to play this difficult role. We all know it's not written anywhere that two homosexuals can be worse parents than two heterosexuals. Just as the opposite is not true, namely that two homosexuals can be better parents than two heterosexuals. It depends on the parents. So I don't think this sanctification of the family is appropriate at a time when we all know, because we all read the judicial reports, that the family is often a place where the worst evils happen and from which children often have to be forced out in order to be able to develop in a more just and balanced way. We all know, moreover, that today there is a plurality of families. There's not one family left. We know that from statistics and our daily lives; and we all know that a law that takes note of this changed situation in Italy is thirty years late. Personally, I am very concerned for one reason only. I signed the so-called Cyrinna bill because I find it to be a balanced text, which does not put on the same level the marriage between two heterosexuals and the civil unions of two heterosexuals or two homosexuals. The text contains a clear distinction that gives a fair and appropriate response to the constitutional dictation. So the bill in our examination does not go against the Constitution and recognizes rights to those who do not have rights today. In addition, I have signed the Cirinna bill because many parliamentary forces converge on it in this House, which can finally determine the adoption of this legislation. I would remind you that the adoption of the bill will be a success in this House in the next few hours next week. It would be very serious for us too to fail. There is no government in question because the latter has been kept out of it; the initiative is a parliamentary one and probably, as it was for divorce and abortion, they will also vote in favour of this bill by forces that do not support the Government and that is right because on the issue of rights it is right that Parliament should express itself without majority constraints. But the worst risk we run is that we don't approve the law, and we know that we play everything here in the next few days, in the debate we're having, and in the votes we're going to have, even in the secret ones. And it would be an act of great irresponsibility if even in this legislature (after having failed, as you will all remember, on previous occasions, in recent decades and in the past legislatures), we did not approve a law on the rights for homosexual couples and for de facto heterosexual couples. I conclude, Madam President, with a reflection on the possibility of adoption by homosexual couples. I believe that if we come out of the reconstructions that often fascinate us and reason only in terms of rights we cannot but ask ourselves why we should deny to a child who is already born, who exists, who is already among us and who is the son of a homosexual who has a partner (this question, then, particularly concerns homosexual couples of men), to have greater protection, that is, the right to have two parents. In fact, if one of the two parents, the true parent or better what by law is the parent, happens something, the other cannot continue to perform the role of parent and therefore that child no longer has protection, does not have a guarantee that everyone else has. But what do we do wrong and wrong if we pass a law that gives this child the security of having two parents, the security of having more protection? This will not give rise to adoptions, to the uterus for rent, just as divorce was not the end of the family, just as abortion did not stop the birth of children nor became, as was said at the time, a practice that would also lead to the end of the family. We do a work of justice, with a sacred law that we must approve. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SEL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u51	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u52	I remind you, Senator, that the closing time of the sitting is at 8 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u53	Madam President, I shall try to finish in the time allowed. We have heard so many statements, even touching ones, but I must say, in all honesty, that there is no good faith in this debate, because they say they want to pursue one thing but, in fact, they want to pursue another. If we were honest, we would probably only discuss coexistence in this House. It has been said for years that living together must be regulated and that we have no certainty of rights. All the speeches we have heard converge on the fact that what is now a legal recognition could be a recognition linked to precise rules. When a cohabitant dies, for example, the courts today allow the lease of the house to be passed on. Well, it can be expected with the norm that the cohabitant has a number of rights, even perhaps the obligations of maintenance, up to the reversibility, which was perhaps the most difficult point to combine, because it would have had economic implications. This could have been adapted and extended to people of the same sex. Probably, we would have found a proper location for the recognition of rights. But you did something else. Those who have laid down and supported this text say they want civil unions, but as the text is, they write civil unions and they read marriage. Why can't we accept that it's the same that the family is made up of a man and a woman, two women or two men? Because the family, for good and for bad, binds us all as long as there is a Constitution, to those great principles that we should recognize if we recognize ourselves in the Italian Constitution. When the Constitution says that the Republic recognizes the rights of the family as a natural society, it speaks of family, not of unions, of natural society, of the naturalness of union. To better interpret it we have two articles: Article 31 of the Constitution states that the Republic protects motherhood, childhood and youth. And motherhood is linked to the natural family, because motherhood cannot come in any other way. I've heard some good things. There was talk of principles distinct from the rules. But as legislators we must adopt rules that implement these principles, we cannot with rules override, override and reverse the principles, even enshrined in the Constitution. It is not written anywhere that there is a right to have children. As I said, we must, for the sacred principles of the Italian Republic, protect minors, children. These are our obligations. Don't upset constitutional principles with rules. What happens if we recognize civil unions equal to marriage? We should, as a logical consequence, allow adoptions, because two people of the same sex cannot daughter. We have, in silence, listened to statements that are not acceptable. Here there is a component of modernism that sees society changing and advancing and as others do, we must also chase it. Others, on the other hand, are linked to traditions and backwardness, negative. Some say times change. Well, I say: fortunately, values remain, even though times change! If this evil bill passes, if two men decide to have a child, what should they do? They should, alas, resort to a woman (gestating first, giving birth later), who then disposes of this son to give him lovingly to this homosexual couple. But why would he do that? The only reason is because it would be paid. But if, as a conception not so much Christian, but moralistic, we abhor prostitution or people who sell their bodies, if we morally condemn prostitution, that is, a woman who sells her body for a few minutes or for a few hours, how can we, by law at this point, write that it is normal the atypical prostitution of a woman who uses her body for payment for even nine months? How can we think this is a natural thing? I always return to wise King Solomon. If a woman who gave birth to a child and then gave it to the new couple, a couple in whom he lived and grew up, wanted that child back, what should we foresee by law? That once given up, this act of love, of concession, becomes irreversible? Who should then decide who to attribute, to whom to give, to whom to recognize this child? I realize that we are opening a door, the door of modernism, which we do not know where it will take us. I do not want to offend the left, but there has always been a very different conception between traditionalists and reformists: the left has never seen with sympathy the family. [[Comments of Senator Cardinals]] On the other hand, if you want to regulate with a collectivist-communist system all men, you must treat them in the same way and you cannot accept differences, that stamp that the mother gives to each of us, that is different from all others. All men are equal and governed by the supreme order of the State: this is the end of communism. Those over fifty remember what the municipalities were, that is, the resumption of that movement that came from the United States, who were the children of the flowers. In the municipality everyone lived together; everyone contributed as he was capable and in the municipality the children were born. The mother is always certain, so it was known, while it was not important to know who the father was: the son was of the municipality, who took charge of this son, for which they were all sons of the State: perfect communism. Luckily, I say, that company project is over. But, honestly, it seems to us that today we try to give back another sidekick to the family. Who does not have a word in this context, in this debate? The only subject: children. Children have no right to a stand, but do children have no rights? The first right of a child should be to be able to live in the best context for its growth and training and have two reference figures, a father and a mother, certainly serves as a better context for the psychic growth of each child. There has been a great deal of talk, because surely we would find execrabile examples of traditional families: irresponsible fathers, probably so many evil mothers, but we cannot... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Divine Senator, I invite you to conclude. If you think so, you may deposit your statement. DIVINE (LN-Aut). I shall conclude, Madam President. Such pathological forms of family cannot make us say that the natural family is not the best environment for raising children. We know that there are so many children in orphanages that are probably not the best places to live. How many couples, married and not, have encountered a thousand and more obstacles in the process of adopting a child, starting from the requirement of forty years of age difference between the adopter and the adopted one? Let us think of the women who have sought maternity until the end, over forty-five or fifty years, who can no longer have a child to adopt. Why haven't you thought about these cases if you say you want the children's good too? Why didn't you think to lighten the load of bureaucracy to get the children out of the orphanages and offer them to families? But we have understood that this is not the objective that those who are seeking this measure want to pursue. We understand that very well. For these reasons, we cannot vote in favour of the draft law under consideration which, as written, disrupts the first cell of our society, that is, the natural family founded on marriage. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u54	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u57	AMORUSO (AL-A). Madam President, I am speaking briefly following the debate that has recently developed in the city of Bisceglie, where the mayor has put among the topics under discussion the administration of the institution Casa della Divina Providence. Already in November 2015 I put a question on this issue, the 4-04812, to the Ministries of Economic Development and Labour and Social Policy, to ask for clarity on the administration of the Commission, with a number of specific questions. I now ask the Presidency to urge the Ministry to respond immediately because, never before, citizens need clarity. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency will take charge of the request.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u58	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-571.ana.u59	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 4 February, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.01 p.m.
