ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u3	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time), pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, on measures to encourage investment in support of innovation and competitiveness of the Italian industrial system and developments in international negotiations on trade and attraction for foreign investment, to which the Minister for Economic Development, Dr Calenda, will respond. It should be noted that RAI's live television is underway. Let us now turn to questions about measures to encourage investment in support of innovation and the competitiveness of the Italian industrial system. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u6	MUCCHETTI (PD). Minister, the Industry 4.0 programme, which the Government presented yesterday, aims to relocate Italy to the new frontier of technology and to recover a gap that is worrying today; and let us consider this a great good news. Personally I do not feel particular passions for the philosophical distinction between horizontal and vertical logics, which even today is exalted by "Il Sole 24 Ore" (Il Sole 24 Ore). In fact, industrial policy has always followed them both since the 1970s, when public finances were made, Law No. 675 of 1977 and at the same time the revaluation of the assets with the Visentini and Pandolfi laws, or in the 1990s and in the new millennium, with the CIP6 and incentives for renewable sources, which were the largest subsidy operation ever carried out in Italy just as it was said that industrial policy had to be banned. I would therefore stay away from these and instead come to the project to make an observation and ask you two questions. The observation is that we are facing a financial commitment of 13 billion over seven years. If budgetary policy were more forward-looking, we could probably have more. The questions are as follows. Given that the combined technologies from the Industry 4.0 plan are already available today, their effect will be in the immediate future a reduction in operating costs, among which the cost of labour stands out. What, then, will be the immediate effects (in the next two or three years) on employment levels within the restructuring companies and in the services that will flourish around them, before the positive effects of the plan appear in the medium term? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish it, Senator. MUCCHETTI (PD). I shall conclude, Mr President. Secondly, I did not understand from the slides and chronicles whether hyper amortization increases the company's depreciable base and the real rates remain constant, or whether, on the other hand, hyper amortization increases the real rate and, therefore, reduces the depreciation period as was the case with early depreciation. In one case or another, what will be the effect on the return and remuneration of the capital?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u9	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, just yesterday you presented Industry 4.0, a government plan for an industrial system that innovates its production processes and has access to the international market. We are at least four years behind Germany, where automated and interconnected industrial production is already a reality. But at the same time we are waiting for the measures that she has announced as part of the article of the new budget law. Let me just remind you that the Italian industrial system, however, has its own typicality: small-scale industries, family management, high-quality products, often made entirely by hand, appealing abroad, where it is difficult to arrive alone. It is therefore certainly necessary to favour start-ups, where investors have a medium-term horizon; to facilitate innovative companies, but also to pamper companies that simply produce traditional products, which are very popular on international markets. In fact, on this type of company they weigh the cost of labor, that of the overtime to be paid to their employees when they increase the orders, but also that of keeping the level of employment and wages intact in the moments of crisis. I ask you, then, in addition to the announced reduction of IRES, what are the measures for companies that do not make any useful, because they have not yet come out of the crisis, and for companies where man's work is still a predominant element. Moreover, do you not think that it is appropriate to provide forms of tax incentive for the share ownership to inject new capital into companies, having a long-term horizon (at least ten years) for both listed and unlisted companies?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u12	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr Minister, when we talk about patent boxes, we think of tax concessions to support primarily the research and development of small and medium-sized enterprises and their capacity for innovation, thus rewarding the talent for inventions and hence patents. But, reading some data released by the Revenue Agency, it seems that the plan envisaged by the Government has so far been largely disregarded. The measure, in fact, has favoured more large companies and multinationals, creating yet another economic imbalance in the research and development market. The Italian patent box, in fact, is less restrictive than the OECD, which recognizes patents only as the subject of tax advantages. On the other hand, we also include trademarks, copyrighted software, designs, models and know-how. The revenue agency's figures speak for themselves: of the 4,498 applications submitted in 2015, more than 55% refers to companies with a turnover ranging from 10 million to more than 300 million euros (all other than small and medium-sized enterprises, therefore), and only 18% of them relate to the presentation of patents. But that's not all. According to forecasts, the measure is likely to turn into a boomerang for public finance. Of the 620 million euros planned for the next three years, the almost 4,500 applications mentioned above will absorb about 590 in 2015, i.e. a tax discount three times compared to the total budget. Finally, considering that even according to a research by the European Commission's Taxation and Customs Union, in most cases our patent hybrid box produces tax incentives for multinationals without a correspondence of increase of inventors or research activity, I would ask you to know what measures the Government intends to take to restore a logic of balance for the support of research and for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, with a view to bringing the production of patents back to the centre of the issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u15	Mr Barani (AL-A). Minister, the growing detachment of Italy from almost all the remaining European and Western countries shows that something is not going deep in the Italian economy. Discussing measures in favour of investment and in support of innovation and competitiveness of the Italian industrial system is important, but only if this debate takes place within the framework of a coherent economic policy, which has as essential co-ordinates the overall development. In an international context that shows profound signs of crisis and involution how does the Government intend to address these nodes and demonstrate a consistency that is not currently seen? Where do these difficulties come from? Are they born above all from the changed international context and the delay with which we are grasping the impact of these transformations? To sum up, Minister, the 2008 crisis with the failure of the Lehman Brothers seems increasingly to mark a hairpin, a sudden turning point in the profound logic that regulates the processes of globalization today in clear difficulty. Will it be a temporary phenomenon? We hope so. But the various turbulences, not only economic, but also political, characterized by a resurgent nationalism, which borders on autarchy, are causing the forecast barometer to fall. And so it is necessary for Italy to gear itself up and reflect on the risks associated with this new phase and to give itself the indispensable tools for a different economic policy, within which to relocate the topics we must discuss today. But until there is this general rethink, we risk only a idle discussion, which is not able to attack the deepest reasons of the Italian crisis.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u18	PERRONE (CoR). Mr President, yesterday Industry 4.0 was presented, the plan to relaunch our industrial system with a series of measures to promote investment and innovation. Tax incentives, strengthening financial instruments and collaborations with universities are examples of measures that are certainly appropriate and worthy of appreciation. We welcome the fact that the Minister has repeatedly stressed the need to intervene in this area. However, it is essential to remember to act with significant increases in public and private investment. We say this by thinking that the country is still behind on many aspects that cannot be deprived of such strategies. In any case, we think that the plan presented yesterday is more of a beautiful book of desires. There are too many references to development models that are far away and inapplicable. Too much weight relies on the concept of flexibility. It is clear - and we all know this - that we need to develop innovation and do it with a view to the future. That plan, however, does not seem to take account of the country's structural characteristics. I am referring in particular to the organizational structure of companies and the Italian socio-economic system. I am thinking of the services sector and the limits still caused by the lack of market opening. I am thinking of the chaos of laws and regulations that still costs the company. I think about the slow times of bureaucracy. And above all, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the sum of all these genuine wounds is what still makes the great foreign companies escape from the beautiful country. Who knows how many opportunities and jobs we would have if we were to overcome these obstacles once and for all. But we need a political will that I do not find here. The present plan, therefore, even if it starts from good intentions, does not go to cure the real causes of the problems and probably separates the North even further from the South. In conclusion, Mr President, there are a number of shadow areas on our side and many questions which call for urgent answers, starting with resources, until the way in which they are implemented is chosen. What are the measures that affect labour costs and tax reductions? Why do we not really insist on the release of high speed even in the Mezzogiorno? Mr. Minister, these may be traditional interventions, but they can certainly give the country an immediate and concrete boost. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Calenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the arguments are obviously very interlinked, and that is why I would like to respond together and then go into detail. The international situation is very difficult. The Government believes that next year it will continue to be complex, in particular on the side of the uncertainty deriving from several causes not always connected that they put together (price of the raw materials, devaluations, geopolitical instability). In this context, it is a priority for the Government to work on stimulating private and public investment. Of course, not everything is good for public investment and not everything is good for private investment. The plan that we presented yesterday works on stimulating private investment in particular. We are faced with an extremely insidious revolution for two reasons. The first reason - as it was for internationalization - is that they create winners and losers in a very polarized way, and they create many advantages; I think - for example - to globalization. Last year we recorded a record in export, but at the same time many companies lost this challenge. Innovation is the same thing. That's why the government's plan works as an accelerator to connect the Italian business system to the strand of innovation. I come to specific things. I am not keen on the debate between horizontal and non-horizontal either, but the issue raised by many of you is about the access of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is quite clear that automatic tax incentives work much better for a small and medium-sized enterprise than an incentive - for example - ban, which becomes complex and has very long crossing times. The 13 billion is not for seven years, because over the entire part of hyper amortization and super amortization cover the investments made in 2017. This means that, even from the point of view of purely using public resources, there is an anticipation of the effects and a disbursement over time. And I think this is a measure of effectiveness. For hypermortization, the time is five years to 250 percent with a cataloguing of the goods on which we are working with the world of industry and with the Ministry of Economy and Finance to try to identify them and keep them very close. It doesn't have to be for everyone. It's the advanced piece. Hypermortization will remain for all those who produce non-traditional goods. Industry 4.0 does not touch what you produce, but how you do it. Senator Cows, the effects on work are the big theme, and we recognize two aspects. The first is all talking about and it is the risk that the advance of technology will lack jobs. The other element is the increase in productivity, which means that the variable of the cost of labor - it is one of the variables that has pushed to the relocation - becomes less influential. These are two things that could balance. With Minister Poletti yesterday we decided during the directing booth that the next appointment will be dedicated to try to estimate the priceless, a very strong debate all over the world. We'll figure out how we can keep the two worlds together. The plan we have presented, however, looks not only at innovative investment, but also at investment in all sectors and in all ways. Let me give you an example: the Guarantee Fund today is a very important element for small and medium-sized enterprises; it covers about EUR 15 billion in funding; we will strengthen it next year and bring it to EUR 900 million. This means that we can cover some EUR 22 billion in funding, plus we have restructured it, because it now covers 80% for everyone. And that is not fair, because companies that have a very high rating do not need 80%. They're giving money to the banks. So, we said to cover companies with a slightly lower rating, to cover less working and to focus on investments that have a recovery plan in place. This applies to companies that produce and do not produce profits, which invest in traditional products and innovative products. In the same way, we are working - and this is an issue that goes through the various interventions - on a further strengthening of the incentive to the productivity wage. The piece of wages linked to productivity is what, more and more, with this type of industry advancing can bring benefits to the worker and the company. Productivity is the central theme. In the end, productivity and competitiveness are long-term growth. Very often domestic demand is a flame that goes out quickly and does not constitute the premise for having years of growth. Among the other instruments we are using is a strong reform of development contracts. I remember 80% going south. We put a billion euros on it. Up to 3 to 3.5 billion euros of investments can be financed, but in this case too we start from the company's demand, and not from an abstract address given by a Ministry. I believe that this is a key to industrial policy. It is a key to industrial policy, not a comprehensive one, and I agree with that. That is why we are working on an energy measure, which is essential to restore dignity to heavy industry - let us call it that - which is very important and has been penalised for many years. Senator Cucchetti referred to measures that had been taken and that the European Union - for example - has invalidated. We have recently had a Comfort Letter from the Commission approving the new scheme on energy products, which we will be promulgating as soon as possible. Finally, there is the question of the patent box. It is in a sense the matter of a glass half empty and half full. First, at the moment the patent box does not have a ceiling. 44% of applications come from companies with less than EUR 10 million and I think this is a very important result. We must not think about the elements of growth in the sense that one is to be preferred over another; they are together. If we attract high-level investment in multinational research and innovation, it is not a negative, but a positive fact, as small business ecosystems live around it. If medium-sized companies, i.e. around 10 million euros, start working more on the frontier of innovation - and this is also the Industry 4.0 plan - it is also a good thing for the much smaller ones, which often become bigger by suppliers. I believe that we must therefore think about an audience of companies and an audience of instruments, each of which has its own target. The Industry 4.0 plan is made for small and medium-sized enterprises because it has that automation that they need, even in the tax credit for research and innovation, which we have greatly enhanced. Finally, Senator Pelino, the last question is that of the funds for the growth of start-ups. In the Industry 4.0 plan there are a number of very precise measures. I quote one, which I think is very important: I am referring to the fact that the company that sponsors and invests in a start-up can take the losses of the start-up and carry them on. What is happening in the world today is that research and innovation are often done not only internally, but also through the participation of start-ups. However, it is very important that we encourage the company to do this, accepting the fact that start-ups, as such, initially lose. In the United States - for example - the whole frontier of biomedical is done in this way. Can this plan respond to all the needs that the country has in terms of growth? Of course not. It's not built for this. It's not built to be all-inclusive. It is built to work on the factors of competitiveness of the enterprise. Then, of course, we need high speed, public investment, and we are doing some very qualifying - I think of broadband - but this is the piece that ensures us lasting growth. The point is to be able to bring companies with easy, concentrated tools and sufficient magnitude within this revolution. We are also great manufacturers of machine tools: we export more machine tools and automation than all the other major sectors of Made in Italy put together. That is why this revolution is a risk, but also an extraordinary opportunity. If we succeed in linking this maneuver to the strand of innovation and competitiveness of the Italian entrepreneurial system, that piece will be done. As a final point of philosophy, we have given tools to companies. It is up to businesses now to use them. They are not tools for which they have to ask anyone for a stamp: they have to make, invest. That's what they have to do. Of course, all this presupposes a confidence in the Italian business world and on the part of the Government there is. Of course, this presupposes the fact that the Italian publishing world has the incentive to innovate, but I do not believe that there is a different path from what we are taking, knowing that the coming years remain of great uncertainty and, as such, must be crossed. But there is no strategy other than this; on the contrary, the more uncertainty there is, the greater the stimulus to investment, which is the only true response to the uncertainty that we must give.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u20	They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u23	MUCCHETTI (PD). Minister, I would like to thank you for your reply, which I take note of, and I would like to make a further examination of the subject, even at your hearing in the Chamber and Senate Committees.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u26	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, we appreciate the willingness to adopt the accompanying policies to the industry you announced. And, therefore, it is right to move our industrial system forward towards technological and digital innovation. The productivity premium will have to be checked whether the announced resources will be there. It seems to us, however, really minimal the intervention in support of Made in Italy, among other things at a time when it suffers all kinds of attacks by products made abroad and sold for Italians. It seems to us that your Government still lacks a broad vision of the capital market, and there is also no serious plan for the credit system to the real economy. I therefore hope that you will welcome the important comments of the Forza Italia Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u29	GIROTTO (M5S). Minister, thank you for your reply, but we are not satisfied. It is not a matter of half-full or half-empty with reference to that 44 percent you mentioned. It was enough simply to admit that, as the rest of the OECD countries do, brands and other objects that do not really do research and innovation should not be included. It's the patent that does research, innovation and development, and not brands, which is a whole other thing: it's just marketing. However, I repeat the conclusion - not mine or the 5 Star Movement, but the European Commission - that this type of regime, the Italian patent box, has simply moved the headquarters of the multinationals which, in order to take advantage of the tax discount, are registered in Italy. So that 44 percent you were referring to is not, however, the result of local activities, but it refers to the multinationals that come to us and deposit here, because it is cheaper for them from a fiscal point of view. And I repeat that I do not say that, but the European Commission says so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u32	Mr Barani (AL-A). Minister, it is you who spoke of philosophies, therefore, you authorized me to give an example: that of the father of the family who gathered around the table all his children and explained the philosophy, culture and politics, and the smallest, at the last, sharing the intervention of the father, asked him: What are we going to eat this evening? Minister, we can understand your difficulties: the Dicastery cannot stand by and wait for the Council of Ministers to come up with the necessary answers to the issues it has raised. Therefore, we can understand a certain embarrassment, but the awareness of the difficulties that await us should explain and promote the necessary initiatives and, therefore, create the conditions for investment in support of innovation and the competitiveness of the Italian industrial system to be truly realized. The government urges the industrialists, but the industrialists do not trust this Government and the system that is surrounding them, including the judicial problems that affect all Italian investors, who are really afraid.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u35	PERRONE (CoR). Minister, the entire Italian business class is asking for certainty on this level, and unfortunately we still cannot say that we have achieved it. I hope that the unclear points can be remedied and that innovation - for the good of all - is not just a good word to make the programmes on the government's agenda interesting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u36	Let us now turn to questions on the development of international negotiations on trade and the attraction of foreign investment, which will be answered by the Minister for Economic Development, Dr Calenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u39	Mr Albano (PD). Minister, the Italian Government has repeatedly expressed its support for the conclusion of negotiations on the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Treaty, which provides for the creation of a single free trade area between the European Union and the United States. The economic impact assessments of TTIP - with particular reference to those produced by the European Commission - show that the Treaty can be an important driver of growth for the European and Italian economies. However, concerns have emerged from several quarters about the potential negative impacts on certain sectors as well as on workers' rights and the right of States to regulate. The Italian Government has repeatedly reiterated that the Treaty in question can, on the contrary, be an opportunity to ensure adequate protection for Italian products on international markets and to prevent forms of unfair competition. I would like to ask the Minister how the Treaty can promote the Italian economy, with particular reference to small and medium-sized enterprises, and what the state of the art of negotiation is.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u42	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr. Minister, the attraction of foreign investment in Italy concerns, as a priority, Italian companies which, as a rule, have an international target for their products. Foreign investment in Italy in recent years has been mainly focused on participation in large companies or large banks at balance prices. Several transactions were, in fact, carried on taking advantage of the economic crisis and the consequent collapse of the stock values. The good thing is that they are, in some cases, long-term investors; the bad thing is that they have still burned down Italian capital. So no wealth has been added. Unfortunately, what should be emphasized is the presence of a negative balance between Italian investments abroad and foreign investments in Italy; as is however negative that of portfolio investments. More and more Italian capitals go abroad than foreign capitals are invested in Italy. Add to this the money and the know-how of Italian companies that relocate their productions by taking them abroad. The result is therefore a gross domestic product that grows less than expectations. I ask you, Minister, before attracting investment from abroad, do you not think it would be wiser to stop Italian capital, entrepreneurs and companies going abroad? In this sense, the solitary action of his ministry is not enough, but it serves that framework of rules that has always been evoked: less bureaucracy, more credit, faster justice, less taxes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u45	CASTALDI (M5S). Minister, negotiations on treaties such as CETA or TTIP have taken place in absolute secrecy; there has been no real control by democratically elected representatives or a confrontation with civil society. I remind everyone that these treaties concern the commercial and productive structure and are treated in which Italy, according to many, has everything to lose. In fact, CETA could enter into force with a trick, that of provisional application, i.e. without national and European Parliaments being able to ratify or reject it. I am therefore, Minister, asking whether the Italian Government wishes to encourage the approval in the various national parliaments of a treaty such as CETA or supports this trick of provisional application. On TTIP, on the other hand, since France and Germany and other European countries representing more than 56% of the European population are moving towards a halt to negotiations, I ask why Italy wants to force its hand - at least apparently - on a table from which, I repeat, many tell us that it has everything to lose.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u48	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Minister, interviewed by the Corriere della Sera on 29 August with regard to the state of negotiations on TTIP, you replied, without hesitation, that the negotiations would continue and reaffirm the Government's position in favour of reaching the agreement, saying that I quote - this is the way to resume the helm of globalisation. Our Parliament and those of other Member States have already, on several occasions, expressed formal protests about the lack of transparency with which the negotiations have been conducted and the lack of timely circulation of documents, starting from the most controversial aspects discussed at the different negotiating tables. I mention just a few: from European rules on GMOs, labelling and pesticides, to standards in the energy sectors, to chemistry. I am thinking of the absence in the United States of the precautionary principle whereby, for example, chemicals are considered safe until proven otherwise; I am thinking of the general reduction of social and environmental standards. In view of the explicit request for suspension made by the French Government and the equally explicit admission of failure by the German Minister for the Economy, it seems essential that Parliament and the public should now receive clear information on the official position of the Italian Government at the negotiating table on the actual state of the negotiations. You are certainly aware that there are sectors of the national economy that would be heavily invested by the consequences of an agreement on TTIP. I am referring in particular to the agri-food sector and not just that. I would also like to ask you whether, to date, the employment impact that any agreement would have on our country's economy has been adequately assessed. I refer, in particular, to the document published by the European Parliament's Directorate-General for Internal Policies four months ago, according to which our country, together with Germany, would be the most affected by the consequences of TTIP, with an estimated 300,000 jobs at risk. Similarly, I would like to ask you about the trade liberalisation agreement with Canada, which also has measures with a strong negative impact on the national economy.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u51	Mr Barani (AL-A). Minister, the slowing down - to put it mildly - of the international trade negotiations between the two sides of the Atlantic is nothing more than a consequence of the new phase that is characterising the process of globalisation, the slowing down of which cannot but worry, as a plan B is not yet available to cope with the narrowest impulses of international trade. On the other hand, there is a very different case of policies aimed at attracting foreign investment, where some diseases are causing alarm in public opinion, not only in Italy. I am referring in particular to the case of Apple and its tax privileges in Ireland, which forced the European Commission to intervene hard. I remember that there had been the Volkswagen case and the billionaire fine decreed by the United States before. There is one less well-known case to which I would like to draw your attention, Minister. This is an even more ethically scandalous case, because it concerns the lives of two million patients, those affected in Italy by hepatitis C. Hepatitis C is a disease that can be eradicated by the use of a drug, Sovaldi, produced by an American company, Gilead Sciences, which, for agreements made with the Italian Drug Agency (AIFA), is sold in Italy at exorbitant prices. The complete cycle costs us 40,000 euros, an untenable figure for both the individual and the National Health System. The thing that makes you argue is that the same drug has a cost of 800 euros in Egypt and India. As you can see, the gap is impressive as the proportion is 5,000 percent. This is despite the fact that the Minister of Health stated that, in 2016, all patients with hepatitis C should have been treated for free. Mr Minister, I would like to point out to you the case, not so much because of the health aspects, which we will discuss elsewhere, but because of the more properly economic and financial aspects. Not only Volkswagen and Apple are on the stand. It is clear that until we try to have a common front with regard to the policies pursued by multinationals, with certain and uniform rules in attracting investment, the most selfish countries will have the upper hand.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u54	LIUZZI (CoR). Minister, according to the most recent evaluations, which are also recurrent in this debate, our country, on a scale of attraction for a foreign investor, ranging from a minimum score of one to a maximum of ten, is in eighth place, with a really ridiculous score compared to that of the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, China and France. In short, in comparison with other more industrialized countries, we are still below the threshold of sufficiency. Without investment our economy is languishing. But what really discourages international investors? Almost to suggest an answer to this question, the Government encourages the rapid approval of the two economic and trade agreements between the European Union and Canada (CETA) and that between the European Union and the United States (TTIP). The negotiation phase has been completed by CETA and if it is approved by the end of 2016 by the Council and the European Parliament, it could enter into force in 2017. You, Minister, even wish to be ratified directly by the European Parliament without the prior approval of the individual parliaments of the Member States. Regardless of whether this is legally correct (but it seems to us that it is not), in the meantime citizens from all over Europe are meeting to protest against the approval of these treaties from the many dark sides, including the fear that they would like to favour, willingly or unwillingly, both with CETA and TTIP, the interests of multinationals at the expense of those of citizens. It is also widely held that much more could be achieved from the negotiations that have now been concluded for CETA, especially in terms of greater guarantees for the health of European consumers. It is no coincidence that countries such as Germany and Austria will not give green light to CETA without first being approved by the National Parliament. But beyond this type of revolutionary international agreements, the inadequacy of our country in terms of attractiveness for new investments comes from afar and concerns the operation of the public machine. It is public administration and its inefficiencies that are more concerned with investors. We therefore ask you, Minister, what measures the Government is preparing to increase the precise knowledge of the contents of the two Treaties by citizens and in particular by Italian companies in order to guarantee the protection of our brands and our typical and excellent productions and, at the same time, what measures are being taken to increase Italy's appetite for foreign investors. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Mr Calenda, Minister for Economic Development, has the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u55	Mr President, Italy is an export-oriented manufacturing country, but despite last year's record, the ratio of our exports to GDP is 30% compared to almost 50% in Germany. So there is a gap to recover that has a lot to do with the need of small and medium-sized enterprises to be more competitive on international markets. This problem also arises from the existence of an imbalance. In fact, today Europe is the most open area in the world in terms of tariffs, while many other countries, including the United States, are much less so. Therefore, it is not the solution for Europe to stand still. I add this: the United States today is one of our most important markets, the third in absolute, with a very significant growth: we export 36 billion goods but above all we make 22 billion euros of positive balance. I would add that at this time, in a very complicated international scenario, North America - the United States and Canada - remains a very important anchor for our products that elsewhere suffer competitive devaluations and unstable geopolitical situations. Now, of this export to North America, Italian small and medium-sized enterprises make almost 48 percent. That is not negligible. TTIP is important because not only do the United States have tariff barriers on our specialization sectors, which are first industrialization sectors on which the United States is traditionally very protectionist, I am thinking of all textiles, jewelry and ceramics, but they also have very heavy non-tariff barriers, and I am thinking of the evidence of flammability imposed on cotton or fumigation due to the risk of gastropods on tiles. All things that make it very difficult to export to Italian companies. Beyond the punctual duties ranging from 20.08 percent of footwear to 19 percent of wool, 12.5% of tomatoes and 10 percent of ceramics, this is the most dangerous part for Italian companies. I would also add that charges from different standards weigh between 30 and 40% on costs, especially for a small business because a large company has more ease, of course, to have double standards. At this point we arrive at the central theme of TTIP which are the standards. Now, there is very incorrect information on this, and since we are rightly complaining that more transparency is needed on the Treaty, I would like to say that, as Chairman of the Trade Council, I have for the first time in the history of the trade treaties desecrated the negotiating mandate on TTIP. In this mandate, which is compulsory and given unanimously, it is made clear that it does not change the precautionary principle, that is, the precautionary principle, which is the legal basis on which we keep most GMOs out, cannot be negotiated. Not only that: after the beginning of the negotiations we have also issued a regulation that also allows the national states to regulate. Public services are not in any form of negotiation within the European Union, i.e. they are not in the European Union's willingness to negotiate, and so is not culture, because of the obvious importance of it, and even less so are labour rights; indeed, the demand we are pursuing is directed at the Americans, so that they recognize the conventions of the International Labour Organisation. So let us talk about this Treaty (and it is not said that we want to conclude it: we will conclude it only if the conditions are positive for Italy), but let us do it in correct terms and not in terms that have nothing to do with the ongoing negotiations. It is true that this negotiation did not have sufficient transparency, but it is also true that no negotiations before it had such a degree of transparency. No negotiations have allowed us to see texts that have not yet been settled, which are merely negotiating proposals: we have opened a room at the Ministry, very little attended - if I may say so - to consult them. We recognise, therefore, that TTIP has a difficult life, but it is a fundamental tool. The impact analysis commissioned by the Italian Government at the beginning of the negotiations shows that in the case of a very large TTIP we could grow by more than 0.5% per year as a result of TTIP alone. It is an opportunity to balance globalisation, to have the opportunity to tell the so-called BRICS countries that a free trade area is being formed that has global standards and if you want to participate you have to adopt them, balancing a situation that - this yes - is not balanced. How the negotiations are going to go is very difficult to say. I personally consider that there is very little chance that the Obama Administration will close, but that does not mean that the Commission will withdraw its mandate. It is another speech: it means to see if there is political opportunity. Of course, without a recognition of geographical indications, without a limitation of Italian soiling, without a switch to procurement, the Treaty cannot be closed. To argue that TTIP is important is quite different from saying that it must be closed at all costs. There is still one point. It is true that we are talking about transparency and the mandate, but the process of negotiation of approval involves unanimity in the Council, the majority of the European Parliament and ratification by 38 national parliaments (we need to see what Britain will do, but for now by 38 national parliaments) because they are more than one in many countries. This leads me to talk about CETA, which is an agreement of a completely different nature. We have the text of CETA and we know what it contains: while there is a recognition, for the first time in an Anglo-Saxon country, of geographical indications. Parma ham entered Canada as an original ham, now it can enter as a Parma ham and this applies to many other categories. We also have access to the procurement that the United States doesn't give us, but in that case we do. In the judgements of all European actors, CETA has become a positive model of agreement. As far as the position of the Italian Government is concerned, we believe that the perimeter of the European Union is the responsibility of the European Union, because trade policy is its responsibility and the reason is that if we compare ourselves as the European Union we are worth X, if we compare ourselves as individual countries we are worth less than X. The Italian Government considered - and has taken this position forward - that the approval could be the one envisaged for the so-called EU Treaties only, that is, the competence of the European Union. This is not an anti-democratic procedure, because it involves the involvement of the Council and the European Parliament, which is a democratic body. The Commission, under the pressure of the Member States, has decided to bring it as a mixed agreement, which is therefore subject to national ratification, into that process which we described earlier: this is a dangerous process, because the results are not known. At the moment it is still legally unclear what happens if a single country does not ratify the agreement. The provisional application applies to the entire component of the Treaty which is certainly EU only and has been made in all other agreements. The important thing in this case is how we can negotiate, that we have this disadvantage situation (which we have created), that is very low barriers in countries where we are interested in entering (in fact we are all economies that live a lot on export), if we do not negotiate with a critical mass and especially if our counterparts know that when we negotiate then the Vallone Parliament could fail the agreement for everyone. That's a question we have to ask ourselves. The Italian Government has taken a very pro-European position on this and we cannot be pro-European every other day, that is to say in theory and then not in practice. The theme of attracting investment in your questions takes on very different contours. We do not want to bring in the multinationals, but we want to attract more investment: of the two. Italy can attract so-called greenfield investments (new factories), but to a lesser extent the purchase of companies in Italy by multinationals. And when multinational companies buy companies in Italy (I was in Milan yesterday to see the new headquarter of a fashion company I won't say about) and make them tenfold is a positive or negative thing? I think it's a good thing. In the same way, should we distinguish the reasons why companies go abroad, Senator Pelino; do they only do so to relocate, to reduce production costs? Many, however, go abroad to guard the markets and it is inevitable that they do so. I am surprised that your request to restrict the movement of capital comes from you (among other things, it is contrary to any European standard and difficult to operate). So we have to choose our line. The government's line is that what matters is not the property, but the place where the company is, where it gives work, where it does research and innovation; sometimes these elements are also relevant, but the main one is to know where the company is, and on this we move. In order to attract investment there are no policies other than those we have talked about, those of context, of total productivity of factors, of cost of energy, of reform of justice; there is no strategy that can accelerate this process. We are a relatively unattractive country, because over the years we have neglected to be an easy country for industries. Changing this path is the commitment of the Government; this is the way in which investments are attracted, keeping in us the awareness that they want to pay the price, that is not to close us in an autarchic system, both in projection, towards the outside, and in welcoming the investments. This would mean, for what Italy is today in terms of export, but also of potential attraction and need for investment and budget constraints, a decline in the country.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u56	They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u59	Mr Albano (PD). Minister, I am satisfied, but I hope that in the course of the negotiations we will also take into account the need to protect the Italian agri-food heritage, both in exports outside the European Union and on the domestic side, guaranteeing consumers the origin and quality of products marketed in Italy. Even in my capacity as a member of the Agriculture Commission and rapporteur in the Commission itself on the deal allocated No 440 on the EU's trade strategy, I believe that Made in Italy must be supported and protected in all areas, in particular the food sector, which is already developing satisfactorily.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u62	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr Minister, unfortunately the figure of the last three years (which coincide with those of the Renzi Government) shows an increase of about 150 billion euros of Italian investments abroad and a decrease of 28 billion of foreign investments in Italy. We therefore reiterate that it is not only a problem of industrial policy but also of economic policy and of being able to govern monetary policy at home which, as you know, is decided at European level. We expect from this Government a much stronger and more incisive action on the whole industrial sector, so as to bring our country back among the largest international competitors.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u65	CASTALDI (M5S). Minister, I am not at all satisfied with the answer because the CETA agreement aims to allow companies and the Canadian Government to influence legislation which could hinder Canadian exports to Europe. This could be translated into a conditioning of the laws of the European Union by foreign companies and governments even before elected European representatives become aware of it. I assure you that you can stop both CETA and TTIP and it is already proven. In Germany they have already begun to talk about the death of TTIP, while the French President is even calling for a formal end to the negotiations. Of course, in the logic of hypocrisy, at the same time they speed up further on the agreement with Canada so that everyone, the business lobby behind them, can get through CETA almost everything they expected from TTIP. We demand that a clear and decisive position be taken on critical points, without singing meaningless hymns about the benefits of trade. And since I still have a few seconds left, I'm sorry that you didn't, for example, touch the reversal of the burden of proof. It will be up to the customer to demonstrate the possible harmfulness of a product against a large multinational, perhaps. I wonder how this ends.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u68	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I certainly cannot be satisfied. You, Minister, have come here to magnify the positive effects of TTIP, moreover - I wonder - without mentioning the issues I had put to you on the data and therefore on an assessment also with regard to the employment impact. I mentioned, among other things, a precise document from the European Parliament. You know perfectly well that the logic of the free market presides over the whole negotiation. The painful points on which perhaps a further deepening would be good are what will happen both with regard to the Council for Regulatory Cooperation, which is the body that still today in the Treaties is called upon to set the transatlantic standards of free trade, thus overcoming the parliaments, and with regard to the international arbitration body, consisting of referees chosen by extrajudicial methods, who will be called to decide on disputes between private investors and the acceding countries. In other words, multinationals could accuse states of obstructing the free market. These are the points, because in words the benefits can be decanted and also the hypothetical increase of 0.5 of GDP, but on the data instead you have to be precise, as well as on these legal elements that are very dark and will be very disadvantageous for our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u71	Mr Barani (AL-A). Minister, of course, I have been embarrassed by your speech. You will realize that our Group wants to make 60 billion available to you for economic development. Where to get them? From this secret agreement between AIFA and the American multinational that has set the price to 38,000 euros. The same pharmaceutical company with Egypt, with the Ministry of Health, sets it at 800 euros. You save 60 billion. I understand your embarrassment, but the drug is the same. He's still healing. Mr Minister, we cannot have a state that looks fierce against pharmacists or taxi drivers in the proper defense of the principles of competition and liberalisation and then turns to the other side when on the other side of the table there are multinationals speculating on the health of the sick. Secret agreement: it cannot exist in a democratic republic. That is why we provide you with the 60 billion of your expertise to try to advance development.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u74	LIUZZI (CoR). Minister, you are right when you talk about the complexity of the negotiations of TTIP and CETA, especially when it refers to the issue of standards. But let me suggest to you, as regards the removal of suspicions, particularly on the role of multinationals, that you increase the level of information on economic operators, including through the involvement of employers' organisations and of course the Chambers of Commerce at provincial level, beyond the button room set up at the Ministry. Probably this more engaging and capillary action could serve the purpose. As well as to increase - and I conclude - the degree of appetibility of Italian enterprises, you authoritatively, from within the Government, can certainly affect virtuous actions, first in order to shorten the times of civil justice, second in order to shorten the time of collection of claims by the enterprises towards the public administration and, finally, in order to give, precisely, to the enterprises certain times in all senses.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u75	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I would like to thank Mr Calenda for his helpfulness and all the interrogators.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u76	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-685.ana.u77	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 27 September, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5 p.m.
