ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 28 January.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u4	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u8	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I am speaking on a very serious matter. President, respect for minorities is needed. I would like you, in this place, just as you play your vice-president, to apologize to the disabled, to all people who love the disabled, to me mother and representative of all mothers of disabled people... [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, PD, M5S, AL-A, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE and LN-Aut.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u9	It's already been done. Your speech, therefore, is at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u10	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). To all of you... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Protests from Mixed Groups, PD and M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u11	Apologies have already been made. You could have asked at the end of the session.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u12	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes. [[Lively protests from PD, M5S and Mixed Groups.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Apologize!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u13	I should like to inform you that, as you have already informed Parliament's groups on the short lines, tomorrow's Question Time sitting at 4 p.m. [[Reiterate protests from PD, M5S and Mixed Groups.]] I beg colleagues to calm down. You said what you had to say. VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As I said, at 4 pm the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Professor Pier Carlo Padoan, will answer questions on the following topics: initiatives to strengthen the banking system; developments and prospects of public finance. CIOFFI (M5S). What are you doing? SANTANGELO (M5S). You don't have to go on until you apologize.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u16	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I believe that you will not miss the fact that you are creating an accident that is absolutely avoidable. Please reactivate Senator Bignami's microphone and allow her to express her disappointment. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PD, M5S, Mixed, AL-A and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]] You are now also a representative of the entire Senate. Complete your role and (please) give Senator Bignami the floor to allow her to express her disappointment, in a democratic relationship, as should be done in this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PD, M5S, Mixed, AL-A and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u17	Senator Candiani, you know that usually such interventions take place at the end of the session. Just to promote a constructive climate, I have Senator Bignami finish her surgery for a minute. Please continue, Senator Bignami, but be brief in your conclusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u18	I'll be very brief, so you understand perfectly. I would like you to apologise at this moment, as you exercise your role, to excuse the disabled, to excuse all people who love the disabled, to all those whom you have offended with your obscene phrases, I would say almost medieval. And I'd like you to apologize to yourself, to yourself, to you as a person, to you as a man and to you as a Vice President. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, PD, M5S, AL-A, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE and LN-Aut.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u19	The apologies have already been made and I renew them. They were published on the ANSA agencies yesterday and I personally not only apologise to people with disabilities, but I remember that - you have also witnessed initiatives to which you have had the education to involve me - my commitment to support disabled people is ancient, continuous and sincere and will be even more intense for more reason.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u22	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). I appreciate the apology you have also made because, as everyone knows, you have always been involved in social affairs, and we also know that words can run away. But the choral applause from people who think differently from me and open the door in Italy to the suppression of disabled people, abortion and uterus for rent... [[Protests from PD and M5S groups.]] CARDINALI (PD). Shame! GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). You're supporting the contracts for the woman to have an abortion. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u23	Senator Giovanardi, since we are all in general discussion, we will be able to express our views in that forum. And I too will do so in the light of our commitment to supporting people with disabilities and in many other situations.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u24	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2081, 14, 197, 239, 314, 909, 1211, 1231, 1316, 1360, 1745, 1763, 2069 and 2084.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u25	Mr President, I believe that the speeches you have made before me, apart from the clarification you made long before speaking in this House, bear witness to the climate in which this debate takes place. It was certainly an unfortunate joke, but we who stand on a different frontier are constantly being offended and dilated. On the day of the Family day I was approached by a subject or subject - it was not understood well - who wore a priest's dress and three crosses with a microphone behind, which gave me all the colors. On Sunday, in an area of Rome, representatives of an association propaganda thesis against civil unions were attacked and their headquarters were devastated. When, then, you stand up and you go to defend freedom, you have to defend everyone's freedom. This is just one of the many lies, one of the many instrumental attitudes behind the alleged debate on civil unions. Behind the title in the defense of rights and minorities, in reality the game is another: it is the attempt to redesign our society through the ius soli, through the short divorce, the uterus for rent and the adoptions and gay marriages; a society, therefore, where there are no mom and dad, but parent 1 and parent 2, in which, through the pseudoculture gender, you want to create men without soul, without face and identity. We want to undermine the family, which all the Constitutions of the world have intended to protect, because it is the centerpiece of society and of the State and, through it, the future of every nation is created. Equality and non-discrimination require people in similar conditions to be treated equally and persons in a different condition to be treated differently. Marriage is not a mere contract, but an act by which the spouses assume precise duties that reverberate on society, and in this regard, among other things, one of the many lies that lies behind this story is highlighted. It is not, in fact, true that homosexuals are not granted the same rights as other people, heterosexuals. The fundamental rights, that is those conferred by the State (not recognized by the State) are recognized to all. Then there are other rights, so-called ancillary rights, which exist if there is evidence of certain needs, some realities, but do not harm the dignity of the human person. An example for all: the right to vote is given to the adult; the minor cannot vote, but not for this he is harmed in his dignity as a person. Similarly, it should be pointed out here that it is not true that homosexual couples are not entitled to rights: exactly all the rights of heterosexual couples are recognised. And I can cite a few examples: the reparcability of the property damage and non-capital damage, everything that revolves around the home and the issue of transplants - and I remember that, in this regard, the doctor must inform the cohabitant - the insurances and I could go on. Let us make it clear that the only thing that is not recognised is the reversionary pension and, moreover, if the draft law in question is passed, I would like to see what money we are going to cover such a measure with. The same economic theme will be found when it comes to talking about ius solo about a million Christians who, with that mechanism, will be immediately recognized as Italians. At this point it is also good to say, in a very clear and clear way, what is behind this whole story. Behind this story are the interests of the great international financial lobby. All the studies have now confirmed that the LGBT population amounts to about 25 million people, on average very rich - the latest available data is WHO - who, of course, have as a whole a stratospheric purchasing power. In 2013, Forbes magazine estimated that the world market related to the LGBT population amounted to more than 3,000 billion dollars, of which a good part in the USA. After all, it is enough to see what happened in America, during the Clinton administration, a well-known democrat: a law passed in which it was established that only marriages between people of different sex should have been recognized, called The Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA). Well, those lobbyists broke out against this law, and it is no coincidence that the first 379 signatories to the motion against it were the managing directors of all major financial power stations. I mention only the CEO of Goldman Sachs, who said that this is a matter not of law, but of business, market and money. Always in America - and then, if you want, we also talk about Europe [[Comments of Senator Cioffi]] - just scroll through the list of the rich, the VIPs, the powerful, the bankers who are behind those lobbyists and give them the money. Let me give you a few examples: Cliff Asness with 1.5 million dollars; Jeff Bezos with 2.5 million dollars; Bill and Melinda Gates with 500,000 dollars; Daniel Loeb with 1.5 million dollars; Jon Stryker with over 2 million dollars. That is the reality: this is a problem that concerns only the high sections of the population, those who can spend. Linked to this market there is obviously that crap called stepchild adoption, i.e. the commodification of parenthood. I don't understand: when Mr. Cirinna [[Comments of Senator Cirinna]] He was city council member of the City of Rome, he had done something right, establishing that kittens could not be taken away from the kittens during the sixty days after the birth. Well, what is true of cats, here is not true of children, who in this story are the weak link. It would suffice to quote what they have declared as characters such as Gianna Nannini, Elton John or Dolce and Gabbana. [[Brusio.]] Excuse me, guys! (Senators Barani and Ruvolo talk to each other.) It's okay that you have to support Renzi, but don't screw up. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Colleagues, everyone here is free to say what they want, even those who speak, being enrolled in the debate. ARACRI (FI-PdL XVII). These characters, who are known icons of the homosexual world, have made statements with great clarity and honesty. Elton John said it's gonna be a drama when he has to explain to his son that he doesn't have a mom. Gianna Nannini said that it is not a right to have children and that children must be educated and not indoctrinated. Sweet and Gabbana have clearly said: we are sexual [[Comments from the M5S Group. Laughter]] and therefore, nature, and not a law, has given us this state and we must take note of it. I believe that in order to deal with this subject without infiguration, we need to refer to the simplest and truest thing, which, moreover, we want to deny, namely nature, and it is evident that children are created through female eggs and male seeds. If a small child cries goes to her mother and asks for her; if a child has a problem, he asks for his father. Moreover, in addition to this, it is necessary to mention a whole series of psychologists and scientific topics, which have demonstrated - it is reported by the most well-known international journals - that children raised with homosexual parents have a series of problems to a far greater and more significant extent than children raised with a heterosexual couple. We will be able to mention the research of Professor Mark Regnerus, professor at the Texas University of Austin, who appeared in a scientific journal. This research - as other professors have pointed out, including Loren Marks - is the most serious as regards criteria of analysis, which have been among the most rigid and scientific, and it is that which, to date, has examined the largest random sample, from which emerges a whole series of problems that affects children living with homosexual couples. Another element that negatively affects the formation of the child entrusted to homosexual couples is linked to the stability and exclusivity of the relationship of couples: these elements that are missing in homosexual couples. A heterosexual couple - and I certainly have not established this - is considered to be lasting if it reaches at least twenty-five years of coexistence; a homosexual couple is considered lasting if it reaches five years; one third of homosexual couples are together on average less than two years; another third between two years and five years; the last third more than five years. The same applies to the exclusivity of the couple: it is shown that more than half of men and women with homosexual tendencies in the first year of couple life have at least another partner [[Comments of Senator Nugnes]] , with 66 percent points in the world of the bourgeoisie and the high bourgeoisie. In essence, as a series of studies (including that of Barbagli) claim, in homosexuals the stability of the union is all the greater the more the couple is open. Other researchers have come to the same conclusion, and I quote only two: the Americans McWhirter and Mattison, which I would point out are homosexuals. A recent study by the American College of Psychiatry, which is one of the highest organs, also highlights the risks of childhood linked to the homosexual lifestyle of parents. Finally, it should be mentioned what the professor of dynamic psychology of the University of Pavia, who recalled how Sigmund Freud defines the Edipo as the architrave of the unconscious, that is the triangle that connects father, mother and son, and the game of these parts help the son to take the place that belongs to him in the geometry of the family. And he adds that it is not irrelevant that the child of a homosexual couple cannot be confronted in the definition of self with the problem of sexual difference. Other Italian scholars (one for all, psychologist Italo Carta) have stated that "the pairs of homosexuals who not only adopt a child but get impregnated and inseminate prepare a serious risk" relative to a whole series of pathologies for these children: depressions, personality disorders, identity, borderlines, people who do not know who they are and lead, among other things, to collapse the father figure. Of course, everyone points out that, where this story goes, the child and society are at great risk first and foremost. All this draws attention to the history of the uterines for rent. Now in America it costs $40,000 to $125,000 to have a baby packed. Yesterday we witnessed the testimony of a Mexican woman, but lived in America, who for economic reasons, years ago, rented her uterus: in 2004-2005 she made a contract in which she was expected to see the child every tot month, but today, in early 2016, the homosexual couple to whom the child had been entrusted disappeared; the judges have wronged the Mexican woman and even condemned her to keep the child, without being able to see it. It is news of last week that, through a Nepalese agency, two Israeli homosexuals ordered a child. The Nepalese agency sent it to him after a while, but, after getting a hit on the genes and more, those gentlemen were no longer well off the baby, so it was packed and sent back. At the beginning of the sitting, there was talk of disabled people, but now I would like to hear from those distinguished colleagues and scientists what they have to say about this matter. Where did the feminists go? How can we not imagine the new slavery of modern times, where only the rich will exploit Indian, Italian and African women to do such a crap? They will be brought to the world of children who will no longer know who they are and obviously, being treated as a postal package, will suffer all the consequences. Finally, I would like to stress the umpteenth lie that lies at the root of the debate. It is not true that Italy is last: I would point out that in more than 85% of the 193 countries that join the UN, weddings between gays, uteri for rent and all that comes from it are forbidden. This is a problem that I would dare to call European only. In Germany and France, too, this is forbidden. This Europe, which in recent hours is demonstrating its fragility, which is a Europe of bankers, broccoli and the purchase of ducks, is not a union of peoples. He cannot be interested in the destinies and destinies of each nation because each has its own culture, tradition and history. They tried to curb the immigration of migrants and terrorists and left Italian families alone. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u26	She's enlisted to speak Senator Filippin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the limited time allowed to me, I will not talk about the need for our country to have an institution that recognises the rights and duties of the homosexual union as a stable coexistence between two persons of the same sex, whose fundamental right to live freely as a couple, as stated by our Constitutional Court in the now famous judgment n. 138 of 2010. Others have done it and will do it after me. I, on the other hand, would like to go directly to the point of greatest contrast, to the line that divides, in the heart of the controversy, since, at least in words, everyone in this House - except, perhaps, Senator Aracri - recognizes the right of every citizen to live freely the affective relationship, regardless of his sexual orientation. I would like to talk about children, children and the alleged right or claim of adults to be parents. I will only talk about Article 5 of the Cirinna bill that many of us have signed. Some argue that Article 5 of Law No 2081 gives the homosexual or - worse still - homosexual citizen the right to a child, a right that no adult, of course if homosexual, should have; a right intended as the realization of his own desire, as a right to the person, as if it were an object of property. Well, there is none of this in the Cyrinna bill. On the contrary, it is precisely the absence of any reference to the rights or duties associated with being parents and, therefore, to procreation that distinguishes civil union from the marriage and natural society that is founded on it. In the first draft of the bill Cirinna there was an explicit reference to article 147 of the civil code that, for those who do not know it, regulates the duties towards the children. It's been removed. There was a reference to Article 148 on parental participation in economic charges. It's been removed. It was expected that, in the certificate attesting to the civil union - like the marriage certificate - the personal data of any minor children of the civil union would be reported. This has also been removed. There is the explicit exclusion of adoption. Homosexual citizens cannot have access to the legitimate adoption provided for in Law No 184 of 1983. I inform my colleagues, who obviously do not know this law, that since 1983 the legislator had the foresight to think that, in order to give a family stability to a child, it is not necessary for the couple to be regularly married. That legislator had the foresight to predict the institution of special adoption, to which everyone can access, even lonely people. And I will scandalize you: even homosexuals can access it, provided that children cannot be adopted by so-called natural or traditional families, that is, by couples ritually and serenely married. As early as 1983, the legislator had made it clear that the first objective is to protect children. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bencini and Simeoni]] In the proposed Cirinna Act - although we want to continue to say this - all the prohibitions provided for in Law No 40 of 2004 have remained intact. Law No. 40 is not touched at all. How, then, does the bill Cirinna, which does not touch this point at all, have an effect on a completely different theme? Shall we discuss surrogacy? Shall we discuss procreation? Shall we discuss heterologous fertilization? Very well: let's do it in the appropriate seat, that is, in the law of revision of the law n. 40. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Simeoni]] In short, to the question of whether this bill gives the same sex couple the right to be parents the answer, colleagues, is no. It is an answer that I personally have doubts about and which I do not share, but it is a fact. Sure, there's article 5. There is the possibility of access to the adoption of the stepson in accordance with Article 44 of Law No 184 above, or rather of asking for the extension of parental responsibility on the legitimate child of his partner. Why was this institute planned? The legislator cannot ignore reality, cannot close his eyes and pretend not to see. I'll scandalize you again. Homosexual citizens have children. They can generate them in an absolutely natural way, for a late acceptance or understanding of their sexual orientation or for an explicit choice. Or they can generate them thanks to the techniques that modern science makes available, techniques in most cases prohibited in Italy, but allowed and legalized in other States, to which we Italians often look as a model or point of reference. Homosexuals can generate children and, unless they are prevented by force, sterilization or who knows how else [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bencini and Simeoni]] , children children of homosexuals or lesbians are there, there are and there will be. For how many laws are written, for how many walls are erected, for how many crimes or penalties are expected, the children are there now and there will also be tomorrow. The legislator, then, who sits - protempore - in this House is the only choice: whether to take care of these children, giving them all the protection, protection and care that our order allows, or ignore them, close their eyes and pretend that they do not exist, or - worse still - give them, knowingly, less protection and less rights because they are children of a homosexual or a lesbian. That is the choice we must make, colleagues. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Simeoni]] We must decide whether Giulio, two years or a little more, a helmet on his head and the certainty that when he grows up he will be a policeman, for the mere fact that he was born by a woman who has resorted to heterologous fertilization, he will always and only have one legal parent, even if next to his mother there is another woman who has shared his life from the first moment, has taken care of him, he cures him, educates him, maintains him and would like to continue to do so even if, unfortunately, he ends his affective relationship and cohabitation with Giulio's mother. We have to decide on Teresa, eighteen months old, who wears vexed red shoes, who has a dad but was born in California with the help of a surrogate mother and, therefore, with an action that in Italy is illegal, not allowed, punished as a crime. Well, we have to decide whether Teresa, for the mere fact that her father created her in this way, will be punished with a different legal treatment than any other child daughter of a single man who, however, has a wife or a partner of different sex life, who can therefore have access to the special adoption under Article 44 of Law 184 of 1983. This and only this is the choice that we must make by voting yes or no to Article 5 of the Cirinna bill: if, while condemning the way in which these children were born, even if we consider it illegal or immoral, we must give them full protection or, precisely because they are generated by acts deemed immoral or illegal, to these children we recognize only minor rights. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Repetti and Simeoni Senators]] I think that's a choice I have to make. If I care about children, their well-being, their protection, I cannot deny that I have, alongside the legal (or natural) one, another parent, full of duties and responsibilities towards him, if this responds to the child's higher interest. I do not say: our order already says so. That's what international conventions say. That's what our courts say. What do the courts for minors tell us now? What can be most useful for the child must be assessed in concrete terms, with a view to the full development of personality and the realization of valid interpersonal relationships. This protects the supreme interest of the child, with the recognition of more complete and complete parenting relationships, because this ensures the continuity of affection with the "social" parent, that is, with those who already take permanent care of the child, and it is ensured that the "social" parent will not fail to the care obligations and their responsibilities, even patrimonial, towards the child. I am told that these children are already protected. But if Giulio gets hurt and the legal mother is far away, who could make the decisions for her medical care? Not the other "mom." Just as you couldn't sign him up for school, talk to the teachers, take him to football, drive him by car. The other "mom" - without extending parental responsibility - would have no power, nor any responsibility or rights towards Julius. What if Teresa's dad gets sick or, alas, dies? Sure, the other dad might ask to take care of it, but in the meantime what happens with Teresa? Far removed from the affections, from his home, from his stability, he should hope for the kindness of the relatives of the legal father (if there are) and the intelligence and foresight of the judges of the court of minors, who fortunately are there. Judges must not be elected and they have no places to answer or vows to win; they must do only what is the best interest of the minor. I've heard so many slogans these days. I'll add one: "Children don't touch each other, by whomever they are born. Children protect themselves, whoever their parent is. Children are all the same, whoever brought them into the world. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators De Cristofaro and Repetti. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u28	Senator Aiello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u29	Mr President, the impact that the public and plenary debate on civil unions is currently having on society and its dynamics requires us to start first from a reflection on what is the common feeling, transversally present in the country, on this issue, avoiding any purely ideological approach to the issue. A demonstration like the one that took place on 30 January last, the Family day, showed how society is ready to mobilize and to go to the streets to defend the Constitution material and formal and a vision of society that values and protects the family as it has always been conceived, as a natural society founded on the union between a man and a woman. I would like to point out, Mr President, that we are speaking from absolutely secular positions, albeit in the misunderstanding, but very widespread meaning which is attributed to this term. It is in fact a gross mistake to think that a matter of extraordinary interest, such as the introduction of recognition to de facto unions, can be presented as a conflict between clerics and progressives. There is someone who claims that being secular does not mean being against the Church; and this certainly corresponds to the truth. It is also argued that the layman does not take sides on religious issues; but this, Mr President, is not possible, as everyone, but above all the world that defines itself as secular, cannot be considered disinterested in a dramatic legislative revolution that, if voted, would have a profound impact on our society, transforming it but above all modifying the structures within which our children will be forced to live. Those who know history know perfectly well that this is not developed by linear growths, but also involves dramatic involutions. To claim only the category of law, ignoring that of duties, does not necessarily involve effective social progress. We Italians should know this, experts as we are of the disastrous effects, that we are not yet able to repair, of many initiatives that, presented as exceptionally positive and certainly improving, have instead destroyed our society. Here we risk a dramatic replica of mistakes already made. The heterosexual family, as a natural family founded on marriage, is the only one recognized by the Constitution, because it is oriented to procreation, to the maintenance, to the education of children and to the protection of motherhood; it is therefore the only one to deserve the benefits and the provisions that the law assigns to them and that cannot be taken away from them, distracting them for the benefit of any other kind of union. The Constitutional Court itself has stated that the meaning of the constitutional precept of Article 29 cannot be surpassed by hermeneutics, because it would not be a mere re-reading of the system or abandoning a mere interpretive practice, but rather a creative interpretation. It must therefore be reiterated that the norm does not take into account homosexual unions but is intended to refer to marriage in the traditional meaning of that man-woman institution. In this regard, Mr President, we would like to recall the French author Jean-Pier Delaume-Myard when, in his last interesting work "Not in my name" describes his life as a homosexual couple but his being against marriage between people of the same sex, not for reasons of union between two people who love each other, but for the fundamental problem of the child and his right to have a father, a mother and grandparents. As Delaume-Myard claims: what would be the child's references? No to the object child. So, Mr President, this bill, by introducing a clear overlap between marriage and civil unions - identical are the ways of celebration, dissolution and impediments, perfectly symmetrical the rights and duties between spouses on the one hand and partners of civil union on the other - goes in the opposite direction to what the Court has expressed. Moreover, it seems a real legal fiction to identify civil union as a specific social formation, distinct from the traditional family, except then explicitly to recall for it all the references of the civil code on the discipline of the family. Of the two: either civil union is considered to be a separate social formation and consequently any reference to the articles of the Civil Code on Marriage and the traditional family is removed from the text or, on the contrary, is equivalent to the same. As Mr Sacconi also pointed out in his illustration of the question of constitutionality, first of all the whole of the measure, especially in its first part, finds many aspects that are in stark contrast to the existence in the Italian law of the so-called family favor, that is, the protection granted to the family. If it is necessary for the protection of its rights, the Constitution not only allows, but requires the legislator to establish a special regime for the benefit of the family, different from the common one, formally derogating from the principle of equality enshrined in Article 3 of the Constitution, but in reality consistent with the substantive equality recalled by paragraph 2 of the provision. Favorable treatment can also significantly burden the community and sometimes directly affect the rights of third parties in relation to the matrimonial relationship. Consider, for example, the provisions and tax exemptions granted to households, albeit to a very lesser extent than in other Member States, or the survivor's pension in favour of the spouse, resulting in a significant - but constitutionally justified - increase in the public budget borne by the community. Now, the so-called bill on civil unions extends the regime that is provided for spouses and the family to forms of coexistence between persons of the same sex. This extension is without reasonable justification for those who are linked by forms of cohabitation that, not being based on sexual dimorphism, differ in substance from the family and do not share that social function that justifies its special regime that enjoys in the order. The principle laid down in the first paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution, which requires the legislator to treat equal situations in a different way and in a different way, is easily infringed by assimilating to the family regime that of different social formation. Extending the benefits expected for marriage to other forms of coexistence, as the draft law under consideration would like, degrades the meaning of constitutional preference for the family, as previously recalled. Of course, the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union recognises that Member States are free to give public recognition or not to cohabitation; but if the legislator decides to give such recognition, the Court itself requires that cohabitation be guaranteed the benefits of the family based on marriage. We intend to respect the constitutional dictation by defending the uniqueness of the institution of the family. In this respect, the scope of Article 81 of the Constitution, which is manifestly infringed in relation to the insufficient budgetary coverage of the rules on the extension of the survivor's pension to the surviving member of the civil union, cannot be overlooked. The provisions on public accounting require that the burden be assessed when the effects arise on the regime, so "at least" for ten years and actually in the time when the average mortality of the parties to the civil union is determined; instead, the text under consideration assumes only the tenth year in which, for obvious reasons, the mortality rate is obviously inconsistent and far from the values to which the rules have their full effect, giving rise to compulsory expenditure of a very different dimension. It was then the judgment n. 138 of 2010 of the Constitutional Court that clarified that the legislation in the matter of marriage does not discriminate against couples of persons of the same sex, that marriage cannot be accessed, specifying that they are not homologable to this: to establish, therefore, the application to civil unions of all the norms relating to marriage, as Article 3 of the bill does, represents a violation of the principle of equality, in application of the principles of judgment n. 138 and of the principles matured in the interpretative practice of Article 3 of the Constitution in the many decades of activities of the Constitutional Court, since it means treating in an equal way substantially different situations. The equalisation of the spouse carried out by Article 3 of the bill only in favour of the one or her who is part of a civil union discriminates, in violation of Article 3 of the Constitution, all other categories of persons who cannot access marriage, as referred to in Article 2 of the bill: in particular all categories of persons to whom marriage is also prevented under Articles 84 to 89 of the Civil Code (minors, prohibited, already married, relatives or similar, sentenced for serious crimes, women in recent widowed mourning). Moreover, there is no reasonableness in overcoming the impediment to civil union, equal to marriage, for the single category of persons of the same sex. Not to mention article 2, paragraph 6, which disposes as to the choice of the surname, civilistic disposition this inevitably connected to the needs of a heterosexual family, because built on procreation and therefore on the transmission to the children of the surname of the parents, and the concept of fidelity, referred to in article 3, paragraph 1, which has been dilated in time with respect to the original borders, mainly coinciding with the exclusivity in the sexual relationship, and today is oriented in the broadest direction of the affective and sexual relationship in the context of family life. It thus takes on a publicistic importance also in the light of the civilistic institute of the presumption of paternity, as such placed within the heterosexual family. Similar conclusions, Mr President, can be drawn with regard to the power of the parties to the civil union to establish the common residence, agreeing with each other the direction of family life, since it is difficult to think that such a forecast is justified in a family context that cannot procreate, and the necessary heirship recognized to the partner of the civil union, where the corresponding provision of the civil code identifies as such only ascendants, descendants and spouses. In other words, subjects related to de cuius by relationships of kinship related to the ability to procreate. What has been said so far is the regulation of the rights of the members of the union, people who can make the choices they think are best for themselves. But the present bill is not limited to this. I am now going to analyze the most delicate point and at the same time the most divisive of all the bill, as it is likely to upset forever the vision of the family to which we are all accustomed, the one we all know, putting the interests and rights of adults before those of the minor, which nothing can decide for himself: the question of the recognition of the so-called stepchild adoption in favour of the son of one of the members of the civil union. One cannot fail to point out that Article 5 of the draft law in extending the non-legitimate adoption allowed to the spouse by Article 44 (b) of Law No 184 of 1983, infringes Article 31 of the Constitution according to which the Republic protects children by favouring the institutions necessary for this purpose and Article 117 of the Constitution, according to which the legislative power is exercised by the State and the Regions in compliance with the Constitution, as well as the constraints arising from Community law and international obligations. Italy has ratified and enforced the 1989 New York Convention on the Rights of the Child by Law No 176 of 1991; the articles of the Convention provide for respect for the best interests of the child (Article 2), the right of the child to the link with his or her parents (Articles 7, 8) and, in the event of adoption, a verification of the situation of the child in relation to his or her father and mother (Article 21). The adoption provided for in article 5 and the possibility to realize the international one left open by paragraph 4 of article 3 of the bill do not provide for any verification of the primal interest of the minor and of the respect of his rights as provided by the New York Convention. The desire of a child is understandable and legitimate, but the desire in itself does not constitute a sufficient element for its translatability into a claim, let alone a right. No one - homosexual or heterosexual - has the right to have a child. The entire juvenile order, which is consistent application of Articles 31 and 117 of the Constitution, with reference to the aforementioned New York Convention, recognises the existence not of a right of the adult to adopt, but of the minor to have a family. Family means explicitly - in compliance with Articles 29 and 30 of the Constitution - duplicity of parent figures and not duplication of the same figure. Putting, as is the case in the draft law in question, the first presumed right to the second place means reducing the child to an object (you are entitled to something, not someone) and this contrasts, in addition to the constitutional norms just mentioned, also with Article 2 of the Constitution. The reversal of perspective logically leads to the legitimization, through the norms of the bill, of the deplorable practice of so-called surrogacy. The construction of the adult's right to have a child can be followed in the adoption as in the gestation by a biological mother, after another woman has given up her egg. This, in addition to being in clear violation of the constitutional rules concerning the children mentioned above, is contrary to Article 32 of the Constitution for the serious risks - on which there is extensive literature - that it determines for the health of the women affected by the practice itself. The rented uterus objectively represents the cornerstone of man's future paths. It is really paradoxical that, after the necessary mobilizations against sex tourism or child labour, many of those who have emphasized them do not feel the same duty to protect mothers forced from the need to give birth and deliver their child. Not to mention the rights of children. Allowing a rule to open dangerous spaces for this hateful practice means consenting to the separation of births from the procreative elements of an affective relationship, accepting the trade of the human against our solidarity tradition and the selection of the species, overcoming that parental diversity necessary in the individual path of each. All conclusions we can't afford to come to. To conclude, therefore, there are three conditions which are necessary for a fruitful continuation of the parliamentary dialogue on civil unions, as my colleagues have repeatedly expressed in recent days, and which I would like to reiterate today. First: via every reference to marriage without referrals to the civil code; second: via adoptions from article 3, paragraph 4, and from article 5, without any subordinate; third: uterus in rent and trafficking of procreative elements become crime, not only internal but also universal, for our criminal legislation. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u30	Senator Del Barba is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure before us deals with the issue of homosexual civil unions and cohabitations, aspects which concern the concrete life of our citizens; important questions of principle, of course, and fundamentals of our society, which call on our own conscience as a people accordingly, forcing us to examine our identity deeply, to reopen debates in the past carried out in a tearful way, to face delays and social blocs, which, perhaps, would have preferred to leave for another more consolidated, less dense and fragmented political season. We should be aware, ladies and gentlemen, of the seriousness of the task entrusted to us and which we have assumed, but on the contrary, it seems to me that there is an attempt to re-establish improbable bipolar glaciations: an ethical bipolarism that looks more like out-of-fashioned furberies and represents the unconditional reflection of a certain policy, which can do nothing but take refuge in their respective squares, stand up as a champion of one side or the other, called surreptitiously at stake, avoiding its responsibilities by demanding the postponement of the game for practicability in the field. Of course, the exaggerated obstructionism exercised in the Justice Commission has effectively prevented our colleagues from effectively ending a path, from operating those high mediations that serve on these occasions, leaving the House, the complexity of relations between the Groups, the difficulty of identifying clear and coherent majorities, the darkness of regulatory passages that we will have to carry out in a new way the task of making a synthesis and fully recover the sense of this responsibility. First of all, it must be acknowledged that the text before us obliges us to stand in a single blow in all the harshness of this debate (it does not save any of them) and obliges us to make an amendment which is not easy, absolutely partial even in relation to the intentions of the individual proposers, because it is technically impossible to close within amendments a willingness which should also touch on aspects of our legislation in this Chamber which are not practicable, as my colleague, Mrs Filippin, has also pointed out effectively. It is a boldness that I would have avoided even personally at the time, being one of the signatories of a bill on this subject that was intended to deploy our action in intermediate stages, aimed at solving in a more radical way the nodes that are placed to us, but at the same time to favor its full understanding, avoiding unnecessary fractures and sterile reproductions of a failed past. Today is the time of courage. Each one of us, as he could, has made clear some reasons, without being able, in my opinion, to break down the wall of misunderstanding that the past has given us as an uncomfortable legacy. Today we have a duty to advance along a path as much as possible shared in the country, to guarantee rights and to look at the concreteness of situations knowing how to reaffirm all the doors of civilizations that our Constitution and our democratic order maintain and express already today through the different ways we know. We must be champions of the country and of the reforms we have committed ourselves to giving life and form to this legislature: I am referring both to those who have joined the broad understandings and to those who have not done so, but have always denounced their condemnation of the past and the status quo. Failure to complete this legislative process would be a defeat for everyone and, above all, for the country. Homosexual civil unions are the urgent, necessary and coherent response to the Constitution of our country that this Parliament must state decisively. Among the many amendments tabled there are all the real possibilities to improve the text that came to this House between a thousand pitfalls, beginning to give answers also to those children, Italian citizens - the most precious of our resources - who ask us for a certainty of their rights and wider protection. We have a duty to move forward in the direction already envisaged by our legal system and to respond to the demands of the famous judgment n. 138 of 2010 of the Consulta, taking the opportunity to clarify better the most controversial aspects that our laborious debate has had the merit of bringing out. I shall conclude, Mr President. It seems to me important to underline the gesture that the Senators of the Democratic Party unanimously wanted to make: to recognize the imperative need to get to the end of this effort, while guaranteeing its positive vote. Let us not bury our responsibilities in the regulatory pitfalls, in the earth darkness of the many votes rightly of conscience and probably by secret ballot: let us make here the effort that is still lacking in order to reach a political synthesis widely shared, that goes in the direction indicated by the text and avoid those zigzag paths or - worse - the returns to outdated misunderstandings that have nothing to do with the reformist season that everyone, with different tones, let's say we want to appeal. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u32	Our work is being followed by the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo "Matteo Ricci" in Rome, visiting the Senate, which we greet. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u33	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u34	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, as a candidate for the primaries as Secretary of the Democratic Party, Matteo Renzi entered into his program civil partnerships with the German stepchild adoption. This latter institution is translated into Italian into the adoption of the stepson, but if we analyze the words I like more to translate them to the letter: a step towards the adoption of the child. It is, therefore, a precise public legal institution and not any reduction in it. We don't need to make Italian-style civil unions. The Democratic Party has already decided on the topic when it chose the Renzi motion with 70 percent of the congressional votes: those who chose Renzi to the primary did so with the awareness that the program provided for this battle of civilization. Even the 5 Star Movement, when running for election campaign, committed itself to this. At that time I was still in the 5 Star Movement, in whose program there were egalitarian marriages in favor of couples formed by individuals of the same sex, and I remember that in June 2013 the Senate Act n. 393 was deposited, at the first signature of Senator Orellana, of which I was co-signatory along with many other exponents of the 5 Star Movement. Therefore, those who chose the 5 Star Movement also chose this political objective. Values and political objectives are not the property of any political group, but of all those who share them and carry them forward by committing themselves to achieving the objective. Today that I represent here the Group Italy of Values continues to carry on the commitment made, as Italy of Values supports the bill Cirinna on civil unions because we consider it a good compromise at the moment. Some of you Senators of PD, NCD and Popular Area, not to mention Lega Nord and Forza Italia, experienced a stomachache on article 5, the stepchild adoption, that step towards the adoption of the child that you just struggle to do. To us of the Italian Group of Values comes the stomachache instead only to think that someone pretends to forget that these children already exist, are already in our families, are loved and must be respected. Equality between parents cannot be denied. Parents cannot be deprived of the rights they should have on their children. These children, despite having two parents who love them, are for the state currently orphaned, at least one of the parties. Since the time of Voltaire and the Enlightenment, scientific research has always been the driving force of a civil society, interested in combating discrimination and prejudice, respecting the diversity and rights of all. What we would expect, at the beginning of the third millennium, is that we rely on scientific research before the emotions and prejudices of the individual or the solemnity often a little blind of the "tradition," when we are confronted with themes of which they are said to be ethically sensitive. However, it is not even today when it comes to civil unions and marriages for gay couples or when we discuss with very little-founded emphasis the damage that would result to children forced to grow up with two parents of the same sex. As Luigi Cancrini, a psychiatrist and a psychotherapist tells us, although little is said about it, research also exists on this topic and offers, to those who want to see, extremely clear data on which it is worth reflecting, disassembling the myth, first of all, of homosexual couples as tendentially unstable couples (as Senator Aracri reminded us also bringing a series of data to our attention) and little interested in family, because a large majority of young homosexuals (around 90 percent) design or dream of a stable couple's life and because a substantial majority of them (around 60 percent) plan or dream of having children. This study is mainly detrimental to the development of children who grow up with same-sex couples, because - I quote here freely a work of Salvatore D'Amore and others, "Couples homosexuals and homoparent families", published in "Thérapie Familiale" in 2013 - the research carried out so far shows that children and adolescents raised by homosexual parents have a degree of cognitive, emotional and social development and a level of mental health and relationship with their peers completely comparable to those of their peers, who grew up in heterosexual families; the same research also shows that young people, over twelve years old, raised by homosexual couples do not differ significantly from those raised by heterosexual couples, not even in terms of sexual orientation and self-esteemation, as well as emotional and psychological health, university success and social relations. The only problem with which children raised in homoparent families are confronted more than their peers is, in fact, according to the data of the research carried out so far, the prejudice to which they are subjected to the same as their parents. A prejudice that does not affect, however, as we have seen, the quality and serenity of their development and that is strong especially in life situations (e.g. in small countries) where social control is stronger and poorer culturally. No problem, then, for homosexual couples who want to have a child? Certainly not, but the quality of care these couples offer to their child is certainly up to those offered to their son by heterosexual couples. The choice to have a child often arouses negative reactions also at the level of the families from which homosexuals come, as well demonstrated by Salvatore D'Amore and Roberto Baiocco in a research carried out in Rome on the transition to parentality with a sample of lesbian couples (research 2014) who had decided to undertake their own path towards the construction of a family. What we are faced with again, in fact, is the force of prejudice that makes it more difficult for these couples to choose to have a child: a prejudice that is not able to affect, as we have seen, the good outcome of adoption, but that can prevent many homosexual couples from not reaching this choice. Will we, as Members of Parliament, also be able to take account of the data of this research when we are called upon to vote conscientiously? Will we all be able, as representatives of the Italian people, to take into account the fact that those who want to have a clean conscience must have done everything to know the things on which they are called to decide? Scientific research and science should be more important than one's own emotional reactions and the thought of what voters might have when making important decisions that affect everyone. A policy with capital should take this into account, because few things are as important as what sees us engaged today and in the next few days to combat the prejudice and damage that is caused by it. In our capacity as lay parliamentarians (because the State is secular and in these classrooms we are the State), we have the burden and the honor of being able to extend equal rights and duties for all. We make kids for the world. What belongs to those who have parental power is to guarantee their love and care, their heritage, their emotional continuity, beyond their sexual orientations and the relationship of love that binds people. The primacy of the family understood as father, mother and children I believe it can be expanded in the 21st century, since in fact it is already so, so it seems to me the least legalize and recognize rights in such situations. Then in a free country it is right that there is free thought and above all, where certain choices are not shared and accepted, one is free in one's own underwear and path of life not to make them. No heterosexual or homosexual is asked to go to have children through surrogate motherhood; no heterosexual or homosexual is asked to go to adopt children; no heterosexual or homosexual is asked to do inseminations, assisted fertilizations when they cannot have children. At the same time, no heterosexual couple has been recognized the primacy of being trustworthy and better parents than a single or homosexual or a homoparental couple and vice versa. The world is full of divorced heterosexuals, abandoned mothers, mistreated children, rejected children, abandoned children in the dumpsters or once at the wheel of the innocent (as we have in Florence), so the point is always the same: to guarantee love and care, but above all emotional continuity of those who have the power of the child. I hope that the debate will be on the substance and not ideological or media. It is an important historical moment for our country, I am proud to be able to participate in the birth of this law, both personally and as a representative of Italy of Values. I therefore wish all of us a good job and I remind everyone that love, of course, is never different. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Romani Maurizio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u35	Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u36	Mr President, the draft law we are debating today deals with one of the issues that has always divided public opinion and consciences, divided into different groups from the usual ones, even those that have been in the past and which are also majority forces today. I myself - and I say this immediately in order to avoid any doubt - have doubts about some part of this text and have a different opinion than what has already been expressed this morning by my colleague Mr Filippin, with whom I have a particular relationship of friendship and esteem, but I do not agree with his approach. I obviously have a different approach and above all, while believing in the same values, I would like to assure you that I care at least as much about the fate of children as you do, because in a different approach there is no prejudice against children, there is no discriminatory will and - I repeat - we are equally concerned about the fate of children. In the modest contribution to the legislative production of this Government, which has changed and is changing the structure of the democratic structure itself and which seeks to offer a normative, economic and social framework in harmony with the age we are living, my references have always been and will always be the Constitutional Charter and timeless values such as opportunities, justice, courage and freedom. Opportunities understood as a possibility that we offer Italians and Italians to be able to follow their own personal growth and affirmation, without discrimination that can come from third parties or from the legislator itself. We must always remember that we do not govern for ourselves, we do not legislate for ourselves, but we are lent to Italy to carry on the glorious history of cultural and social avant-gardeism. We must administer it as good mothers and good fathers of families who do not choose what life their children will make, but must work hard to offer them the tools to face their own future. I am referring, therefore, to values such as justice, understood as the right, like all others, not to be discriminated against by sex, race or religion, and therefore not even by sexual orientation. I have enormous respect for the Church, the Catholic religion and the other religions that can be practiced freely in our country, for the movements that legitimately and firmly express their positions, but different must be the approach of this Assembly to the issues that we are facing, without giving in to false moralisms or positions of extreme orthodoxy. I am referring to courage, such as looking beyond our certainties and, if I may, in some cases even beyond our fears. It is the courage to listen without preconceptions, but with responsibility, seriousness, respect and closeness, that we must have towards every one of our fellow citizens. Above all, we must look at the fears of those who are the target of this bill, at their sense of precariousness and at the impossibility of seeing a sustainable future. I am referring to freedom, understood as the space of affirmation granted to each of us, which ends exactly where the freedom of another individual begins. I hope - indeed, I am sure - that no one in this Chamber, now in 2016, wants to say that a couple of women or men who live in compliance with the law and the rules, can somehow affect our freedom. This bill does not serve to deny the positions of one or the other, to measure the forces of one or the other, but it is the answer - certainly perfectible, like any measure we adopt, but which nevertheless constitutes a milestone in the history of our country - to the demand for equality that comes from all Italians, or in any case from most of them. Although it has already been mentioned in this Assembly that homosexuals declared in Italy are less than 2% of the population, more than 71 percent of Italians recognize that it is also right to offer homosexuals who want it as a united and formalized couple, with rights and duties and mutual care and assistance. The draft law before us is therefore an act of civilization and coherence, which we owe to our people, to whom, perhaps, we also arrive late, after lustrous discussions never reached anything. Since 2013, the text has moved to the Commission to be amended and then amended again. We acknowledge to Parliament that we are finally catching up with reality. I am therefore very much in favour of the establishment of the measure, but I do not agree with the whole text, because, as I have also said in other contexts and circumstances, it has perhaps been possible to raise the bar too much, introducing issues that have raised great doubts in me. The problem, as has already been said abundantly, is Article 5. I believe that we cannot endorse this article, making our own the chimera of the "right to parenthood," let alone calling for protection for minors. I believe that these issues - not just myself, but eminent constitutionalists that I will quote later - are a mirror for the lark, from which many are attracted, without realizing that the right to parenthood is not sanctioned or recognized: I believe that this is an acquired fact. Being a parent is a legitimate desire, an aspiration, a responsibility, a path and a duty, which the State encourages, but certainly being a parent is not a right. With regard to minors, the theme of the child's preeminent interest was the key argument on the basis of which the text of Article 5 was written. Well, I do not agree with this view of the subject, considering that the alleged protection of the child instead masks the will to favor the interests or, if you prefer, the desires of the members the couple. Among other things, I have always expressed doubts about adoption, not for the institute itself, but because I simply realize - as has already been said - that today the institute, as regulated by law, needs a serious revision. I have also been a diligent member, asking that the whole institution be re-examined immediately, because if this were not the case, surely there would be unequal treatment, that already with the approval of the current text would be created, for example between homosexual couples, compared to couples of different sex. The approval of the norm as it is does not exceed problems of important importance and materiality, as I said, discrimination for heterosexual couples framed in this law; it does not place the necessary precautions to the possibility of the affirmation of practices of commodification of motherhood, that the chronicles tell us to be on the increase, giving space still to the mortification of humanity itself and in general to the trafficking of the human being and of the woman in particular. And then there is the question if perhaps the institution of adoption does not simply underlie the masking and legitimizing of the practice of the uterus for rent, which in Italy is prohibited under law n. 40 of 2004. Flick, Mirabelli and De Siervo are three eminent constitutionalists, all Presidents emeritus of the Council, who expressed their doubts about the content of article 5. According to their authoritative opinion, there would be no need for any explicit regulatory provision, since the current adoption law would be sufficient to respond to the concern of the natural parent for the fate of the child through the institution of special adoption, which has already been recognized at other times. The three lawyers mentioned, albeit with different nuances, state that Article 5, far from ensuring protection for the child, rather pursues the interests of adults and their aspiration to use surrogate motherhood and then extend parenthood to the partner, thus opening the way to illegality, in view of the prohibitions laid down by law n. 40 already cited. At this point I say: let's get out of this hypocrisy. Please note that De Siervo, who was in the Constitutional Court that issued the note judgment of 2010, which was the final impulse to regulate the matter, today, on Article 5, thinks what I have just explained. I have heard that it is also correct to approve Article 5 because many straight couples resort, despite the prohibition, to the practice of the uterus in rent by going abroad, so it is right to allow homosexual couples as well. It's fine with me, but I repeat: let's get out of hypocrisy and let's say it openly. We do not maintain a situation considered illegal by continuing to legitimize it by saying that the children are there. We look after the children who are there and there is already legislation that allows it. At this point, I would like to point out that there is an amendment which could prevent the practice of renting a uterus from still being practiced. This is an amendment that provides that this practice is considered to be condemned even in Italy even if it is committed abroad: We approve this amendment and we come out of hypocrisy. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Giovanardi and Quagliariello]] Let us say that the practice of the uterus for rent is absolutely forbidden and condemn it. If indeed the will is only to protect the children that are there, the law already provides for protection. If we think differently, we should get out of hypocrisy. But the supporters of this crazy theory will then have to justify before Italy and the Italians the commodity that would inevitably be made of women who, for economic need or, worse, for greed and greed of money, would lend themselves to carry on a pregnancy by giving up their biological child, to hand it over to the applicants at the time of birth, but also depriving the child of his biological parent, breaking that relationship of symbiosis that develops between mother and son from the moment of conception. I have put these perplexities to them, I have them again and they have not been escaped and, believe me, I am open to any solution that convinces me, that can eliminate these perplexities and that allows me to solve the problems that I have posed and that I have also placed others. To date, frankly, I do not share and I still do not share that part of the law. Since the views of all those in this House should always be based on a sense of responsibility, on the desire to contribute to the debate in the collective interest rather than to be directed towards electoral profits or the search for popularity, the hope is that we will continue to debate until we go to the vote, to seek a solution that can be shared and that it can solve problems that would inevitably arise if the law were to be adopted as it is, with Article 5. We cannot establish that civil unions are specific social formations and then connect them to the regulatory framework attached to marriage-related couples, without creating inequality and discrimination with respect to other subjects or situations. And for everyone, I quote the case of adoption by a single subject. Let's try to solve all these problems. Let's keep arguing. If we all take a step back together and try to confront ourselves, addressing the issue in the light of the many legal and social reflections that have contributed to the debate, with a view to fruitful work and in the direction of the epochal social changes that are profiled by this new legislation, I think we can find a solution. I myself will vote strongly in favour of the establishment of the law, because I share its content, and I am absolutely ready to find a solution that will give answers to the problems I have mentioned earlier. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u37	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u38	Mr President, we are late and we are not only late for the European directive, but because rainbow families already exist. There are already out there; they are simply, beyond us and our discussions. When I started to say in my family that we were going to discuss this bill, my children ginned their eyes and asked me: why? Isn't that right already? Do we need a law? For children and young people the problem does not arise, because this transformation, this evolution of families is already in films, TV shows and literature. We are talking about things that should already be in fact because in the fundamental principles contained in Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution all this is already given. Article 2 says: The Republic recognizes and guarantees the inviolable rights of man, both as a single person and in the social formation where his personality takes place, and requires the fulfilment of the indispensable duties of political, economic and social solidarity. In fact, let us remember that in this law we ask for rights, but also for the fulfilment of duties, of the subjects who engage in this matter. In Italy, therefore, even if there is no law and civil unions between homosexuals are not regulated, they are a fact, and this social formation already exists precisely because the Republic recognizes the inviolable rights of the individual in the family and in society, where his personality takes place. For this reason, Stefano Rodotà says that in order to continue to discriminate against homosexuals, one is obliged to violate the general principles of equality and recognition of the other. The reference to these principles has its roots in a long historical and philosophical tradition. The basic idea is that there are natural rights - just the natural one that is repeated many times in this House, as if it were a given belonging to some and not to others - that belong to the nature of man and, therefore, precede the very existence of the State and the State must recognize and, above all, guarantee, through the laws, this concept. With the law, we must adapt to a right, we must not grant it. Natural rights, consistent with human nature, are not linked to a particular citizenship. It is therefore not possible that in Italy there are no and elsewhere yes, because they belong to men as such, as human beings and their recognition is very important, because it obliges the Italian Republic to guarantee to all the same fundamental rights. With Article 3 of the Constitution, which recognizes equal dignity and equality for all, the Republic undertakes to remove all economic obstacles and take good care of them, because freedom and equality of citizens must be fully developed. Therefore, when I listen to your words, especially your preliminary questions, I observe that in your intentions you fail to respect this paragraph 2 of Article 3 of the Constitution. Do you appeal to Part II of the Constitution, which regulates economic and social relations and why? Because what you are concerned about is that certain economic privileges and certain benefits, which are now recognised for the family, are not extended, but this clearly contradicts Article 3. As far as the appeal to Article 29 is concerned, I believe that you have come to declare it false. I read, in fact, in Senator Sacconi's preliminary question that this article would even regulate sexual dimorphism. That is not true, because we are simply talking about "marriage" and we do not make any sexual difference, as the Constitution wants it to be. It would therefore have been possible, for us too, to extend the institution of marriage to homosexual persons as in 21 European countries, countries such as Norway, Sweden, Finland, Great Britain, Ireland, Spain, Portugal, France, Belgium, Holland and Slovenia. And yet no, we have taken this small necessary step, but remember that it is a small step. What is bothering you, though? You say that it is not giving other rights, the thing that worries you the most, but granting the adoption of the partner's son, because you feel that a homosexual couple is not adequate to raise a child. Well in addition to the testimonies in 21 European and American countries, Canada and in how many other countries that now consider homosexual marriage and adoption a fact, which constitute the proof, proven in the field, that this concern is not correct, there are also scientific studies that prove it. There is even an Australian study in 2014 (so recently) of Melbourne University, which conducted a unique experiment on 50 children of gay couples between the ages of zero and seventeen, an experiment that demonstrated not only that these children are healthy and affectionate like those raised in heterosexual families, but it undoubtedly states that they are healthier and happier, because the free expression of the individual less conditioned by a preconcept model manages to guarantee a greater chance of personality realization in a study of Columbia University in New York out of 72 cases observed 72 were positive, i.e. 100 percent. And so, again, in a Dutch studio. In short, if they grow up in a respectful and tolerant environment, children of homosexual couples develop just like everyone else, if anything happier than others. But what's stopping this thing in this country? It prevents homophobia, which is exactly the truth hidden in all your speeches, which comes from the fact that homosexuality puts into crisis the patriarchal model of the dominant male. It is clearly a destructuring of masculinism, and this frightens you. That's why I like it a lot. Even the Catholic judge Melita Cavallo, as a Catholic but as a citizen of a secular state, is convinced that couples in fact must have their own discipline, also because this does not take away rights from others. True, there is already an article in Law No 184 of 1983 which provides for this institution because it clearly says that the child can also be given to those who are not married, if he has developed a stable and lasting relationship with the child. And, in fact, thanks to this article of law, the judge allowed the adoption of the natural child by a mother's partner. However, you yourself say that it is not enough, because clarity must be made and an instrument must be given in the hands of the judges, so that this passage can actually be achieved in a peaceful and peaceful way. Another concern that you are so often talking about is that this institution opens the way to the possibility of committing a crime, i.e. using the uterus for rent. But, gentlemen, apart from the fact that no recognition of a right can ever regularize a crime, which is enshrined in Law No 40 as has been repeated several times, I would like to make you reflect only for a moment on the fact that going abroad and adopting a rented uterus is a scourge that exists and that must be fought, if not regulated as happens in Canada, but that it has nothing to do with the provisions of this law. In this case, however, sterile heterosexual couples and homosexual couples are absolutely on the same level of risk. In fact, in my opinion, heterosexual couples are in number and in case of much greater risk, because they are motivated by a social conditioning that wants the sterile couple discriminated, if without children, for social status. So I would say that it is precisely the stereotype of the model of the Family day that creates a huge risk, for straight couples, to seek a conditional satisfaction and to seek at any cost a social acceptance, even in violation of the law (with purchases of children and purchases of wombs), if anything even beyond the real desire for care. So beware of your fears! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u39	He's enlisted to speak Senator Borioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u40	Mr President, over the fifteen days we have been behind us, we have all witnessed, with attention and respect, the expression of two squares, different and to some extent, just as it is of the radicality that sometimes express the squares, even opposed. I believe that our task, the task that awaits us as legislators on such an important subject, is not to make ourselves the speaker of those squares, but to be able to express to them the ability to listen and take a conscious decision, having also the sensitivity and the eagerness to look deep into the country, also to the concrete life of a multitude of people, women and men, who in those squares have not expressed themselves, but who are bearers of a legitimate and no longer deferable demand for rights. I would like to say quite frankly that I am going to vote in favour of the bill which bears the name of my colleague, Mr Cirinna, because I believe that it sums up, in some way, the ability to listen and to take into account the many cultural needs and positions that have been expressed. In fact, the bill that we are discussing and that we are called to approve, as Monica Cirinna said, is a measure that takes into account the strong demand for rights from homosexual couples their request to see recognized, by a legal institution that qualifies in civil union a specific social formation, a right that they have long aspired to for a long time. On the other hand, this bill, in maintaining this institute strictly distinct from the family founded on marriage between heterosexuals and keeping strictly inaccessible the right to adoption completed, which instead is recognized to couples based on heterosexual marriage, intercepts in some way also the prudence, sensitivity and culture of the square that has found itself in the family day. For this reason I believe that we, as legislators, are called today to make this country take an important step forward, perhaps a step still, in some way, held back, with respect to the convictions of a part of us, but an important step because the many issues that remain open, of which many colleagues have spoken today, even colleagues of my Group, issues related to the sphere of affectivity and its regulation as well as to the front of parenthood, can be discussed - and this is the challenge that we, as legislators, must take - no longer by voices that oppose, trying to bounce off one's tones beyond a wall that divides those who still have no access to a right and who instead think that they are endangering their right to access to it by new families and new communities that are finally recognized. [[Applause from Senator Cirinna and Senator Lumia]] I believe that with this step forward we will promote the communion of the demands and the differences, on the ground of discussion and deepening that is still necessary to complete a plan that with this first step we begin to outline better, those squares that have opposed each other. This is the task that awaits us as legislators and interpreters of a national responsibility towards the national community. I wouldn't want it to seem that with this passage I want to diminish its relevance, but this law is also very important in the interest of the country, because to widen the front of social inclusion, to make access to the perimeter of rights those who are out of it today means to give more strength to that cohesion of the social fabric that the country needs to face the challenges it faces. I say this with the utmost respect for those who have wanted to remember in these weeks that Italy has other and more urgent problems. I believe that Italy has a lot of problems but I believe that addressing them includes a multitude of people who today are excluded from a front of fundamental rights for the person, is working to make the country stronger and more cohesive. Let me add a joke and finish, Mr President: it makes a little impression to look at the maps which, in these days, on everyday life, outline the European situation in the field of civil rights in relation to the regulation of the sphere of affective relations. In fact, at first sight, it seems to be Europe's map prior to the fall of the wall, with some exceptions, such as Hungary, Slovenia, Croatia and Estonia, which were in the field beyond the curtain and which today are, instead, among the states that have recognized this system of rights, and with the exception that I am very concerned, that of Italy and Greece, that were in the field of democracies before the fall of the wall and that today, on this front, they hold back. And since there have been some steps in this direction in the debate that we have had these days, I want to say that I believe that we must take this step not only and exclusively because Europe is asking us to do so, but also because we must deal with this step with one of the fundamental requirements that distinguish liberal democracies, that is, the principle that no one can be excluded from access to the fundamental rights of the person only because of what he is. It is one of the fundamental principles that informs our civilization, our democratic culture and taking this step means moving forward in the direction of building a system of rights that I believe will do well not only to those who today ask them, but also to the entire country and our national community. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u41	She is registered to speak Senator Bisinella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say at once that the right of minors to be born and to grow in the context of affection between a woman and a man is fundamental to us. The right of children, logically and emotionally, precedes any desire of adults for all those who have the meaning of our roots and our future. That's the rule for us. Now, this law must be defined, in our opinion, so as not to encourage the production of children separated from natural affectivity through stepchild adoption or equivalent forms. We have tabled amendments to the draft law jointly signed with colleagues in the People's Area and also a question of constitutionality and a question of suspension of two months. The latter, in particular, we regret that the House rejected it, precisely because we called for the return of the measure to the Commission so that further consideration could be given to the possibility of deleting Articles 3 and 5 of the text, which introduce the practice of the uterus for rent and homosexual adoption. The amendments aim to bring the bill back, through a series of repeals and amendments, to a text that deals with, yes, the recognition of individual rights and reciprocity for cohabitants and de facto couples, including homosexuals, but with some important proposals for amendments. For example, the one that prohibits, by regulating a specific sanction, the trafficking of cells and tissues, the one that introduces the universal crime for the practice of gestation on behalf of others and the one that makes traceability mandatory for medical purposes, guaranteeing children the right to knowledge of their origins. Having signed these amendments jointly and convincingly is significant, because it indicates that with our colleagues in the People's Area we have a common feeling about the principles underlying our society, the principles relating to man and, more particularly, the right of minors to be born and to grow in the context of the natural family. Therefore, there are no possible mediations on adoption. Either there is or there is no recognition of the right to homosexual parenting, to which we oppose the primary right of minors to grow up with a mother and a father. Reinforced foster care, pre-adoption, and the special process of adoption in the courts are also ways that can create asymmetries and interpretative difficulties with respect to the prerogatives recognized by heterosexual couples. Above all, the danger for us is the attempt to subvert the very concept of a natural family as enshrined in the Constitutional Charter, the only one oriented to the procreation and education of children, which was not by chance foreseen, precisely for the continuity of our civil society. 11:14 a.m. (Bisinella followed). This principle is not negotiable. For this reason we are opposed to any assumption of adoption or similar adoption, just as we are opposed to the same-marriage, which has the aim of weakening the jurisprudential presupposition to adoptions. Different is the case of the minor orphan, to whom the law in force on adoptions guarantees the continuity of affection. In fact, if a minor remains orphaned by both parents, today it is already expected that the judge will entrust him in adoption first of all to those who can guarantee continuity of care and assistance, even moral and affective. But the special case of child protection cannot and must not become the reason to make the desire of adults prevail as a general rule. With regard to reinforced foster care, the solution we have heard is making the problem worse because it leads to the reversal of protection, of this concept which we have of the protection of the child. Already today, the so-called trust in evidence is in fact a practice for any child who remains without parents, precisely because the judge evaluates its context, first of all family and affective. Thinking of a child in a way different from the natural order means wanting it at all costs as a project of satisfaction of one's own ego, nothing more, and to this, paradoxically, can come any form of forcing. Kids aren't a whim. Worse still is to want the law to intervene a posteriori to provide accommodating solutions aimed at guaranteeing that child that was held by force. The son always has a mother and a father who created him, and for him it would be desirable for him to grow up in the presence of his natural parents, in that family. The unions of another kind - with all respect for the diversity that we have - have nothing to do with the family, which is and remains the only complementary union of the two sexes, male and female. A child born of a womb bought by two men or two women still remains the son of a mother and a father, despite everything, and we cannot decide about life as if we were the creators. This is a reversal of the laws of life: deciding what is family and what is not, what is natural and what is not. The natural order of things cannot and must not be subverted. In this bill we wanted to introduce something that is not the protection of children first of all and above all, while a child in order to grow up well needs to see guaranteed by the State at least the minimum conditions to which he is entitled, and which are evident because they are inscribed in his conception: that he can know his roots and that he can grow with a father and a mother. Without a doubt - and it is fundamental to us - there must always be respect for the person as such, that is, for the individual immersed in a world of relationships, and human rights must also be recognised and guaranteed in his relations. We are convinced, however, that the family is the first school of humanity, of relationships and of dialogue. To upset this good of society as a whole by disrupting the concept of the natural family, as we want to do with this bill in which we wanted to introduce two articles, in particular the 3rd and the 5th. If there were the will, these two articles could be easily expounded from the text and then the provision would cover other subject, perhaps more widely shared. Instead, insisting, we want to force what is in the natural order of things, which, moreover, contrasts with public opinion and the widespread conception that our society has of the family. The theme of the family, therefore, has a great social dimension, and it is unacceptable for us to try to reduce it to a confessional dispute between the laity and Catholics, between extremist ideologies on the one hand and on the other. The debate on the family, on which the state is asked to regulate and to us, as a Parliament, to legislate, must secularly involve all those who care about the foundations and the maintenance of our social system, and must turn to the generality, to the majority of the population. It is not possible to legislate with a general nature in order to respond to the particular interests of a minority party. The issue of civil unions between people of the same sex cannot and must not be addressed by the perspective of individual rights, but rather by a social and community perspective, while keeping an eye on children's rights. The bill in question, on the other hand, moves in the opposite direction, not only because, through the mechanism of adoption by the partner of the homosexual union, it sacrifices the rights of children to the wishes of adults, as I said, not only because it encourages the use of surrogacy, through the exploitation of the body of women, who lend themselves, perhaps because they need it and to those who can afford it, but above all because it contains within it an equalization, even terminological, of the homosexual union with marriage and of the partner of union with the spouse. What worries us is not the recognition of rights, but the fact that through homosexual adoption we want to win the right to be parents, parenthood, and thus to achieve this equivalence by way of case law. A mistake that will certainly lead - if the text remains as it is written - to conflicts with our Constitution. Let us therefore take action to remove from the text of the draft law any reference to adoption, as referred to in Article 5, and also to reformulate Articles 2, 3, 4 and 6, in order to avoid misunderstandings. We are in the legislative phase, ladies and gentlemen, and that can be done. Let us not throw away this opportunity, because, I repeat, the theme, other, of civil unions would be widely shared. Let us remember that natural law and human rights must always take precedence over individual rights. In Parliament we are carrying out measures which are the result of ideological positions, which conflict with the ideals of the majority of Italians, while we are neglecting those legislative measures - it must be said loudly and loudly - which the family really needs and the delay in their adoption makes Italy Europe's taillight as regards policies of support for the family, the birth rate and the reconciliation of living and working times. These are the legislative measures that we should take care of. Colleagues, we recognize therefore the social value of the family formed by the union of a woman and a man and open to life: the family guaranteed by our Italian Constitution. [[Applause from Senator Bellot. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u43	Senator Casson is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u44	Madam President, Senators, I am one of the first signatories to bill 2081 (the so-called Cyrinnà bill) which is now before the Senate. However, I would like to point out in this House that I have had a little difficulty in signing it, because, as you know, it is a compromise - the third, perhaps even the fourth - with respect to the most complete original legislative proposal. However, we have achieved a positive result, pervicaciously and intelligently achieved thanks to the work of our colleagues in the Justice Commission, in particular our colleagues, Mr Cirinna, Mr Lumia and Mr Lo Giudice. However, less than that, it would not seem to me frankly possible to discuss civil unions or de facto cohabitations, let alone vote on them. In an attempt to meet the social and institutional needs of people who are still discriminated against for sexual reasons and children who are still denied fundamental rights today, we agreed to rewrite the text of the bill by softening some of its tones, while reaffirming its essential cornerstones. These are the reasons why I shall be voting in favour of this text, as well as all the extensive amendments in favour of full recognition of homosexual unions. In this House we have continued to talk about the alleged unconstitutionality of the rules in our examination, even after the Senate vote against the questions referred to us for a preliminary ruling and the exceptions made. For once, however, I would like you to be fully aware of the current situation. I am referring to the fact that the reasoning should be reversed and that we should start from the finding that the new rules proposed would not be unconstitutional, but rather the status of fact and law in which we now find ourselves as a society, as institutions and as an Italian State. It is a status of constitutional illegality proclaimed and repeated against and to the detriment of people nevertheless united by at least affection and against children that someone, with extreme contempt for the sense of humanity (and mercy, would say the ecclesial sources), continues not to want to protect in a full manner. They would like to perpetuate an institutional vacuum and a permanent state of non-equality and non-solidarity, frankly outside the social and civic history of humanity. It is first of all the Italian Constitutional Court that, with the judgment-monito n. 138 of 2010 and with the judgment n. 170 of 2014 on the so-called divorce imposed, noting precisely a regulatory vacuum in this matter, requires the legislator to intervene with the "maximum solicitude" to introduce a discipline that allows to regulate legally, with ordinary law, situations still discovered in fact and in law today, but placed under the aegis of Article 2 of the Constitution. It is also the European Court of Human Rights that on 21 July 2015 condemned Italy precisely for the absence of a discipline that guarantees adequate protection for non-marital unions and it calls us to respect the fundamental rights of persons and, in particular, to the protection of unions, including homosexuals. And the two Supreme Courts, mentioned in part here, do not carry out a generic hermeneutic activity or function, but rather intend to impose the respect to a series of principles in force, because already regulated. First of all, the draft law before us, far from violating any constitutional provision, instead constitutes implementation, albeit late, very late, as in various other cases, of that article 2 of the Constitution, to which the judgment n. 138 of 2010 has brought back with linearity and clarity, logic and legal, the civil unions, as one of the many social formations of which the Titles II, III and IV of Part I of our Constitution speak, while, I remember, Article 2 falls specifically among the "fundamental principles," to which all other norms are subject, must be submitted. I recall, among the various social formations mentioned in the Constitution, the same family of which so much is being discussed today, non-state schools, cultural institutions, academies, trade unions, workers' communities, cooperatives and political formations, including parties. But there is more, because our national law must deal with the European institutional system and the related decisions of the Community Supreme Court, to which we must relate. While it is true, as it is true, that in 2013 the Italian Court of Cassation clearly wrote that the choices in this matter are the responsibility of the ordinary legislator, also in confirmation of the decision of the same Court of 2012, which had literally reaffirmed the right to family life for homosexuals, and if we take into account the solicitude addressed to the legislator by the Constitutional Court in 2010, still literally, in the context of Article 2 of the Constitution, we must take note that the Constitution, and in particular its Articles 2 and 3 on the principle of equality, is in a hierarchical position superior to any other norm, in particular and of course those of the civil code. And this fundamental principle of equality is also an indispensable lighthouse for the European institutional system, in which the Charter of Fundamental Rights has removed the requirement of sex diversity, both for marriage and for any other form of family constitution, reaffirming strongly that discrimination based on sexual orientation is not allowed. It is enough to re-read Article 12 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Article 9 of the Charter of Nice to realize the specific provision of the right to marry and to set up a family for all, without discrimination. The Charter of Nice was transposed by the Treaty of Lisbon, which entered into force on 1 December 2009, and the relevant rules are now and certainly ius receptionum for our legal system. I said, in the premise, that I hardly accepted this compromise, also because I realized, especially during the nights of obstruction in the Commission justice by the center-right (which grotesquely had begun to displease even the difference of meaning and etymological between the adjectives "saffic" and "lesbian"), that the contrarys to this bill actually did not want changes. In fact, they did not want and do not want anything at all, no law, not even on the convicts of fact, provided for by Chapter II of the draft law, thus reaffirming that situation of constitutional void, illegal, absolutely despicable and unacceptable, inventing false excuses, false enemies, false and presumed inexcusable situations. Instead, we need to identify and free ourselves from those who are real "disputations." It makes no sense, in fact, the subtly and falsely terrified call to supposed surrogacy (also prohibited criminally since 2004) or to the uterus for rent. There is not in any part of the bill anything that allows such a reading or interpretation at all. This exists only in minds clouded by the worst clericalism, by the worst obscurantism, which in fact even comes to propose reinforced criminal sanctions, as if the epoch of the temporal power of the Inquisition were no longer a distant and regretful remembrance. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Bignami and Cirinna]] Here, however, it is very simply and in a very transparent way, to take note of so many situations of fact, of couples who love each other and of so many children and girls who already exist and who have fundamental rights, as persons, that politics and the legislator have the duty, social, ethical and legal, to regulate, bearing in mind the lighthouse of equality, dignity and solidarity. Similar considerations should be taken into account for the millions of people who have decided to live together in fact, which someone who has been obnubiated has even proposed to withdraw. However, the time is too long and I shall discuss it, if necessary, in the course of amendments. On the other hand, a mere mention deserves to be made of the insistence and repeated call - which it seems will continue - to an alleged defect of constitutional legitimacy for procedural reasons, for violation of Article 72 of the Constitution. This exception is clearly unfounded, first of all because Article 72 establishes a regulatory reserve in the part in which - precisely - it requires the parliamentary regulations to regulate the procedure under consideration, for the examination in the Commission and then in the Assembly (as well as the decision of the Constitutional Court n. 237 of 2013); second, it is because Article 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate provides that, if a Commission does not exhaust the examination in the referent within the time limit set in the programming, the draft law may be submitted to the Assembly in the text of the proposer, which is what happened in the present case, given the high number of amendments tabled and the obstructionism put in place. It should also be noted that, at its meeting on 12 October 2015, all the draft laws submitted until then on the subject were brought together on a proposal from the President and there were no observations in the opposite direction from anyone, not even the senators of the centre-right present, one of whom even intervened to reaffirm the practice followed, confirming the current and respected legislation. This is very clear from the minutes of the sitting of the Commission. In conclusion, may I address the High Magisterium of the President of the Republic, in order to ask for confirmation of a special attention to respect for our Constitution, in the sense that the current situation of illegality, substantial and constitutional legal, must be completely healed, meeting the needs and rights of all, including minorities, even the weakest and least protected, without making them pay responsibilities that they certainly do not have, in the context of the principles of equality and solidarity referred to in Articles 2 and 3 of our fundamental Charter. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senators Bignami and Romans Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u45	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the law must be done and that it must be done quickly. It is right to argue; we all have the opportunity to speak and we must do so constructively. I think that there are different views on this matter, but that the approach of those who say that if we do not approve a certain amendment does not vote for the law, it seems to me not constructive and in the end will not lead to any result. On the other hand, I think it is useful for the country to resolve this situation which is a problem. I'm gonna make a premise. There is no doubt that homosexuals have been very discriminated against for a long time. The country that taught democracy in the world, that is, England, 50 years ago punished as a criminal offence the fact of being homosexual. It is a fact that we cannot ignore if we are to come up with concrete solutions. It is for this reason that there are also heated polemics and sometimes with excessive tones. It is a subject that provokes divisions and we must respect the ideas of all. The debate - which I share - shows and highlights that, above all, two issues raise doubts, concerns and divisions. On these two issues I would like to express my opinion - I repeat - with great respect for those who have opinions other than mine; indeed, in some cases, and especially on the issue of adoptions on which I will spread later, I feel sincere envy towards those who have absolute certainties, because it seems to me that this matter is very complex and delicate. Therefore, the first theme is that of the equalization of civil unions to marriage: colleagues Palma and Caliendo, among others, have highlighted what formulations of the current bill raise doubts. On this subject, I want to make my personal point very clear: it must be avoided that the measure runs the risk of being declared unconstitutional and, therefore, I hope that the technicians will take action and think about identifying the amendments capable of overcoming the existing doubts. However, it must be borne in mind that, however, since civil unions involve rights, which cost the community, one cannot just say that such couples unite and "goodbye and thank you!" because, if so, a hole could be opened in the public debt. We therefore need to reconcile two facts. First of all, it takes some formalism to ensure that the union is true, lasting in time and has its real consistency. Secondly, it must not be equated with marriage, in order to prevent it from being unconstitutional. A number of amendments have been tabled on this subject which I hope will be appropriate. If they weren't, it would be worse for the measure and therefore for the country, because in two or three years' time there would be the risk of having everything called into question by the Constitutional Court. Then there is the issue of adoptions. I think a lot of things have been said on this subject. I remind myself that the practice of the uterus for rent, which I frankly cannot understand, even if in some countries it is allowed and is practiced by some of our fellow citizens abroad, in the vast majority of cases it is used by heterosexual couples. So let's not use arguments that, frankly, are a little trite. I believe that this is a very complex matter and that the situations to be considered are different. I would prefer the principle that adoption of homosexual couples should not be prohibited a priori, that this should be applied to the judge and that the issue of adoption should therefore be resolved not in this draft law, through Article 5, but with a specific provision on adoptions. I believe, in fact, that our country should also focus on the issue of adoptions in general, a theme on which we can do the good of children working better and more. I repeat: that is my opinion. I think Parliament will say: there are amendments in this regard and I will respect the will of the majority in the Senate. On the subject of adoptions, the vote I will vote will go in the direction I have just indicated, but if the majority of Parliament thinks otherwise, I think that the law must be adopted anyway and that Parliament must adopt it as quickly as possible. I see that Senator Cirinna has returned to the hemicycle and I therefore allow myself to make an observation. I appreciated his speech, which, despite his passion for a subject to which he devoted his energies, was generally moderate. In fact, I noticed that during his speech, as witnessed also by his gestures, he exercised a brake action, at all times. However, there is one statement that I do not agree with and I want to explain to you why: you said that this measure has already been amended and already represents a compromise, and if further compromises are made, diversity remains. I think that diversity is a fact, we must take it into account and avoid discrimination - on this we agree - and discrimination is better avoided by taking into account situations that are objectively different, just as we are all different in this House. This is the contribution that I have allowed myself to make. I am not a jurist and I think that each of us should try to make our own contribution and respect the work that the technicians who will try to put into practice the rules. Let us discuss this peacefully in the hope that the time will not be cut, because it would be a mistake. However, let us discuss concretely and arrive at a solution, because I think that the whole country should take care of this issue that concerns a minority, even if it is substantial but, precisely because it has been discriminated against for too long, it deserves to have the respect that everyone must have as Italian citizens. [[Applause from Senators Cirinna and Lumia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u47	Senator Repetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the interest aroused by this bill, in Parliament and in the country, shows that it is on issues that concern the rights of citizens that the real change of the country takes place. Like the issue of divorce, the theme of civil unions will also mark a watershed in Italian history. The truth is that once again we are called to take note of a progress that has already taken place in the conscience of Italians and that the institutions must in reality only formalize. We are late; the country has already surpassed us and is waiting for us. The responsibilities of this delay certainly has a careless policy, but the Catholic Church also has it, and I am referring above all to the hierarchies of the Church. We all know that the real issue, the real undiscovered nerve of the Catholic Church, as with other important religions, is sexuality and the relationship, still discriminatory in 2016, between man and woman. Sexuality is a crucial issue, which strongly affects the Church in her approach to many other issues and in her relationship with the faithful, unfortunately, increasingly distant. From divorce to abortion, from civil unions to bioethic issues, especially the end of life for which I want to recall the urgent need for legislation [[Applause from Senator Cirinna]] , the Church is stiffened on positions of mistrust and often closure. It is far, alas, from that spirit of understanding and compassion that is so proclaimed and preached. And unfortunately this counter-reformist clericalism has found support in the cynicism and opportunism of ultra-conservative political currents. Thus political positions were born that, in order to deny the need to overcome inequalities, discrimination on the basis of sexuality (because of this, inequality and discrimination), resorted to arguments that had nothing to do with the law. We are talking about adoptions, uteros for rent, all things that are not covered by the bill Cyrinna. That must be made clear. You see, I have full respect for those who think differently from mine, especially on matters that concern our deepest intimate. I can try to convince the other of the goodness of my beliefs, but I respect those who think otherwise. But I have no respect for those who mess with reality, for those who deliberately lie on important topics by playing on the skin of people, to create confusion in public opinion and prevent the approval of a law of civilization. [[Applause from Senators Bignami, Cirinna and D'Anna.]] The Cirinna bill is already a compromise. As far as I am concerned - I am speaking of course personally - I would be willing to recognise homosexual marriages, as well as the adoption of children, perhaps providing for a trial period to be submitted to the judgment of the court of minors, which I would also apply to heterosexual couples. It must be remembered that this is already the case in the most civilized countries in the world and that will mean something! Instead, with the bill Cirinna we recognize only the extension of the parenthood of a natural child to the partner or partner in a gay couple, as they have already sanctioned - it must be said and repeated - some sentences that cannot be ignored. To say that this law could open the doors to the so-called rented uterus is a vulgar falsehood. In Italy today it is forbidden! Period! We cannot decide what other countries have to legislate, apart from the fact that - a personal consideration of myself - the subject of surrogacy, because of its delicacy, would deserve a more serious and thoughtful reflection. No more hypocritical manipulations. Just play with the rights and desires of adults as opposed to the rights of children. But in this House - and I am addressing everyone - are we so sure that we have always legislated well with regard to minors? Have we always done this in their best interests? The truth is that the same people who today refuse to recognize civil unions and stepchild adoption, with the false motivation to protect minors, are the same ones who in the past, even recently, sacrificed minors to satisfy the demands of a part of the Church. That's the truth! [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Falanga.]] Divorces with long and endless years of suffering, often caused by the use of children as a means of judicial battle, are an example. The divorce law has only been modernised in the absence of minors. Where there are minors, instead, the law provides for an agony for minors, who are sacrificed in the name of the covenant between conservatives and clericalism. It is a monstrous hypocrisy, precisely because it concerns minors. It is a shame that all of us should feel the burden. At least on the rights of everyone, starting with those of children, let's be serious, honest. The recognition of civil unions is only a fact of civilizations that overcomes absurd discrimination in the sexual sphere, which no longer have any reason to be. Colleagues, there is a principle on which I believe we all agree: that all human beings - my personal conviction goes beyond because it extends to all living beings - have the right to life, freedom and happiness, as a famous Charter written 250 years ago, which unfortunately is not ours. Of course, it is very difficult to define happiness, but one thing is certain: one's happiness cannot override that of another and has to do with love, respect for others and the serenity that follows. We parents of heterosexual couples know well that the serenity of children is not dictated by having a mother and a father. Their serenity begins precisely from the feeling of love and understanding that one breathes in the family and, instead, it often happens that we parents, instead of helping them, contribute with our fears to instill taboos and insecurities that they would not have. It is not easy to be a parent, even less to be a good parent, but sexuality is certainly not the discriminating factor between a good parent and a bad parent. These are just lies dictated by fear of change. Meanwhile, the world changes anyway and will change again. Finally, I would like to make one final point. It is a pity that in this Parliament we have not faced a liberal left and right, as exists in all European countries, but a populist and clerical left and right, which has nothing to do with liberalism and democratic Catholicism. Colleagues, we approve the Cirinna law. Everyone, even the most convinced Catholics, by helping to approve it, can rightly go proud of it in his personal and political life. [[Applause from the AL-A and PD groups and the Senators Barani, Bignami, D'Anna, Falanga and Montevecchi]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u49	We welcome the students and professors who accompany them from the Technical Institute Luca Pacioli in Crema, in the province of Cremona, who are today visiting the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u50	Senator Torrisi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, out of all rhetoric, beyond what can be personal ideas, party or coalition, majority and opposition, the importance of the issue that is being addressed on this date and in this place, sacred to politics, is for us all an appointment with the legislative history of Italy. Today we are called upon to give voice to the rights of many citizens and also to respond to the calls of the European Parliament on this issue; not least, the European Parliament asked in paragraph 85 of the Report on the situation of fundamental rights in the European Union approved on 8 September 2015 in Strasbourg, 9 of 28 Member States to consider offering homosexual couples legal institutions such as cohabitation, registered de facto unions and marriage. Listening to this voice and to the calls of the European Union certainly means regulating for us the rights of many people and preventing our fellow citizens from being forced to go to other European countries to see their desire for a shared regulated life project accepted, but it does not mean denying the traditions of our country, whether willing or not, impregnated with Christian values. It is true that the legislator must be secular in his decisions, not regulating and guaranteeing these or those ideologies, but he must guarantee only the fundamental rights of every citizen, but in doing so he cannot forget to have a conscience. Many countries have addressed the issue of civil unions and have come to different solutions according to the nature of the country itself. The Italian Parliament for years, perhaps since 1986, with the first draft laws then presented by the Interparliamentary Women Communists and Arcigay, has tried to tackle and regulate this matter. Since then, passing through the nineties, legislative proposals have multiplied, moving on to projects such as PACS, DICO, DIDORE (rights and duties of reciprocity of the cohabitants, proposed by Renato Brunetta). After thirty years from the first proposal we finally arrive today, under the XVII legislature, with the text known as the bill proposed by the colleague of the Democratic Party Monica Cirinna. As we know, this bill provides for the establishment of civil unions for homosexual couples, with rights and duties identical to those provided for civil marriage, except adoptions but including the so-called stepchild adoption, i.e. the possibility of adopting the partner's child. From the examination of the text of the bill Cirinna we cannot fail to recognize important aspects, such as the principle of giving legal recognition also to couples of the same sex and to establish rights and duties among couples of fact heterosexual already existing but we must not fall into the error of approving a law text that ends up equalizing these civil unions with marriage. The Constitution, in Article 29, provides: The Republic recognizes the rights of the family as a natural society founded on marriage. Marriage is ordained on the moral and legal equality of spouses, with the limits laid down by law to guarantee family unity. Reading the acts of the constituent assembly, in particular the sessions of October 30, 1946 and April 17, 1947, we learn that the constituent Fathers did not pretend to give a definition of marriage, but simply had the clear awareness that marriage and family are realities that pre-exist to the state. The distinction must therefore be maintained between the protection of individual rights in de facto unions, such as "social training," which finds its reference to Article 2 of our Constitution, and the family as defined by Article 29 of the Constitution, or "natural society." On this point, however, before proceeding, it is necessary to recall the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 138 of 2010, which makes it clear that the two social structures do not overlap. It should therefore be pointed out that Parliament, within the framework of its legislative discretion, must respect the constitutional constraint, differentiating the two types of unions, the homosexual and the matrimonial. Therefore, identical rules on the forms and effects of homosexual cohabitations cannot be established. In other words, the term "civil unions" cannot be used if the contents of this new institution are the same as those of marriage. Therefore, as is clearly evident, the problem of the differentiation between marriage and civil union is not so much of a terminological order, but is exquisitely substantial; so let us be careful not to pass over the new institute that the bill Cirinna proposes as a marriage disguised by simple union. Yes to the recognition of certain rights, no to the overlapping of the two institutions. Yes to Article 4 of the Cirinna bill for the recognition of successor rights, yes to Article 3 for the recognition of rights and duties among the subjects of civil union, but with a wording that does not perfectly trace the text of the subjects united by marriage. It is therefore the recognition of the same rights in matters of right to food, wealth, housing, compensation, family business, protection and support administration. Yes, therefore, to all those rules of private law which guarantee the rights of the person, whether part of a family or of a civil union. No to Article 3, paragraphs 1, 2 and 4, which end up following civil union on the model of marriage. The same, ladies and gentlemen, must therefore be amended, taking great care not to fall into the trap of legitimizing equality between the two institutions (marriage and civil union), which is not and must not exist, while considering that both forms of union, with their peculiarities are and can be useful institutions for the functioning of the State. No to Article 5, which is the subject of the wider debate not only in this House, but above all in the country. This is the crux of the bill, on which we are all called to respond conscientiously and far-sightedly. Article 5, through an amendment to Article 44 (b) of Law No 184 of 4 May 1983, intervenes in the matter of adoption in particular cases. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about the so-called stepchild adoption, importing from England an institution already regulated there. The proposed law allows the person who is a party to a civil union to apply for adoption of the partner's minor, including adoptive, child. But not only that. In my opinion, this forecast opens the way, ladies and gentlemen, to practices that cannot be tolerated by any conscience: the uterus for rent. The Cirinna bill focuses heavily on the rights of homosexual couples and their desire to have children, but are children's rights guaranteed? Let's take a step back, to try to evaluate things from a different perspective, that of the child. As Cardinal Bagnasco said: The true good of children must prevail over every other, for they are the weakest to be exposed: they are never a right, for they are not things to be produced; they are entitled to every priority and respect, security and stability. If we proceed to approve this article, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, homosexual couples will soon be considered as real families and will be able to adopt children that are not their own, as is already the case in France or Spain. It certainly cannot be tolerated that a couple, regardless of marriage or civil union, may decide to rent a uterus and give birth to a child who would never know who the father or mother is. It would end up satisfying the desire of adults, suppressing children's rights. It is undeniable that a child has the right to a mother and a father in their primordial identity. We can therefore hypothesize, since the bill Cirinna equates all the living together in fact (both heterosexual and homosexual) that, just approved in its entirety, a couple of cohabiting women can ask the judge to be authorized to access artificial fertilization. One of the two cohabitants will be fertilized with donor semen (eterolic fertilization, now allowed after the Constitutional Court ruling). Or a couple of cohabiting men come to the judge and ask to be able to access the artificial fertilization for which one of the two cohabitants will make available the seed, while the egg will be supplied by a donor (eterolic fertilization) who will declare to be fertilized free of charge. If a couple of women had access to assisted fertilization, why couldn't a couple of men do so, since the Cirinna bill equates all living together in fact? Can one really think that in the end creative jurisprudence will not give the green light to all this? On the point relating to stepchild adoption the bill Cyrinna is not even amendable and must be rejected. On the other hand, it would be desirable to present a draft law which more specifically regulates adoptions in order to overcome an old and inadequate law. Only in this way will we guarantee the right of a child to have a family before the right of a homosexual couple to have a child. President, I shall conclude by saying that so far we have expressed the sharing of regularizing de facto unions with the institute of civil unions, regardless of the sexual nature of coexistence itself, but at the same time we clearly reaffirm, as a group of People's Area, our disagreement, therefore our clear no, with the adoptions of which the bill Cyrinna speaks expressly through the so-called stepchild adoption. In fact, the purpose of the bill is to consciously lay the premises in the case law to further rights so far linked specifically to the matrimonial institution, particularly to the right of adoption. In conclusion, as far as I have said so far, we clearly express our yes to the regulation of civil unions, but our no to adoptions by members of the same unions. No to stepchild adoption, which risks legitimizing not only the adoption of the partner's son, but - worse - also the use of procreative practices in contrast to our laws. This is the position of the People's Area Group, having clear ethical, legal and civilization principles expressed in this intervention. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senator Liuzzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u52	Senator Serafini is enlisted to speak. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u53	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lo Giudice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in 1986 the major trial of the Mafia began in Palermo, Ali Agca was condemned for the attack on John Paul II, Enzo Tortora was acquitted with a full formula and the Chernobyl nuclear reactor exploded in the Soviet Union. In the Senate, a Neapolitan MP, Ersilia Salvato, deposited the first draft law on living together in fact. It's been exactly 30 years since then. In every legislature, legislative proposals have been filed on de facto couples, civil unions, PACS, DICO, egalitarian marriages, but never, before today, had a House of Parliament considered it important to discuss them. Another generation of Italian lesbians and gays, yet another, has aged and left without the State recognizing the dignity of their love. In these thirty years, since Denmark broke the ice, in 1989, issuing the world's first law on civil unions, identical to what we are discussing today, 14 European countries have extended civil marriage to same-sex couples, as did the United States of America, the great Catholic countries of South America, Canada, South Africa, New Zealand and others. Germany, together with some Eastern European countries, has adopted the old civil union institute, and today only Bulgaria, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania and Slovakia keep Italy company in the sad circle of EU countries where the rights of same-sex couples are totally ignored by legislation. The Italian Parliament comes today, thirty years late, to this appointment with history, perhaps pressed more than by the moral urgency by two judgments of the Constitutional Court. In its judgment n. 138 of 2010 the Consulta defined homosexual union as the stable coexistence between two persons of the same sex whose fundamental right is to live freely a condition of couple - I repeat a condition of couple - obtaining legal recognition with the related rights and duties. The Court added that she herself would ensure, through reasonable control, the need for a homogeneous treatment between the condition of the married couple and the same-sex couple. The concepts of family and marriage - we read in the judgment - cannot be considered crystallized with reference to the time when the Constitution came into force, because they are endowed with the ductility proper to constitutional principles and, therefore, must be interpreted taking into account not only the transformations of the order, but also the evolution of society and customs. Aldo Moro's words at the constituent assembly seem to echo here, when he left to the acts that, while very dear to the Christian Democrats, the concept of the sacramental bond in the family, this does not prevent him from portraying a family still constituted as a society that, having certain characteristics of stability and functionality, can fit into social life. In short, the paradox with which today Article 29 of the Constitution, intended to defend the family, families as they are, by ideological interventions of the State, is wielded today as a clava to deny autonomy and social value to a part of the Italian families. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SEL groups.]] It is in the wake of this natural evolution of the law that came to the judgment of the Court of Cassation No 4184 of 2012, which defines the members of the homosexual couple who have the right to family life: also in this case no creative reading, but the necessary transposition of Community jurisprudence and the European Court of Human Rights, which today considers, in an incontrovertible way, that the right to family life enshrined in Article 8 of the European Convention of Human Rights should be applied to same-sex couples. It was precisely the denial of the right to family life that cost Italy last July that the European Court of Human Rights condemned it. It would be completely inconsistent, as someone asks, to remove from the text the only reference to the concept of "family life." [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SEL groups.]] Finally, judgment No 170 of 2014 asked Parliament to fill this legal vacuum, which corresponds to a violation of fundamental rights, "with the utmost urgency." It has been said that this law represents the extension of marriage to same-sex couples. Unfortunately, that is not the case, even though we have tabled amendments with other colleagues in this respect. I had already deposited on the first day of this legislature a bill for overcoming discrimination in access to marriage that today represents the peculiarity of Italy compared to the majority of European countries. But this Parliament has chosen another path, the only other way to respond to the repeated requests of the Council without incurring discriminatory rules destined to fall under the blows of the European Courts: a separate institution which, however, recognizes equal rights. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Cristofaro]] The German law on civil unions, which we are saying today to inspire, has been sanctioned by the European Court of Justice every time a difference of treatment has been challenged in relation to marriage. This is what happened - for example - in 2008, when Germany was forced by the European Court of Justice to grant civilly united couples a survivor's pension at first denied, in the name of the principle of non-discrimination of citizens on the basis of their sexual orientation. Any difference in treatment in terms of rights would arise as an already dead provision, because it would be judged by the same Court of Justice which has already expressed itself on German law. On Article 5, which extends to the parties of civil unions the possibility of adoption of the partner's child already provided for spouses, I will say only two things. The first is about what's not there, the second is what's there. What is not there is a modification of Law No. 40 of 2004 that makes possible in Italy what is now forbidden: access to gestation for others and access to heterologous fertilization for single women or couples of women. The issue of surrogate motherhood, in particular, is a complex and very delicate subject, which will deserve a serious and in-depth debate, but outside the exploitation of these months. It is a theme that divides, of course: it divides the European States that deal with it differently, who forbids (such as Italy), who regulates, thus making it possible (such as Great Britain, Belgium, the Netherlands, Greece), who ignores. It has divided the European Parliament on several occasions. It divides the international and the Italian feminist movement, which has certainly split not on the negative (unanimous) judgment on the situations of exploitation and illegality in poor countries, but on how much in this negative judgment also the situations based on freedom and the protection of the rights of all the parties involved should be involved. It is a subject - it should be remembered - which concerns 95 percent heterosexual couples and affects less than 20 percent of the children of homosexual people, whose large part consists of children of couples of women - children who have disappeared from our debate - and a part of which has been born from previous heterosexual relationships. Those who evoke in this context the horrible situation of exploitation of women in poor countries, driven by poverty, often unaware, in the hands of the racket or their own husbands, place the emphasis on a real phenomenon, on which international public opinion should raise the level of attention. But he lies knowing that he lies when he binds this phenomenon to gay couples who are excluded from the laws of those same states from accessing these practices in those places; States that restrict heterosexual couples access to these sad phenomena of exploitation. No pair of men can access surrogacy in India or Thailand or Nepal, but not even in Russia or Ukraine, as these countries only admit it for couples of men and women. Italian gay couples can only enter gestation for others in California or Canada, where there are strict protocols to protect women's freedom and the absence of an economic need. These are women who activate with those children lasting ties, who will have a role in their lives, allowing transparency of origins, including genetics, in a way that is more than permitted today in Italy by the many times cited law n. 40. The gestation for others is possible in California - for example - because so established the Supreme Court of that State, through judges extremely attentive to the inequitable protection of women's rights. If this House has any doubt that the rights of American or Canadian women are being violated in the United States or Canada, we are promoting deepening, activating the political and diplomatic channels we have with our allies to verify which protocols provide for the right of those countries to protect women's freedom. But let us avoid the criminalization of conduct that there, in countries of solid legal civilization and of high attention to the civil rights of all, are perfectly regulated and socially accepted. Rather, we think about opening up to adoptions of children who are also abandoned to same-sex couples, as is the case in most of Europe. This is the only legislative act that would have the effect of reducing the use of surrogacy by same-sex couples. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buccarella]] However, it is worth repeating that the law we are discussing does not alter a comma of the prohibitions provided for in Law No 40. But I come to the second point, which is the one straight. In 2014 Italy definitively closed the distinction between natural children and legitimate children. Until then there had remained a distinction, which today appears barbaric, between children born within marriage, which were granted greater rights than children born outside marriage, considered illegitimate. Also in that case, the logic of that distinction was based on a negative ethical judgment of the legislator, which aimed to discourage extramarital sex, intervening on children's rights and stigmatizing them socially as unequal, with poor results, however, if today one in four children - in some parts of Italy one in three - is born outside marriage. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] Today it is common feeling of politics, like the Courts that any assessment of the choices of adults and how a child has come to the world cannot overpower that child's right to be legally recognized as having links with his parents in fact. The same law n. 40, launched by the center-right majority in 2004, also forbidding heterosexual couples the possibility of heterologous fertilization on the national territory (which was subsequently deleted by the Consulta), addressed in the best way the issue of children born abroad by that practice prohibited in Italy. Article 9, in fact, provided for and provides that "Where medically assisted procreation techniques of the heterologous type are used (...) the spouse or cohabitant whose consent is derived from concluding acts cannot exercise the action of renown of paternity (...)." I repeat: "He cannot exercise the action of renown of paternity." It is basically in its simplicity, consistent with the New York Convention on the Rights of the Child and with those criteria of humanity which must always guide the legislator: a principle which seemed obvious and unanimous about children of heterosexual couples and which, instead, is overturned in its opposite now that we are talking about children of same-sex couples. To these children, because not of their origin, but of the type of family in which they are born and grow up, they want to place limitations of every kind, denying the possibility of a full, stable and not precarious relationship with their parents or putting under special control those families for two, three or many years, so that they have the time to prove to the State that they are good parents through special ways compared to those of heterosexual families: longer and complicated paths and restrictions compared to a jurisprudence that is being affirmed in the country. Coparental adoption (what we call stepchild adoption) has been foreseen in our order for more than thirty years for heterosexual couples and for a couple of years it has been affirmed in jurisprudence an address that already admits it also for same-sex couples, with the same prerequisites of careful verification of the superior interest of the child required for heterosexual couples. Any difference in treatment introduced by this measure would not only be clearly unconstitutional - it would result in an odious discrimination against children in relation to the sexual orientation of adults - but would end when our country is preparing to recognize some rights to adults, in order to remove them precisely from children. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a historic passage to our country. This provision does not recognize and will not recognize equality for homosexual couples, as is the case in most of the rest of the Western world. Let us at least make sure that he recognizes the full dignity of these families and their children. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Misto-SEL groups and Senator Bignami. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u55	Senator Augello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech by making it clear that, despite the fact that the climate in the country has become rather dark on the issue of civil unions, I am well aware of Mr Cirinna's good intention in preparing this draft law. In the same way, however, I am well aware of the fact that Italy is facing a deficit of delay and backwardness in dealing with this matter. In addition, I would like to make it clear that, from my point of view, the issue we are dealing with cannot be framed by crowded stands of typhoseries based on issues that have to do not with the Constitution, but with the very respectable conviction of a religious creed. I say this because what, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has not convinced me of this bill since its presentation has to do with lay reasons of law and constitutional law and not with any other kind of suggestion. And we must secularly address this matter. However, care must be taken to ensure that not only persons who, for reasons of trust or religion, consider any kind of regulation or union between homosexuals to be improbable do not come together in the fanatics on the stands. There is another curve of these typho-series, which is currently deployed in the country, which is just as dangerous for the quality of our debate. It is a fanship that, in essence, has greatly influenced the first text of the bill that betrays, in reality, all the weakness of a system that, although filed and amended, was and remains constitutionally weak. Let us now come to the facts we are discussing. When the bill Cirinna is presented, we have before us a legislative product that basically uses an artifice: this has been discussed and there is evidence of it and there is even the "smoking gun," as they say in journalistic terms. The trick that is being used is not to deal with the urgency and the need to give a certain and limited package of rights to homosexual couples with a first reform. On the other hand, another type of facility is proposed, which has a very clear structure: it is based on the repositioning of all the articles of the Civil Code that refer to marriage, using the Trojan horse of saying that it is an operation that takes place in the shadow of Article 2 of the Constitution and not of Article 29. It is clear that this departure limit still weighs heavily on the debate we are holding in this House and on the credibility of the whole operation. Meanwhile, we remove from the field, also in terms of common references and general culture, the idea that the affair of marriage is born as a religious institution. Marriage is born from Roman law - it is assumed and done precisely by Jewish-Christian culture later - in a society that had no kind of prejudice against homosexuality. If my colleague Cirinna wants it, one day we will take a walk together at Pincio where I will show her the obelisk dedicated by Emperor Hadrian to his lover Antino, who was even divinized and to him was dedicated, at the expense of the treasury, the construction of a city on the banks of the Nile, in whose waters Antino had drowned. However, Mr Cirinna, Emperor Hadrian never dreamed of introducing the marriage of homosexuals into Roman law, and not because that culture considered the union between homosexuals negatively, but because marriage was born and then developed in Western civilization in the idea that it should be protected, through family favor and other elements, a basic principle that reproduces and projects to infinity the culture and history of society that expresses that family. This is basically the crux of the question: marriage is closely linked to the principle of procreation between different sexes, otherwise this problem would have been addressed and solved before. To the truth there is some precedent, in the sense that at least two Roman emperors married a man, but - ahinoi - one was Nero and the other was Eliogabalo, both condemned to damnatio memoriae and, therefore, maybe it is also probable that those marriages never happened, and however they did not spread effects on the hereditary axes. Our Constitution is very clear from this point of view. We have an Article 29 and the underlying legislative system that exclude the use of the same kind of constitutional reference and the same identical system of rights for a homosexual union or for a heterosexual union and marriage. Yet, the bill Cyrinna said so at first. And not only did he say this, but in some way betrayed his vocation to deceive the Constitution with an objective element, which is - precisely - the smoking gun: civil unions were so much a photocopy of marriage that it was not believed could be used as an institute indifferently accessible to homosexuals and heterosexuals. And for what reason the answer is simple, that is because heterosexuals already had marriage: that was the reasoning. From here comes the need to have two titles of the law: a first who created a marriage in fact photocopy; a second, however, quite well written, regulating the cohabitations. On this we have measured ourselves in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and I believe that they are still in the Commission's proceedings - as you know, there are no synographical reports, but a summary of the speeches - speeches by esteemed and prepared colleagues on constitutional matters, which are in any case in favour of the draft law Cirinna. They, being unable to deny this obvious vice of origin of the bill, have become enraged to say that the Constitution must to some extent adapt to the times and, consequently, there was this weakness, this somewhat Italian form of representing the issue, but basically this represented not a real violation, but an interpretation of the times in which we live. Therefore, in essence, no credible argument could deny the evidence: it was, that is, making a photocopy marriage. Following all the debate that has developed, not so much in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs where the matter was settled in a few hours, but in the Committee on Justice, there were also some filings. But if we speak seriously with any constitutionalist, they cannot deny that the fundamental system has remained the same as the initial proposition. What this has to do with the rights of homosexuals, I honestly find it hard to understand, in the sense that our system of rights must be governed by the Constitutional Charter. We cannot have a system of rights which Parliament freely interprets by circumventing one constitutional rule and by improperly using another. This is incorrect not only on a constitutional and formal level, but also on a political and cultural level, because nothing prevented us, since we are doing a constitutional reform, from assuming the responsibility of saying that Article 29 was changed. If anyone in this House is convinced that this kind of necessity exists, he takes a respectable position, which must certainly be submitted to a popular judgment in the end. However, if that is the purpose, that is, if someone in this House - not me - thinks that basically a homosexual union and a heterosexual union simply give rise to two types of families with equal rights, it has nothing to do but resort to a possible instrument, recognised to Parliament, which is the amendment of Article 29 of the Constitution. And that would have been better, since the debate would have been clearer and more secular, because to some extent a whole series of misunderstandings would have been removed and the issue would have been dealt with at its root, because this is what we want to get to. Secondly, it would have been easier to argue, for both sides, a constitutional point of view and there would have been a clear debate in the eyes of the public. This has not been the case and - in my opinion - this will be a choice that we will pay for, because in the end this will lead to great confusion, and in any case it also puts us in a position to have a more opaque debate. I am not speaking here, because others will do so, on the subject of surrogacy and the womb for rent, because it seems to me that we are discussing the consequences of a wrong plant at the beginning and not that of the premises and, therefore, we cannot start there. We have to start with a basically wrong idea that has been changed, but remained on a wrong plant. That's the point that I'm secularly raising. It is above all for this reason, and for many others that my Group's colleagues will be speaking after me, that we can only have a negative judgment, even from the point of view of homosexual couples, on a wrong approach, on a flag law, on a way that, of course, was not in the intentions of my colleague Cirinna, who is a very good person, certainly ends up taking the whole issue on an axis that has no concrete and possible representation with respect to our fundamental Charter. For these reasons I shall vote against this measure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are called today, in the Senate Chamber, to discuss and discuss the draft law No 2081 on the regulation of civil unions between persons of the same sex and the discipline of cohabitations, presented by Senator Monica Cirinna. In a modern country like ours, it is unacceptable that civil unions are not yet regulated. In conservative countries, such as Great Britain and Germany, this issue has been addressed with courage and seriousness, without forgetting the religious values on which these two nations are based. We do not want to forget the main aspect of Article 29 (1) of the Constitution, which reads: "The Republic recognizes the rights of the family as a natural society founded on marriage." The traditional family is the pillar of our values and no law can replace this conception. I cannot fail to note the innumerable changes affecting our society and the evidence that the world is constantly evolving. Therefore, it is right and proper for politics to evolve with it and to adopt a law on civil unions, but this must not in any way trample on the rights of the family and, above all, on the rights of children. What I will say may appear in the eyes of some of the senators present in this Chamber as a provocation: my words will seem harsh and may cause a stir among some of you. I cannot, however, avoid this task, because at this moment I feel more than ever the obligation to assume this responsibility, as a humble believer as I am. My considerations are the result of personal reflections, and not only as a man of science, having exercised the profession of doctor, specialized in gynecology and obstetrics, but also and above all as a man of Christian faith. I would like to read in this House some quotes from the Holy Scriptures. I don't want to get lost in conjecture and analysis, I don't want to philosophize, I don't want to explain, but I just want to remember God's word about the incompatibility of the family, generated by a man and a woman, with homosexuality: "The woman will not dress as a man, and the man will not dress as a woman, for the Lord your God hates anyone who does such things." And again: "You will not lie with a man as you do with a woman: it is abominable. Do not become unclean with any such practices, for with all these things the nations have become unclean [[Comments of Senator Nugnes]] that I am about to cast out in front of you. Anyone who does any of these abominations, any person who commits them, will be eliminated by his people. This passage is extracted from Leviticus, the third book of the Hebrew Torah and the Christian Bible, composed of 27 chapters, written in Hebrew, containing almost exclusively religious and social laws, which Moses gave to the Jews during their stay in the wilderness of Sinai, about one thousand and two hundred years before Christ. [[Senator Taverna's comments.]] More important is to focus attention on all those significant quotations of Leviticus, starting from the first page of the Bible, in which it is written: male and female created them. He created them to be a single flesh and to procreate. Thus extends the divine creation, which has in man its crown. Even the New Testament does not change its direction: in fact, a particularly explicit passage is extracted from the first letter to the Corinthians: Do not be deceived: neither fornicators (...) nor adulterers, nor effeminates, nor homosexuals, nor thieves [[Comments of Senator Bottici),]] neither the greedy, nor the drunkards, nor the revilers, nor the robbers will inherit the kingdom of God. Some thesis attempts to demonstrate the reversal of tendency and attitude on homosexuality between the Old and New Testaments, but probably the most beautiful and overwhelming truth, which erases any other thesis, is what Matthew writes: A believer must never forget that God does not change. What could be more true than that? I don't think we need to comment on these quotes. I just want to point out that, once again, we are faced with the choice between honoring our Christian roots, ours and the whole of Europe, or forgetting them, in favour of extreme liberalisations that risk undermining the foundations of the institution of the family, without which we would be nothing. The natural nucleus within which our civilization has developed over the centuries has always been composed of a man and a woman, who have built a union on the basis of which they have brought forth and raised their children. The family, communion of love and life, founded on the covenant of love of marriage, represents a social resource to which de facto unions cannot be equated. As a gynecologist I can say that the anatomical and physiological aspect of man is inclined and directed towards the woman and the woman complements each other in man. I would like to point out that even in the technique of artificial fertilization, gametes that are implanted in the uterus must belong to both sexes, otherwise we would not get any results. There is no homosexual procreation in nature, it is not expected. In this regard, I would like to open a brief parenthesis on the concept of conception: what is conception? From the physiological point of view, it is the achievement of sperm in the female egg and the subsequent fertilization. From an ethical and spiritual point of view, conception is the highest and most sublime expression of man and woman: giving life. This act connects the two protagonists as creators, capable of manifesting God on earth. Conception represents, then, that divine act that encloses the encounter of love between man and woman, a process that symbolizes the expression of life that perpetuates itself over the centuries and guarantees human offspring. Related to the theme of the natural children born from conception is the theme of the adoptive children, the stepchild adoption (English expression that is nothing but the adoption of the stepson), that is the recognition, by one of the two spouses, of the children of the other spouse. In other words, if either or both people who join civilly already have children, born from previous unions, the law gives the possibility to include them in the new family unit. This is to all intents and purposes an adoption of the partner's children, which allows the other spouse to automatically become a parent. In essence, the stepson is inserted into the new assembly and one of the two parents has the possibility to recognize him before the law. This is a critical point of the Cirinna bill, which does not prevent the risk of a race to the practice of surrogate motherhood, prohibited in Italy by law n. 40 of 2004, although it is not a norm that legitimizes the uterus for rent. We need to make it clear. We need to think before making hasty decisions on the subject of adoptions. My intervention aims simply to support the common sense of a large part of our people who - for example - met in hundreds of thousands of people last June 20 in St. John's Square to defend the family from recent attempts to distort its form and meaning. Intense was the participation in the appointment on Saturday 30 January 2016 at the Circus Maximus on the occasion of the Family day. In the Capital came about 700,000 protesters from all over Italy to defend the family, to say no to the bill Cirinna and to all the consequences that, of course, would result, such as the commodification of children and the degradation of the figure of the woman reduced to a mere uterus to rent. In my opinion, it is also dangerous to use the term "traditional family" because the family is family! Comparing the universal concept of family with civil union would result in the decay of the family model, based on marriage as an indissoluble covenant between people of different sex. Although I have expressed my point of view as a Christian man, I recognize the need to maintain a direct line of confrontation between believers and non-believers, also and above all on the most ethically discussed subjects. This is because our society has developed in dialogue and mutual respect for all the opinions expressed from time to time. I am convinced that the diversity of views must be welcomed as a positive element in reaching decisions that are shared and respected by all. However, what we are witnessing in recent years is an attempt to impose a new vision of humanity, parenthood and marriage. The basic idea leads to a drift in which one's sexuality can be decided at will, even without any modification of natural physicality (see the case of Thomas Beatie, born a woman, become a man of adult age while preserving the female reproductive apparatus and remained pregnant for three times, because the companion could not have children), and where a father and a mother become parent 1 and parent 2 and the right of the child to grow up in a family composed of a man and a woman is subordinate to the desire of adults to undertake adventures that nature has not foreseen for them and that cannot be attributed by law by man. Enoch, a biblical character, has left us his prediction that, at the rise of the age of Aquarius, when from the scientific consciousness we will move to a state of consciousness based on the search for wisdom, will end the long era of Pisces that is marking us in this historical period characterized by fanaticism, conformism, ignorance, fear and selfishness. Entering into the substance of the bill in question, it provides for the extension of certain family rights to civil unions, such as the institution of the survivor's pension, originally intended as a support to the weaker part of the family, that is, the woman who cared for her children. TAVERNA (M5S). What are you talking about? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, let me talk to you. TAVERNA (M5S). President, do you realize? It's really annoying. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This is a wide-ranging debate. Everyone has a right. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). I would like to point out that this measure, together with other measures provided for in the measure (e.g. deductions for dependent family members), entails a cost for public finances which has been greatly underestimated, including by the technicians of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I am referring to estimates that take as the basis of calculation a forecast horizon of only ten years and a audience of recipients much smaller than what emerges from the ISTAT data, which already in 2011 estimated in more than one million declared homosexuals. It is clear, therefore, that, at a time of cuts in available resources and difficult decisions on the priorities to be allocated to them, an extension of rights involving significant economic commitments for public finances should be assessed with greater caution and careful analysis, certainly not with a tweet from the Ministry of Economy. The consideration that our model of social welfare is already supported with considerable difficulty should have led to greater caution in the approach to an extension of rights, which I do not want to deny with these considerations regardless. Today, the concept of "political" is easily confused with "party" or "parliamentaryism." Our thought and our philosophical-political roots come from ecclesiastical fathers like St. Augustine, from canonists like Gregory VII, from school doctors like St. Thomas and from the ecclesiastical magisterium of Pius XII. All this is contaminated by the thought of the "politically correct" of the French Revolution, Macchiavelli, Lutheranism, Renaissance and Humanism. We must not forget that today comes from yesterday and tomorrow is the fruit of the past, so St. Pius X spoke in 1910. So let us not forget our origins, our true human and spiritual nature, because today's mistakes are the catastrophe of tomorrow of our actions and thoughts. Madam President, then we certainly have a duty and an obligation to defend diversity from abuse and injustice, and we must do so clearly and clearly, because we are proud of the democracy we have created in this country. But do we really have to approve a law that, in essence, equals homosexual unions to marriage that, I remember, is born as a sacrament and only after becomes a civil union and not only before God? Let me say that we cannot deny the fundamental principles of our society, to the point of concealing normality: should we be ashamed of this normality? [[Senator Taverna's comments.]] On the contrary, I want to say with force that, while respecting everyone, I want to feel free to be normal, that normality that remains the only universal law. The family is not only a form of aggregation built in the millennia of history; for Christians it is founded on religious marriage, on the oath of fidelity before God, whose sacredness of the act enshrines its immutability of its composition and the Christian values on which it is founded. God wanted the family to be made up of father, mother and children. [[Comments of Senator Nugnes.]] There is no husband without a wife, there is no wife without a husband, and above all there is no life without both sexes. [[Senator Cardinal's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u58	Colleagues, have Senator Scilipoti Isgrò finish his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u59	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Homosexuality doesn't bring life. A surrogate mother is not a mother. [[Comments from Senator Taverna. Call the president back.]] But how can the newborn child be taken away from a mother? CIOFFI (M5S). Give us Gasparri back! [[Laughter from the M5S Group.]] ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Even dogs and cats don't take puppies before the sixty days of life, as Senator Cirinna knows. After nine months of gestation, how can this abomination be allowed? Where are the rights of the child, if the newborn is given to a couple who has not even participated directly in the physical act of conception? It recently relied on January 25, the day of the conversion of Saint Paul, an episode in the history of the Catholic religion so famous that it became proverbial. [[Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u60	Let the surgery end without commenting, as everyone else did.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u61	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). In fact, even in our days the expression "floored on the road to Damascus" has remained in use. He persecuted Christ's followers assiduously and his journey to Damascus was precisely to expose and imprison the followers of the new faith. Just as he was on his way to this city he was wrapped in a light and heard a voice saying to him: Saulus, Saul, for persecuting me! The voice was that of Jesus. Paul lay on the ground and when he rose up and opened his eyes he realized that he had become blind. This is an allegory of the bill proposed by Senator Cirinna, who perhaps "followed on the road to Damascus" can reflect on how this bill is a bad approach to solving the problem of civil unions and the protection of homosexual couples. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, Mr President, one minute and I will finish. There is too much desire to address such a delicate speech, so secular in a country with a Catholic majority, that there is a risk of creating a situation of tension between different religious and non-religious communities. In conclusion, my vote on the Civil Unions Bill will be against. As the Forza Italia Group, we are in favour of recognising the rights of homosexual couples, but we do not want them to be treated as marriage and we cannot accept them being put on the same legal footing. The same applies to the theme of the separations of homosexual couples and the adoption of children. I remember the words of Saint Paul in Timothy: faith must always be witnessed in every circumstance. Christians must be united in the defense of the family, especially now, regardless of their party membership. [[Applause from Senator Amidei.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u62	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mancuso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u63	Madam President, my first impression is that the subject we are dealing with has over-absorbed the interest of the public and has become central to the political debate, at a time when we probably should have centralized other issues. Although I understand and do not want to diminish the importance of the measure that we are dealing with, I believe that whatever its fate and in any case it is hesitated, this measure is not intended to create lacerations in our social fabric: it has happened before in other European nations and similar regulations are in force in Germany, France and Spain, Nations that have the same anthropological origins as we do, and I understand that there have not been any social devastations in those countries. We are certainly dealing with a delicate subject, inevitably divisive and on which each of us has his own opinion, but which, although accompanied by preconceptions or positions of intolerance, I do not think it can create disruptions within our structure or our social architecture. Certainly the polarization of the confrontation, the ideological approach, the intransigent spirit of those who are not inclined to debate do not help dialogue, do not help the parties to meet and find the possibility of an agreement that, in my opinion, could still be reached. We must therefore, in my opinion, give up provocations and retro-guard positions and work towards a confrontation that starts from the points of sharing. If this is not possible, I will ask my Parent Company and entrust to its reasonableness the possibility of being able to unravel from any indications of party or group, in order to respond, on such a delicate and disruptive subject, mainly to my conscience. On the subject I believe that each of us has ideas that have been formed on the basis of a path of life, a path that is absolutely personal from the human, social and political point of view and that is not always coinciding with the logics of politics. Let us start by saying that there can be no reason for political opportunity that can give or take away to every citizen the fundamental rights provided for in our Constitution. What are they? If we want to start with the Constitution, without affecting its principles, we must make it clear that marriage is the one regulated by Article 29 (expected between a man and a woman), but, at the same time, we cannot deny our citizens rights that are now universal and that they sanction the equality of everyone with respect to the State of which they belong, especially if, as in the case of Italy, it is a Western, modern and European State. We have an obligation to repair an injustice, that is, to allow everyone and everyone to share the same rights and duties, regardless of their sexual orientation. Therefore, I believe it is necessary that the law clearly provides, without automatic references to the civil code, that the marriage institution and that of the unions are two things distinct and separated from the regulatory point of view. [[Brusio]] That being the case, if Mr Scilipoti Isgrò allows me to continue...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u64	I have protected your right to speak, respect the right of Senator Mancuso.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u65	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Having made these premises, before continuing, I want to point out that I am opposed to the adoptions for homosexuals who have decided to live together and who have the right to give vent to mutual affectivity, fortunately not contemplated in this bill, and I cannot be fascinated by the arguments put on the field by those who think differently from me, namely that we must adapt to a story that changes, to the change of customs, to a modernity that looms and that forces us to overcome certain fences. No one wants to stop two men or two women from putting up a family, they are free to do so and ask for civil protection. Even a single person has his family status; but I have serious doubts that it is possible to add a child to the newly born family to represent a right. This wish, albeit understandable, can be invoked as a legislative concession, on the basis of reasons that can be more or less shared, but never as a right. The rights we need to talk about here are, first of all, those of minors, those of children. In this regard, I want to speak softly but clearly, without raising flags, without ostentatiousness but with reasoned and intimate conviction and with great respect for all those who, especially within my Group, think differently, who have reflected so much on the subject of stepchild adoption and, on this subject, I certainly find myself on different positions than those that have been represented by many members of my party. In particular, I believe that this rule, as it is written and limited to natural parents, can represent legal protection for those children who are biologically linked to one of the parents but affectively to both. This is the case, just to understand us, of a father or a mother who in the previous period had a son; after which the spouse died and the father or mother finds themselves with a son and with new sexual orientations, so they decide to live together with a new partner of the same sex. At this point I believe that, in addition to being a right of the child to be protected within the new family that has come to form, it is a duty of the new spouse to accept in dowry the son of the partner or partner, if he wants to formalize the union before the civil state officer. See that there are many of these cases around, they are already part of the reality but these children, unlike others, do not have legal protection. They are children who already exist, who live within same-parent families and grow up cared for by two men or two women; well these children do not have the certainty, should the natural parent fail, that they can continue to live with the other parent, just as they do not have the right, in case of separation, to continue to be cared for by the partner or partner of the biological parent or that to the continuity of affection with the separate partner, perhaps after this has helped to raise them and form them for ten or twenty years. Here we are talking about the rights of children, who cannot be held responsible for the mode of procreation; they are children who are there and we have a duty to protect them. Nor do I am convinced by the reason that the introduction of this rule would favour the despicable practice of the uterus in lease. I, too, find this hateful practice of commissioned children and women bought abominable, but I find these arguments only to confuse things, to feed short circuits between legal guarantees for children and gestations on commission. We are legislators, if Article 40 is not enough, let us use it to find different solutions to avoid this abomination. There are European and universal regulations; I have seen that amendments have also been tabled in this regard which provide for a tightening of penalties for those who are guilty of these crimes or the prohibition of adoption if it is not shown that the child is the result of natural procreation. How long will we have to endure, as we have done so far, the shameful hypocrisy of heterosexual couples, clearly rich, who are the majority of surrogate maternity commissions and who are regularly recognized as stepchild adoption by the Italian judiciary, with well-established favourable jurisprudence? In the face of these immoral actions so far we have kept all eyes closed. I therefore believe, Madam President, that the barriers we must overcome are not those of history, progress or modernity, but those of rights and inequalities. [[Applause from Senator Orellana. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u66	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u69	AMATI (PD). Madam President, a great deal has been said about children these days, for better or for worse. I would now like to draw attention to one issue. Europol's High Officer Brian Donald said that some 10,000 unaccompanied foreign minors arrived in Europe in 2015 were expected to disappear, of which 5000 would disappear in Italy. Particularly vulnerable minors, of whom we no longer know anything, who may have gathered with their families, but who may also have fallen victim to transnational organised crime networks, risking the most vile forms of sexual exploitation, of work, as well as forced begging and withdrawal of organs. Donald referred to a genuine pan-European criminal infrastructure operating along the Balkan route, which developed during the so-called migrant crisis. More than a year ago, on 28 October 2014, I put a question to the Ministers for the Interior and Labour and Social Policy, signed by more than twenty colleagues (it was Act 3-01350, which had to be answered in the Commission). The question arose from the data of the report published by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, according to which, as of September 30, 2014, 12,164 unaccompanied foreign minors arrived in Italy and of these more than a quarter was unavailable. I also remember that more than two years ago we asked questions and made commitments on an incident in Crotone, when, within two days, 70 minors had absolutely disappeared and were considered, again, to be in bad hands. Therefore, my request is that this House, in addition to talking about the rights of children, should be able to have answers on the rights of children who have arrived here but no longer know where they are. Please at least answer this question and do something to follow.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u70	Senator Amati, there are several representatives of the Government present in the Chamber who can take note and request the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-570.ana.u71	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.04 a.m.
