ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 14 January.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u4	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u8	I inform you that, as already communicated to the parliamentary groups in the short way, at tomorrow's Question Time session at 4 p.m., the Minister of Economic Development will answer questions on the following topics: perspectives of the Italian industry, with particular reference to the chemical sector; initiatives for consumers and companies in the energy sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u9	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft Constitutional Law No 1429-D, already approved in first resolution by the Senate, first amended by the Chamber of Deputies, again amended in first resolution by the Senate and approved without modifications in first resolution by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u10	Madam President, I would like to thank my colleagues for their attention. I, like all my colleagues, am here to try to bear witness to this reform of the Constitution. It is an important testimony that we tried yesterday to give in a disconcerting loneliness in this House. However, this is of great importance, especially in view of a referendum. Despite the importance that this debate should begin to have, yesterday in Commission 1a everyone was not allowed to make their statements. 15 senators couldn't do their surgery. Last time it was said that there were too many amendments and they could not be discussed. The amendments were withdrawn, but there were still too many. Even one would have been too much, since no opposition amendment and certainly no 5 Star Movement amendment has passed. I will talk about the forms, procedures and method, which always imply the substance of the facts. It is important to speak, because here we have come to empty things and leave only the formality of making oppositions speak in an empty Chamber where the other Members are not present and do not even bother to listen to the reasons. There is no comparison; there is no listening. What exactly is happening these days? That same deconstitutionalization that in 1994 was strongly desired by the right, but was then contained by a certain left. The same left that is now implementing the same project that in 2001, when it came to a small part of the Constitution, verified that the reform had not been very involved and stated that it would never do such a thing again. There was also a referendum that was not very well attended, and the left, then, could say that this was not a good thing. Yet, the opposite is the case today. There is therefore a transition from representative democracy, which we believe was ripe for becoming a direct democracy, to decision-making democracy. Why did this happen, since there was a time when someone in this country was fighting to go in another direction? Because it is other forces that dictate the agenda: these are international and supranational forces. Therefore, the Boschi of conflicts of interest and of the banks and Renzi, with its overlychism, are nothing more than instruments, gloves shod by others, more powerful. So what's going on? It is right to repeat it, because repeating it helps. The Constitutional Court, by ruling No. 1 of 2014, declared the unconstitutionality of the so-called Porcellum, under which the XVII legislature was elected. [[Brusio. References by the President]] , but the Government and the parliamentary majority did not respect the limits that this judgment imposed on the legislator. It happened that the Court, while declaring the Porcellum unconstitutional for some of its parts, i.e. for the majority prize, allowed the Chambers to continue to operate, but according to the principle of continuity of the State. In order to implement this extension, the Court expressly referred to two articles of the Constitution: Article 61, according to which the Chambers can continue their work until the new ones are elected, and Article 77, which provides for the possibility for the Chambers, even if dissolved, to be convened to convert the decree-laws into law, i.e. for urgent regulation. In fact, I remind all of you that the decrees-laws are provided for precisely in cases of urgency. Well, this principle of continuity of the State meets very short time limits: no more than three months. It was said, however, that it was not possible and that the international and national economic contingency did not allow elections to take place in three months. Perhaps it could have been done in a year; but no! One year would have been enough to revise the electoral law and return to the polls, to finally have a legitimate and constitutional parliament. On the other hand, it has been thought of as an institutional gamble, i.e. the revision of the Constitution has taken place, with men and women illegally sitting on the backs of this Parliament thanks to an unconstitutional majority prize. And what do these men and women do? They press buttons that make the difference between passing and not passing a certain measure, including constitutional reform. They are unelected but nominated men and women, blackmailable for their fear of losing a place that does not belong to them. When one has the perception of illegality, one is afraid of losing what - precisely - is not a right. In fact, thanks to this blackmail, the rules of the game have changed even before these were rules, i.e. a state of affairs has been implemented, it has already been given to establish, when it was not yet, at the strokes of demands of confidence votes and decree-laws. Today we are already living in a Parliament other than the one dictated by the Constitution, even if the Constitution does not prohibit certain practices, because it clearly leaves wide discretion; in fact, it is true that certain practices are not expressly prohibited, but the fact of systematically resorting to the vote of confidence and the decree-law imposing the will and the majority means that the game has already changed. Let's get back to the question of method. In addition to that analysis, there is the fact that the proposed revision of the Constitution at our examination is a governmental initiative. It is a clear anomaly, even this one which is not explicitly prohibited, but which does not fall within the logic of things. What does the Government have to do with the executive power that should deal with the actual implementation of the laws enacted by Parliament, with the revision of the Constitution? It's got nothing to do with it! He was supposed to be a spectator. In fact, it is not by chance that the Constitutional Court, that is, the supreme body that supervises the respect of the Constitution, is appointed by Parliament, the President of the Republic and the judiciary, but not by the Government. Yet this is happening. Then there is another bad anomaly represented by the fact of comparing, of comparing in parallel the permanence in Renzi's political life with the victory in the referendum. So the life of a political man, not elected and absolutely very questionable, is being put on the same footing, with what should be the Constitutional Charter of all Italians. This is not just a draft law, it is a momentary decision, but - I repeat - the Constitutional Charter. He is asking explicitly that the referendum be related to Renzi's permanence in politics: to express a yes or a no for the Constitution will be to give a yes or a no for Renzi. This is unacceptable, megalomaniac and childish! It's a real blackmail! What is the Constitution? Unfortunately, I am here to repeat it, because it seems that we have forgotten it: it is a tool to limit power and avoid abuse and to avoid first and foremost the concentration of power in the hands of a few. Well, that is what we want to do: we want to destroy the architecture of the Constitution precisely because it bears these values and we denounced it as early as July 2013, after a report by JP Morgan, a private financial company, which made an analysis of the European Constitutions and evaluated them too liberal, too socialist, because they predicted weak executives against parliaments, because they protected workers' rights too much and allowed the license to protest. Then we asked a question and asked if the Government was aware of this report of a private financial company from overseas and asked the Government to give a clear answer in defence of our Constitution. We did not get an answer to this question, the JP Morgan did with this government bill. Thank you. I understand, too. What, then, is the architecture of the Constitution? It provides for a clear horizontal and vertical division. The horizontal division is between legislative, executive and judicial power. For those who do not remember it, a net division of the three powers is absolutely necessary to maintain and guarantee democracy and after the adoption of this bill will no longer be so clear. The vertical division is between the authorities: the State, the Regions and the Local Authorities. Then it provides for the presence of guarantee bodies, precisely the Constitutional Court and the President of the Republic, but also in this field it gets a hand. In short, the whole process that has characterized the debate and the preparation of this bill denotes a lack of constitutional culture and where it is not indiscipline is dole, because I don't think anyone realizes the seriousness of this proposal and whoever realizes it is guilty. A majority vote was taken. Again, I would like to remind all of you that in 2001 the constitutional reform of the Centre-Left was defined by all as an experience not to be repeated and some of you were certainly there to say these things. The 1948 Constitution was approved by more than 90 percent of the consensus. The Renzi Government, on the other hand, in this parliamentary process does not have the consent of anyone; it does not have the consent of the oppositions and even some parliamentarians of the majority manifest some doubts, or at least manifested them. Then what happened? These regurgitations of conscience, of ethics, have been silenced. There is always a coin, an oboleum, that serves to silence consciences, to make us feel at peace and return home satisfied. It happened with the eligibility and ineligibility of senators. In Article 57, one paragraph contradicting the other tells us that perhaps yes, the senators will be elected even if it is not known how they will be fished by a cauldron of elected local authorities. However, many of you have felt that this has been a fair remedy for your perplexity and you have moved forward. But the rules of the democratic game must be changed together, because the Constitution is not an instrument that is the subject of political battles. The current majority is, therefore, altered by this majority prize. This distortion, which is already allowing the manipulation of the Constitution, together with the electoral law with which it mates - the Italicum - will expect an even worse situation, because it will allow, black and white, similar majority prizes and will certainly allow a party that can take even a quarter of the votes of the voters (and not of those entitled, therefore really a miserable part of the total) to command over all. There is, then, this referendum that does not enter into the specific of the bill, because it does not deal with the functions of the Senate, the method of election of the senators, the election of the President of the Republic, the senators of presidential nomination, the competences of the Regions, which now remain without competence: the voters will be asked to express only a yes or a no, there is no way of diversifying. Madam President, allow me to speak for another minute, because I would also like to point out a few points in relation to the procedure that this constitutional revision has had. First of all, I recall the removal of three senators in June 2014 from the Senate's Constitutional Affairs Committee: Senator Mauro, Senator Mineo and Senator Chiti; since they had invoked respect for freedom of conscience, they were relieved of office. There is a second question that leaves me very perplexed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I already gave her an extra minute. Make sure you finish. NUGNES (M5S). I'm gonna finish. At first reading there were Senator Finocchiaro as a majority rapporteur and, as a minority rapporteur, Senator Calderoli; at second reading only Senator Finocchiaro remained and no longer Senator Calderoli: the minority rapporteur failed. Last but not least, in October 2015, the vote on the Cociancich amendment, which was structured in such a way as to preclude a whole series of votes which would have required a secret vote. I must say that we experienced a great, high moment in this House when that amendment came out. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u11	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scavone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u12	Madam President, I would like to say that I am referring to the presentation of the speech in this House and I turn the text over to the documents.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u13	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u14	Senator Alicata is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the text that we are about to vote with a yes or a no in this last passage to the Senate is far from that presented by the Government. In that text you could find some of the guidelines of the constitutional reform of 2005 promoted by the Berlusconi government, such as the end of the perfect bicameralism and a Senate representative of regional realities. That reform of ours provided for the abolition of the concurrent competence between the State and the Regions, which, approved by the constitutional changes of the left of 2001, has created, in more than a decade, a vast dispute between the State and the Regions at the Constitutional Court. That dispute weighed heavily, delaying the development of the country. All the changes made during this parliamentary process, which was long but lacking in real confrontation, did not resolve the critical aspects of the reform; on the contrary, a text was trivialized which, on the other hand, had to be deepened, not achieving the objectives that were intended to be pursued. The path of dialogue undertaken with the main opposition party, which was not a real articulated one but an attempt to share reforms, was not only trampled on, but even trivialized. The result is just a trivial and useless reform because written by the majority, overcoming a serious confrontation with the opposition. With regard to the functions assigned to the new Senate, those assigned to him attempt to achieve the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism, modifying the institutional weight of the Second Chamber. The aim of the reform is to exclude the Senate from the trust circuit - trust is only requested from the House - and to reduce its weight in the legislative process. But while the Senate is being transformed into a representative assembly of territorial authorities, a highly centralistic reorganization of the form of State is being carried out and therefore a clear marginalization of its role. The compensation that has been tried to implement towards the role of the Senate, increasing the number of bicameral laws, continues to highlight a form of government that remains parliamentary, although having excluded, as said, the Senate from the trust circuit. Much of the Senate's functions, such as that on the evaluation of public policies and activities of public administrations, are diminished precisely because they attributed to a second Chamber to which the trust bond with the Government has been severed, just as it is ambiguous - and it will require regulatory action for its implementation - the provision for the election of 95 senators. It is not clear how the choices made by the voters for the candidate advisers can be made: a very confused and indeterminate expression that will create an institutional confusion between the roles of mayors, councillors, Presidents of the Region and senators. We are also faced with a mess where the municipalities are expected to be represented in the Senate, but their representatives will not be chosen by the citizens or even by the municipalities themselves, but by the regional councils; with what criterion is not given to know. Much is left to the implementing law, but it would have been more appropriate to define matters immediately. Even on the timing of implementation of the bicameral law governing the election of senators remains a fundamental contradiction between the two terms provided for in the same article of the bill. The question arises as to whether six months from the date of the election of the Chamber or six months from the date of entry into force of the constitutional law. A great confusion, in short, unless the real intention of the majority was simply to dequalify the second House, which would no longer find its legitimacy in a direct election, among other things clearly violating Article 1 of the Constitution, which provides that sovereignty belongs to the people. The further element of inequality is that of the appointment of five senators by the President of the Republic, no longer for life, but for a period of seven years. To these are added those by right, the former Presidents of the Republic, who continue to be members of the Senate for life. The aim is also that, declared in the title of the bill, to reduce costs, but in reality the costs, evaluated from several parts, do not diminish at all and this remains only a trivial, trivial argument of tried propaganda. A close connection must then be recorded between this constitutional reform, which strongly alters the system of weights and counterweights provided for by the current Constitution, and the new electoral law, the so-called Italicum, modelled to be applied to the Chamber of Deputies alone. Precisely the overcoming of equal bicameralism and the redefinition of a series of powers at the head of the Government and of the functions of the Chamber, which is the holder of the trust relationship with the Executive, and which is elected by giving the winning list a strong majority prize, substantially alter the system of weights and counterweights in favor of the Executive, putting at serious risk precisely that constitutional engineering created by the constituent Fathers to prevent it from being a power to subject others. The allocation of powers so wide to an executive supported by the winning list, which benefits from the majority prize, but which could be a minority in the country, gives us very disturbing aspects not only for the quality of the laws that would be produced for citizens, but also for our democracy. It is precisely the reforms we are examining that are a clear example of this, if a minority (the Democratic Party) who has obtained the majority prize declared unconstitutional can change our Constitution in a very serious way. The reform instead had to be written by a large parliamentary group just to be more serious, more authoritative and lasting and this precisely because the decision of the Constitutional Court on the so-called Porcellum has delegitimized the majority prize, and therefore the action of the Democratic Party, reducing its political and moral legitimacy. Thus, the limits to the possibility of constitutional revision dictated by the Constitution itself and by constitutional jurisprudence in multiple judgments have been overcome by majority shots, but even the political and moral limits that legitimize such a wide-ranging rewriting of the Constitution. [[Applause from Senators Comrade and Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Micheloni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u17	Madam President, this is not an easy speech for me, so I would ask you to be patient. As far as the substance of this reform is concerned, I would ask you to refer back to my speech in this House on 15 July 2014 because I do not change anything of the things I said then with regard to my opposition. However, I followed the general debate until the end of the House's work this morning and I would like to say a few words to remind the friends and friends of the opposition that, in democracy, you can also experience the misfortune of being in the majority one day. And then all the verbal excesses, all the attacks away from the common sense and logic of the parliamentary debate will come back as boomerangs. So, I think it would be good for everyone to moderate their tones. Today's speeches about dictatorships, people tied to armchairs, and other things like that might come back someday. As I said once - but I want to repeat this because I am convinced that it is the real problem of our country - anti-politics is a problem that is being tackled in all the countries of Europe. From us there is a difference, and it is a dramatic difference that should make everyone reflect and consists in the fact that anti-politics has achieved such violence as to become an anti-institution: our people today have a rejection of the institutions. Therefore, the attacks on Senator Micheloni (I speak of myself to avoid references to others, but the principle applies to all parliamentarians and politicians) are justified, they are part of the rules of democracy. But when these attacks, this anti-politics falls on the institutions, then no one controls anything in a country and then the roads that open are unknown and dangerous. I would therefore like to express a wish that everyone should lower their voices when it comes to this subject. Then there is something that worries me a lot. For several months we have all been bombarded in the e-mails about civil unions. For Christ's sake, this is a serious problem, which concerns some tens of millions of our citizens. Personally, I have not suffered such attacks on constitutional reform. I am very concerned about this aspect of the Members' everyday life, because it shows how sensitive our people are to us and to our institutions. This does not remove anything from my opposition to this reform of the Constitution. I announce here that I will campaign against this law, I will join the referral committees for no and I can also announce that abroad, where I live, in Europe, committees for no are being prepared. But why am I against it? As I said, I spoke about the subject in 2014 and the things said remain valid. I am opposed because I am convinced that the system proposed to us today does not work for the country, is dangerous for our country and will not guarantee the cohesion of the nation. This is the other problem we have in Italy: we do not have the sense of the State, we do not have the sense of belonging to a national community. Well, this system aggravates the problem and this reform, in my opinion, does not respond to the distance that has been created between the citizen and the institutions, on the contrary, I believe it increases this aspect. That is the reason for my opposition. Is reform necessary? Yes, a reform is necessary. Many colleagues have made much better efforts than me in proposing interventions to reform our Constitution, modernise it and make the country more governable by overcoming bicameralism. We have put forward all the proposals and they have not been accepted. However, when it is said that something is not working, a French proverb comes to mind, which reads: "The bad workers always have bad tools" (I don't know if that's what they say in Italian). Perhaps then, if the system does not work, it is because we are not good workers in this system and we should think a little more about ourselves. Finally, I want to touch on an aspect that highlights the limitations and problems of the system if it is put up in this way. I have been told an information that I do not want to believe; I consider it a monumental hoax, however, hoping that it is a hoax, the fact that someone thought of it should make us worry about how this system can one day be used. If you remember, as an elected member of the foreign college I had proposed to remove the MPs from the House that gives confidence to the Government, because I would consider a step forward for the community that I represent here to be present only in the Chamber that does not give confidence to the Government but that expresses needs, directives and proposals for action, released from the relationship of trust with the Government. This proposal has not been accepted either. Well, the bufala that circulates is the following (and, I repeat, I really hope that I have been intoxicated by this information): it seems that an agreement is under discussion between the MAIE - Italian associative movement abroad, which has here a senator and two or three Members of the House - and Mr Verdini to obtain a modification of the electoral law that gives us the obligation to reside abroad, providing applications abroad, in Europe, through the MAIE, for some people. I repeat: I hope it is a hoax, however we will understand it if we are proposed to amend that law. This is worrying for the underlying thought. It would not have occurred to me, so I am admired by the inventive abilities of those who think these things, but this is one of the risks. I will conclude by making it clear that I will vote today and I do not want to hide why I am not announcing it now: out of respect for my history, out of respect - and I address my colleague, Mr Nugnes, who says that we have only had regurgitation or that we are tied to these seats - of my wife and children, who lived without me because I lived for politics. I have lived for politics and not for politics and my family has lived for my work as a builder in Switzerland and not for what I perceived in politics and today, as several colleagues (I see one in front of me), we are here to lose money because we can afford it, having worked before. Out of respect for these people, I cannot take the risk - at least at this time and I want to understand exactly - of being the one tonight to ensure that this reform passes with some vote of another political force and not of the party to which I still belong. That is the doubt I still have. There is no doubt about the reform and what I have announced about my intention to campaign against it, but this has nothing to do with the relationship of trust with the Government. I would also like to make it clear to the colleagues with whom I fought in the first readings that if I have to reproach this Government for something, I am reproaching the inadequacy of some decisions and actions that have been taken. The jobs act to me has disturbed because it has not yet brought us into a North European system of job management. So it's not okay for me, not for the same reasons I always read in the press. It's not good for me because it hasn't modernised the rules of work as it is in the whole of Northern Europe, an area of our interest because it's in competition with us and with which we have to compete as a country. This government, the government I support, doesn't suit me because in the public administration it didn't do enough. We have long been proposing the reform of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and there is no shadow of it. That's why I have problems with the current government, not because of opposition or lack of trust. Therefore, tonight I will take on my responsibilities, as I have always done in my life. Then, within my party, who has to decide what future relations will be. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Petrocelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u18	Good morning Madam President and good morning to my colleagues, senators and senators, and especially good morning to the Italians who listen to us on this day, as they heard yesterday, and who usually follow the Senate's work. But is it really going to be a good morning? I doubt it, really. Like Mr Micheloni, who just preceded me, I will not repeat the reasons why I doubt that this will be remembered as a good day. In fact, in the last act of parliamentary passages relating to constitutional counter-reforms, I just want to stress, at the beginning of the speech that I will make with these last 20 minutes of reflection, that despite everything I am still convinced that it is counter-reform. It is a good thing that historians and history will establish the adjective best suited to the path we are unfortunately pursuing, because it is history that gives the definitive titles to the legal provisions. In fact, as far as the President of the Council can call Unlock Italy a measure, it will be the history of our country and of the European Union and it will be the material conditions of those who live and live there to tell us if this path can really represent an unblocking for our country and have positive effects on the living conditions of its citizens and on the whole economy or if instead it will produce bad conditions, as I am afraid. It is a good thing that it is not enough, with an activity of pure propaganda, to put roboating titles to legislative interventions so that history remembers to rename them as they deserve best. Our country has examples. A counter-reform like the one we are releasing resembles many other propaganda reforms that we have seen over the centuries, starting from the Council of Trent and what happened in those years, then judged for what they were giving them the right label. And not just in this area. We are an example of terms that certainly did not have negative connotations when they were coined. Here I want to remember, and the reference is not purely random, the term fascism, that at the moment of its conception had no negative connotation, but that today we know well what heavy consequences of tears and blood has produced over the years and that still today we drag ourselves behind as an issue never completely resolved in our country. I repeat, I do not quote a random term, my quote is deliberately not random. What we have before our eyes is a path already analyzed quite thoroughly. I will not be here to repeat things already said in the previous passages, but I want to make two distinctions: what could happen if we have only one man in command in the coming months and years and, briefly, what many, in this last period and in any case in this legislature, have said about this path of constitutional counter-reforms. I will recover some passages, some reflections made by others, some positions of mine and of my Group. I start from a general consideration that I would summarize in the following sentence: are these counter-reforms a pretext or a reality? And from this I would start to say that objectively I believe that the path we are facing, whether it is a pretext or a reality, it seems to me that it serves to keep up the current Government, the previous and the one that has proceeded even before, in a context in which it governs a main contradiction, that between money and work. We are not going to delete a written Constitution in such a way that there was an explicit reference to the work proper to the first article of the 1948 Constitution. I am talking about the contradiction between money and work, because I do not feel like recovering old clichés such as those of the contradiction between capital and labour: here we are precisely the contradiction between monetarism and work. I believe that this contradiction is really becoming apparent, and I do not believe that there is a better excuse, from the time of the appointment of the fifteen essays, to make the path of so-called constitutional reforms, which I continue to call counter-reform, the prince pretext to buy time and to keep up all the real and supposed majorities that followed in the seventeenth legislature. I remember that more than anyone has written, in these three years or so of legislature, that this pretext of constitutional counter-reform probably served to keep up their government majorities, at least - I would add - until one day the real intentions of those who are really managing the reform or counter-reform process, that is, the needs of the Government of Chancellor Merkel. When those demands, which are also the needs of the most reactionary part of the European Union, are clear, it will not be at all important that these so-called constitutional reforms, and I am also saying electoral reform, have been done for real or for fake purposes. And here I come back to the main point: pretext or reality? At that point I am convinced that it will survive, in the institutions of our country, but also between the social partners, the unions, the social relations between the people who live in this country, who will have been able to engage in the rules imposed by the European Union and its supranational institutions. For the rest, probably for more than half of Italian society, there will be only one word of comfort, which perhaps will come in a way unfortunately sometime from Pope Francis. I now want to remind you that many people have said in this legislature that the capacity of our 1948 Constitution was basically to hold together different political cultures (I will not dwell on the methods and means used then to hold these different cultures together). This recognition that was given to the 1948 Constitution has now been completely erased. At that time the country had a sort of biodiversity, not only social, but above all political. This biodiversity, in the counter-reform that this Parliament is approving, is being transformed. I would rather talk about a Constitution that uses the concept of competitiveness, replacing it with that of political and social biodiversity. This too comes from supranational institutions, especially those not voted by citizens. I am not talking about the European Parliament, which, in my view, is not doing its job as it should. Replacing the concept of competitiveness (a word that has roots in economic and financial mechanisms) to that of political biodiversity (which identified the 1948 Constitution) is the biggest damage that the operations carried out by this Government could do to our Constitutional Charter. This passage, consisting in replacing competitiveness with others, has its roots in 2003, in the path that started precisely in those years. This is a passage which I do not consider irrelevant. Basically, what does it do? It means that the Constitution that we will approve - for those who will approve it, I will, of course, vote against it - loses much of its capacity for social aggregation, compensating it precisely with an electoral competitiveness, which, in my modest view, is a phenomenon that presupposes the transition to economic dynamics rather than a purely political dynamic. It loses its political centrality in the country's fundamental Charter and replaces it with gruff operations; concepts, hypotheses, axioms that come precisely from the degeneration due to the fact that in this country and in Europe as a whole, the dominance of the culture of monetary and fiscal economy has taken over the culture of social coexistence and politics understood in its purest and simplest form, because purity, in this case, is synonymous with simplicity and not complication. This is what I believe has happened in this parliamentary term. But, if the man only at the command that will come - I hope he will never come, considering what could mean for the life of all Italian citizens - he will be called to govern the fate of this country following the dictates of inaccurate lobbying and economic-financial categories that dictate the rules from the top of a mandate that has not been granted to him by anyone, then I want to complete my speech with a perspective: what I see, what is the main failure that could lead man only to the command that will come to the things that are on the agenda of the political, economic and financial national and international chronicle of these days? I do so by referring to something which could happen in the coming months and which perhaps concerns me more than Mr Micheloni is concerned about the advent of anti-politics throughout Europe. I would not like to see the signals coming in these months on the possibility of Italian intervention in the North African scenario and, in particular, in Libya, turning into reality. The signals that come to me denounce a strong pressure of the European Socialist Party that is lobbying and that would like a part of the European countries and, in particular, our country, together with Greece, France and Spain, in action contrary to the now classic austerity policy, which, even today, is led by the German Government of Chancellor Merkel. In this operation, of course, other issues have been on the agenda for years now in the Italian political scene as the issue of migrants, which is used as head of rams to break through the internal and external consent at the moment by the President of the Council Matteo Renzi and his trusty squire Angelino Alfano. [[Applause from Senator Airola.]] I believe that there is a trap going against the policy of rigour promoted above all by the Merkel Government and the idea that the German Chancellor has made the future of Europe. In this trap, which is also part of this potential plan or political obsession I would say of the European Socialist Party (PSE), our country could have a central and unfortunately damaging role. I really hope not. What is the plan and obsession at the time of the PSE in the general context of the constitutional counter-reform process here in Italy? In this particular case, to defeat ISIS in Libya it takes money or, if this money does not arrive, that there is the threat that our country lives in terror of what could happen a few hundred kilometers from our coasts. What, then, is the potential trap? I would like to understand if it is a trap for the Renzi Government or ordered also by the Renzi Government and its occult or manifest envoys. The European Union must allow all the financial parameters, including debt and fiscal compact, to be exceeded in order to allow the financing of the next and probable intervention and to be able to give the industries involved the gains that have been promised in the election campaign of the President-in-Office of the Council who brought it to the Presidency of the Council. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The President of the Council is objectively obsessed with winning consensus today especially in three areas of the country, the Triveneto, the Bresciano and the Liguria spezzina that, by chance, are notoriously land of weapons and military technologies. Why? Because he has to pay the bill to that eager part of the business establishment that brought him to Palazzo Chigi. What, then, is the objective danger? Imitating Tsar Putin, Matteo Renzi (together with his French colleague, with whom he is consolidating a political, economic, but above all energy alliance in North Africa) seeks a real war situation that can justify the objective economic and political failure now taking place in our country and uses it as a gremaldello to force the agreements already made in Europe and, above all, to force the decisions of the European Central Bank. If the European Union does not allow the overtaking of the parameters, the economic system, I believe in at least five countries of the Union, will see the collapse. What, then, is the exchange goods that the Renzi Government can supply? It's meat, in exchange for silver. And God does not want - for those who are believers - or the future desire - for those who, like me, are not believers - that black sacks begin to arrive, for the insane choices that will be dictated, imposed or suggested to our Government - and of which this process of counter-reform is the emblem - to ensure the credentials of reliability and stability, vis-à-vis the strong European powers. Otherwise, if the price - meat in exchange for silver - is not paid, the government will miserably fail the supposed economic reforms, which it promised the Union and the European Commission and which objectively cannot guarantee - it is news these days - because behind there are only lies. Is this a trap for Renzi? Will it be a trap ordained by Renzi and his envoys? Unfortunately, I cannot know this: I only know that, at this moment, what will be voted on here is only a small piece - that in our country the propaganda of regime alternately exalts or keeps hidden, depending on the conveniences - of what will reserve for us the future and of which we are participating actors. If the constituent Fathers of this reform will not be as proud, as were the constituent Fathers of the 1948 Constitution, I certainly believe that it will not be the fault of those who are opposing this counter-reform, but only of the laxity with which it was proposed to the country, which unfortunately will have very high prices to pay, in the near future. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u19	We greet the students and students of the San Giuseppe Institute in Grottaferrata, in the province of Rome. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u20	Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u21	Madam President, we are here to talk about this last step in constitutional reform, in a debate that seems a little absurd to me. What is the point, in fact, of discussing a measure that cannot be changed? It's mostly for two reasons. The first is due to the respect due to this institution, as Mr Micheloni said just now. Respect is extremely important and perhaps many of us have not considered it and have thus generated the growth of the concept of anti-policy. I want to remind you that, in Germany, a rampant young government has resigned for copying a piece of thesis. In this Senate, on the other hand, there are people with such a curriculum that, in other countries, you would not see them sitting in Parliament, but in the prison patriae. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I therefore believe that, if there is a regurgitation of anti-politics, it is also a bit because of us. I am truly sorry that yesterday, from 6.30 p.m. to 8.30 p.m., I could not sit in these scans, out of respect for this Senate, but I was engaged in the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission. I finished my commitment to the Commission, I arrived here and stayed until 2.26 p.m., when the sitting was closed, and we were 29 Members of the 5 Star Movement and 11 Members of the other Groups. Maybe that's why he's mounting anti-politics too: I say it with great sadness, because the role of the Senate is extremely important. It is a role that should really fill us with joy, it is a role of service to our citizens; instead we mistreat it in this way. This is what is being played by those who want to destroy our way of working. The second consideration is that in this way I allow myself to be in place with my conscience. Tomorrow, when my grandchildren ask me where I was when they turned the Constitution upside down and what I did to avoid it, I'll say I did everything I could. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I have spoken in the Commission and in this House every time I have been allowed and I have always tried to express my thoughts, so much so that the last time, despite being present, I did not participate in the vote of 2 000 amendments. This was also rebuked by someone, because it was not understood that it was political action. I want to tell you the fact: it was running on August 6, 2014 and a secret vote was under way (it was an amendment that allowed it), and the government went under. I called Senator Quagliariello and pointed out that after a few minutes there would be seven other amendments with the possibility of secret voting. I was aware of this, and I could have asked: I was a delegate to this House, I had confidence in it. I did not, however, because I believed that reason, intelligence and mediation were worth in Parliament. Unfortunately, this never happened and not even an amendment of the 5 Star Movement Group passed. In fact, my behavior was considered a weakness. I already told this story in the Chamber on 7 August last, in session n. 302 (as reported on page 217 of the shorthand report). This shows that it is not true that there was no willingness on our part to dialogue. This amendment to the Constitution, on the other hand, is the result of your protection, pride and arrogance. It certainly cannot be said that we did not want to contribute to change: we believe in it and we would have wanted to change the Constitution so that it really was the most beautiful one in the world! I have made this premise so that it is clear what my feelings and behaviour have been in the face of an object that must be manipulated with care, with love and with the utmost attention and delicacy possible. Just because I have not seen the same attitudes on your part, let me use some strong tone, which further emphasizes my regret and indignation for so vile a relation to the Constitution. I believe that, in order to be consistent, after the adoption - which will be certain - of this Constitutional Charter, you should repeal Article 348 of the Criminal Code or the abuse of the profession. It is difficult to argue that a person cannot exercise a profession because he lacks a professional academic title when a Parliament is appointed by an unconstitutional and therefore untitled law (such as professionals) operates and changes the laws. If intervention on some legislative areas could be acceptable because it was done by state of necessity, as a matter of urgency, this is certainly not the case with constitutional reform: it is a reform that focuses power in a few hands, that does not shorten the distance between the government and the citizens, indeed expropriates them from the little of decision-making autonomy that was left to them. First of all, it should be borne in mind that the procedure laid down in Article 138 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights presupposes that the exercise of constitutional revision is for the members of the two Chambers representing the people, to whom sovereignty clearly belongs, in accordance with Article 1, who must be elected by a vote, clearly of the citizens, which is a personal vote, equal, free and secret, in accordance with Article 48 of the Constitution. Too bad that this is a Parliament in office in which Members have been proclaimed elected according to the application of mechanisms declared constitutionally illegitimate by the Constitutional Court in judgment No 1 of 2014, from which comes a clear and obvious lack of legitimacy of these two Chambers to proceed to the revision of the constitutional text and, even more so, to the modification of the entire II Part of it. The formal hearings have given rise to some very interesting points. In fact, of the seven constitutionalists who appeared, five clearly stated that the majority prize could not be validated. We are talking about 148 Members out of 630; 148 votes that today, in the House, have weighed on the vote on these constitutional reforms. These five constitutionalists also made clear the principle of continuity of the State, arguing that the Chambers could continue to operate thanks to this implicit principle but limited in time, as exemplified by the Court itself in that judgment with the reference to the extension provided for in Articles 61 and 77, second paragraph, of the Constitution which provides at most an extension of a few months but certainly not of an entire legislature. Professor De Fiores, for example, said that he doubted that Parliament was in the legal-constitutional condition to exercise the power of revision for two reasons, namely that an elected Parliament with an unconstitutional electoral law could not be entitled to reform the Constitutional Charter from which superior provisions derive, by contrast, its illegality, and that the constitutional revision is outside the principle of continuity of the functions of the constitutional bodies. In support of this thesis there is also Professor Sorrentino. These are not the only five constitutionalists who have expressed themselves in this sense, so much so that in those hearings the publication of a note, which had been published on Constitutional Comparisons, by Professor Gino Scaccia of LUISS, who argued that, at the time when the Constitutional Court declared the electoral law unconstitutional, beyond the legal issues, the political legitimacy of Parliament fails. In a further interview given last August by Professor Alessandro Pace, who is professor emeritus of constitutional law at the Faculty of Law of La Sapienza in Rome, he also spoke about the legitimacy of these Chambers with words that some restraint should Put it on. Despite what I have told you, and what has been said by the Constitutional Court and most scholars, you have moved forward, resulting in a strongly unbalanced reform in favour of the government. It is an even more obvious goal if you evaluate the combined arrangement of these reforms together with the Italicum electoral law you have conceived. Our parliamentary Republic, which has been left to us by far more wise than we constituent Fathers, will basically become a presidential Republic. In fact, the institutional axis in favour of the Commission will move. Just to be clear, we will have a government that with its President-in-Office of the Council will fully manage the agenda of parliamentary work, that is, decide which laws will be calendarized and which will be approved or not, and a House that, by majority, will execute. She will be a mere performer, also strong of that numerical majority that will be guaranteed by the majority prize that is inserted within the Italicum. It is a problem which, for those who are not in charge of the work, may not seem so nodal, but in reality it is. In fact, a reform of this kind cannot be done just as you did, so much so that it is packed with profiles of constitutional criticality. At the Senate you voted this law between commodities, exchanges, blackmail and transformations: what even at journalistic level has been called a market. Another noun had been added that I do not intend to report out of respect. You have even procrastinated the renewal of the Commissions of six months to use them as exchange goods. With this text of law our Constitutional Charter will be completely buried together with its fundamental values; you have demolished it in the Senate on the basis of these unspeakable agreements. That must at least be said, President, because a multi-stakeholder for corruption and fraudulent bankruptcy has made him a constituent father. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What sadness, indeed, to see parliamentarians who in the course of the various passages first said one thing, then diametrically the opposite, and then return to their steps at the change of their political faction. This is proof that the substance of the so-called reform was not the subject of the discussion but was the evaluation criteria. One of the main reasons you use to support this vicious bill is that perfect bicameralism does not work; yet, whenever you want and it suits you, you can pass laws in a flash, to keep, for example, electoral refunds without controlling party budgets. The example we are quoting here is that of the so-called Boccadutri law. What's going on? In this legislature, in which at least there is still bicameralism formally, it happens that this House after the summer passed a law, so-called Boccadutri because the first signatory has this surname, which introduces nothing but a sanatoria with regard to reimbursements to the parties; that is, a Commission by law had to check the statements of the parties, which was apparently not given enough staff, and therefore could not do the appropriate controls provided for by law. Well, with a small rule inserted precisely in the so-called Boccadutri law, sanatoria has been created and parties have been allowed to obtain such refunds, although the competent Commission checks provided for by law have not been carried out. This is an example of how bicameralism actually works when there is the will; but you do not have the will to approve serious laws, such as the one on class action, which has been approved in the House (you still keep it covered up and the Senate does not see the light), or as, for example, an important reform such as the law on citizenship income, which you stubbornly do not want to calendarize in the proceedings of the Senate Chamber, or as the conflict of interests involving Minister Boschi, the Minister for Reforms, fully involved in the scandal of the four banks and in particular on Banca Etruria-Boschi. What role has the Minister played in these insider trading manoeuvres, which could also involve Davide Serra's financial company, one of Renzi's main London-based financiers? I remember that, following the announcement of the decree-law on popular banks, in fifteen days, from 16 to 30 January, Bank Etruria earned 67 percent; the largest of the other banks 13 percent: this should also be explained. Allow me to make a joke about the concept of efficiency-productivity, which, frankly, I never understood. A few months ago on a national newspaper appeared a job done very well in which it was said that the Letta Government, remained in office from 28 April 2013 to 21 February 2014, for a total of three hundred days, that is nine months and twenty-five days, approved 35 laws, of which 25 decree-laws, 4 draft laws and 6 draft laws of ratification. The article, very long, then takes into consideration all the other governments, but I am not here to list the other numbers. We must understand - I said this before and no one has ever given me an answer - what we mean by productivity. If our work is evaluated for the number of laws produced, then it is interesting: I have been here for three years and I have already seen 7-8 decrees on the ILVA and in a few days we will see another. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] At this point we are highly productive. I think we should talk about the concept of quality. We have, for example, seen a number of measures relating to the IMU. It is a few days ago the news that the TAR has postponed the interpretation of the law to the Constitutional Court, because it seems that there is an unconstitutional passage. I therefore believe that we should pay a little more attention to the quality of the measures you are making. Sorry to compare with my profession. How would you judge a surgeon who, after a surgery, sees something wrong and works the same patient several times? You would certainly report him, at the very least, for manslaughter personal injuries (or, if things were worse, for manslaughter) and you would send him home. You don't understand why the surgeon does and you don't. We have made so many proposals in these months. At the Senate, we have tried to change some of the issues, with only 200 amendments. They were clear and simple proposals, that wanted to rewrite and supplement this bill, bad and absurd; I repeat, text that comes from the government, therefore a constitutional reform that comes from the government. In that place, among other proposals, we asked, for example, to cut the number of Members by half; we asked for the direct electivity of the 100 members of the Senate, the abolition of parliamentary immunity; we asked for more guarantees for the opposition, the forfeiture of the parliamentary office in the event of repeated absence and the forfeiture of the senators subjected to criminal proceedings; the inclusion of consultative referendums (no special, I believe). I would like to remind you that this is the Constitution of exclusion and not of inclusion. Increasing signatures for popular initiative laws and repealing referendums is a sign of little foresight and little capacity for analysis. In 2014 in Italy there were 500,000 births and 600,000 deaths: a delta of 100,000 inhabitants, to which must be added, according to the Foundation Migrantes and the Italian Association of Residents abroad, another 100,000 immigrants. In 2015 the only delta between born and dead will be 160,000 inhabitants. And if you calculate that in 2040 when, for personal reasons, the million people born in 1960 will die, compared to 300,000 births, Italy will lose 700,000 inhabitants. If you add to this that already today, in certain Provinces, like mine and that of Mantua, almost two percent of the population lives in nursing homes, and therefore does not have a social life, you will realize that the collection of a large number of signatures will be an increasingly complicated thing. In fact, you will keep citizens further away from decisions and from Parliament. We have also proposed the proposed referendums and guidelines and the reduction of the salary of Members of Parliament together with the abolition of their vitality. These are proposals which, perhaps, are shocking here, but which are genuinely demanded - these yes - by the citizens. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. GAETTI (M5S). President. - I have many other things to add. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you wish you can also deliver the text; you have already exhausted the twenty minutes. GAETTI (M5S). All right, President, then I'll finish with the last three lines, if you'll allow me. I hope I've said the least I can. Much more would have to be added, to be acquitted at least by my grandchildren when they reproach me for not having effectively countered the ruin of our Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scoma. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Members of the Government, I would like to talk to you not about the constitutional reform that we are about to vote on, but about Renzi's lack of reforms. I begin immediately with what, in my opinion, is the most important: the failure to reform the tax system. Tax pressure is rising to 43.7% in 2015: we are at a 0.4 point on 2014. Despite the cancellation of IMU and TASI on the first house, lighter contributions for entrepreneurs who hire, less IRAP for companies and reductions on investments, the tax pressure continues to increase. Renzi accumulates announcements and the effectiveness of the measures and their effects, their sustainability, on the state budget are negative. Renzi finances tax cuts by accumulating new deficits and taking advantage of the flexibility margins that may be granted by the European Union in the coming days. So it's not real cuts, it's just virtual cuts. Moreover, any higher taxes will not be cancelled, but will only be rescheduled: to 2017, 2018, 2019, with the new taxation linked to the safeguard clauses for 56 billion (reduction of tax deductions, dentist, medicine, education of children, citizens, increase in excise duty and increase in VAT up to 13 per cent and 25.5 per cent). Renzi said cutting taxes isn't right. That's right. He told Udine on October 17, 2015, but if we go to see what happened in the meantime, Renzi has increased the IMU for the second homes: raised to 700 percent. Renzi has increased the IMU on agricultural land, the tax on savings from 20 to 26 percent, the taxation of pension funds from 11,5 to 20 percent, the taxation of life insurance yields, the tax on the revaluation of the TFR from 11 to 17%, the tax on the passport from 40 to 73.50 euros, between 4 and 5% the taxes on the cigarette package, the withholding on the costs of redevelopment and energy efficiency, that has gone from 4 to 8 percent, the taxation on non-commercial entities through the reduction of the tax-free quota of the dividends received, the stamp on cars and historical motorcycles, registered between 20 and 30 years ago, through the abolition of the facilities; the tax substitution on the redetermination of the values of purchase of the holdings, the building land and the land with agricultural destination, the taxes on the purchase of devices equipped with digital memory (smartphone or tablet) of about 500 percent, the taxes on renewable energies: revenues from production of clean energy that are taxed to 25 percent, while the first were considered agricultural income. In addition, Renzi emptied the tax relief fund, amounting to 3,300 million, reduced tax credits for gas and heating gas oil in disadvantaged mountain areas. You think that this is not important and that it does not affect those who benefited from these small advantages and today it must not think that they have become disadvantages. Shall we talk about the spending review? Do we want to talk about privatisation, public administration, public administration debts? Shall we talk about the South? Renzi said: "Before the Stability Act, I would like the PD to come out with a real masterplan for the South, with a series of concrete proposals." This is what he told the leadership of the Democratic Party on August 7, 2015. As we know, a meeting for the South Plan had been convened for mid-September and instead the day of the inauguration of the Bari Levant Fair the Premier flew to New York to attend the final of the US Open Pen-Winning and the announced turning point has never been seen. And with the presentation of the law of stability came then the most burning disappointment. For weeks special measures have been mentioned: tax credit for southern companies, tax reduction for South enterprises, decontribution for new recruits in the South regions. [[The microphone is automatically switched off. The President shall arrange for its reactivation.]] Instead, only ad hoc measures: the ILVA of Taranto, the reclamation of the Land of fires in Campania (450 million euros), the completion of the Salerno-Reggio Calabria, an evergreen of governments of all colors. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Anyway, Senator, I invite you to conclude. SCOMA (FI-PdL XVII). And the question of the Mediterranean, the question of the Marò, immigration, the ius soli and the issues of civil rights, the transparency of power, the appointments to the Board of Directors of public companies and Rai? For all these reasons, I think it is clear and clear that the Renzi Government has failed and all these reforms, which have not been and which we consider very important, are certainly not second-rate to a constitutional reform that we are about to vote on and that we absolutely do not. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u24	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u25	Madam President, we could begin this little reasoning with the words of Mr Boschi when he first came to the Commission, the first day he came to explain to us what constitutional reform was in his head. It was very interesting, because for 35 minutes he read a document that probably someone had written to her (he did it without showing a particular soul, as we read the task) and during this reading, at a certain point, he said that since the Senate was perceived by public opinion as a duplication perhaps it was necessary to go beyond and to overcome the bicameralism equal. It was very interesting to hear these words from Minister Boschi, because he immediately revealed what the mantra was, their motive, their thought: 'is perceived by public opinion'. Do we make a constitutional "cracker" because the Senate is perceived by public opinion as a useless duplication? That is why we are intervening in a fundamental part of the coexistence of all citizens, because that is what people want. Perhaps we should have explained to all uninformed citizens, but that we know that we are not fools, as the government and the majority who support it believe, that what they are trying to do is nothing but the usual centralization of power in the hands of the few. We should ask ourselves why we want to concentrate power. The power is centered, always according to the mantra used, because so we are more efficient, we make the laws faster, we make decisions that do not take at the moment because this country is blocked precisely by the fact of not making decisions. But are we sure this is the good of the citizens? Perhaps in Italy - we have said this several times in this House, always talking about constitutional reform - we have the problem of having too many laws, we probably do them wrong and they are also misspelled. Even a normal citizen who has to read the Constitution would be in trouble. We know that the Constitution should be written quite simply so that it is understandable to everyone. Those who read the text of a Constitution must be able to understand it immediately, because it must be written as if it were addressed to a 10-year-old child. It would be nice for the Constitution to be so simple and clear. Instead, in this text, people who have probably studied - perhaps they have graduated and someone may have even done a master's degree - do not really understand what is written and sometimes I get doubts too, because it is a continuous mixing, confusing. As I said before, however, one aspect is clear: centralization of power. There is no need to reiterate what it means to have fakely abolished the Senate and to have centralized the legislative function in the hands of a single Chamber, which will be elected, as we all know, with the Italicum, in which the famous majority prize will put in the hands of the majority party, in this absolute case, the power to make laws, to appoint the judges of the Constitutional Court, to elect the President of the Republic and all the guarantee bodies. When power is centered so strongly, as has already been said, we move towards what we might call a regime. But is a monarchist system, of regime or dictatorial, pretendingly because there is a semblance of democracy, more desirable than a system such as the one in which weights and counterweights are present in order to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves? Perhaps we should talk about what we want to achieve, what situations happen and which could lead us in this direction. Of course, when I say "we" I mean everyone except us in the 5 Star Movement. It is almost useless to specify this, so perhaps I should use the "voi" instead of the "noi", also because the "voi" fits us in a system of regime. What happens in the world? Many things happen in the world and perhaps some of them need to be examined. For example, we all know and have read that Germany, together with Russia, has proposed doubling the Nordstream pipeline. For those who do not know, the Nordstream is that pipe that leaves from Russia, passes under the North Sea, arrives directly in Germany and supplies to the latter, and therefore to Europe, of which Germany is of course the strongest exponent, representative and important, 55 billion cubic meters. With the doubling, we're going to be 110 billion cubic metres. Russia also supplies Europe through another pipeline, called Yamal, which carries about 20 billion cubic metres. This means that Europe is basically fully provided, when the doubling of the Nordstream will be done, through Germany (which would be the new Ukraine). So we will have the transit of all the Russian gas, which provides, as we all know, about 30% of Europe's needs, through Germany. In addition, another interesting fact happens in Germany. In the Frankfurt Stock Exchange the first market has been opened where it is possible to deal with Chinese securities not in euros or dollars, but directly in yuan; it is the first market, outside mainland China, where this happens. It seems that Germany, which was divided into two (of course we all remember the division between the Eastern bloc and the Western bloc), is trying to approach the Eastern bloc. It also happens that in the USA, after forty years of blockade, the ban on exporting crude oil and the first cargo of crude oil on 20 January (now there), will arrive right in Germany passing through the port of Trieste, which is the largest port of oil transit of the Mediterranean. So the American oil, instead of following the routes of the North Sea, will pass in the Mediterranean, will arrive in Trieste and, through the pipeline, will bring the oil to Germany. On the other hand it happens that in the United States the Volkswagen scandal is first discovered, undoubtedly an important industry in Germany and then there is rumor of a class action against Deutsche Bank: the old game of stick and carrot is evident to everyone. Another interesting thing that is happening, as we all know, is that the United States is trying to contain China: the famous " pivot to Asia," which is the American defence strategy in the China Sea. Of course, China responds with the string of pearls, which is the system that the Chinese have basically to counter with the pivot to Asia. As 80% of oil transport in China passes through the Malacca Strait, the Chinese have well thought of making an oil pipeline and a pipeline that passes through Burma and arrives directly in China. Now they are making the Pakistani economic corridor that will allow, through the port of Ghawar (which is 80 kilometers from Iran) to arrive, with an oil pipeline and a pipeline, directly to China in the North. In that port, which is Pakistani (remember that Pakistan is a nuclear power and historical ally of the USA), a naval base will be created, for now civil, Chinese; it is at the beginning of the Strait of Hormuz, which is the other essential transit point for oil trade. Another interesting point to verify is that Iran, after the end of sanctions, has made available to the world its immense gas reserves (37 trillion cubic meters) and these resources can go to East or West. If they go to the East they can follow the path of the Iran-Pakistan-India or Iran-Pakistan-China pipeline. The Indians, who had left the game to do a favor to the Americans, since the Chinese have said they will put the money to make the pipeline trade that is in Pakistan, have also said that they are willing to extend it to China; and after this happened the Indians have returned to the game. They said, one moment, we're interested in your gas too. On the other side we have two very interesting pipelines: the first is Qatar-Saudi Arabia-Jordan-Syria-Turkey and the other pipeline is Iran-Iraq-Syria: it happens, both pass through Syria, and happens to be a bit of a crisis in Syria. Clearly, if Iranian gas or Qatar gas arrives in Europe, the Russians lose their strength, because much of the gas sells it to Europe and therefore do not want it. This is perhaps the real reason for the conflict in Syria, because we want to stop the possibility of making these two pipelines. We should understand the European interest - if we still consider ourselves European - in that game. Mr Petrocelli reminded you of what is happening in Libya and so I am not repeating it. Of course, ENI has discovered the Zohr deposit, which is in Egypt and which, together with Leviathan and Aphrodite, which are two deposits one Israeli and one Cypriot, provides a total of about 2 trillion cubic meters. Since Damietta's plant in Egypt is 50 percent owned by ENI, we are playing our game, in our little, we are playing it through this game to use our regasifiers, which basically do not work. In this strange scenario, with the very strong contrast that there is in the underlying way (because by now war is done with weapons, but up to a certain point) in the great competition between USA, China, Russia, Europe, what Germany is doing and company singing, we always find ourselves in this obnoxious situation that we are friends of the Americans, but we are also friends of the Russians; we are always those. But these levels of being friends of both maybe Giulio Andreotti, who had a remarkable thickness; so I don't think this government has that thickness. For God's sake, Andreotti remains that Belzebu who was, however, this was the level. So, why did we say that? Not to mention what is happening - it is the last note I want to add - with the economic treaties that are under discussion. Of course you know that we are talking about TTIP and the already signed TPP, although it must be ratified by states, which is the US strategy to contain both Russia and China on both sides. This is the scenario, turbulent, given what happens on the oil exchanges at 28 dollars; in short, there is a whole strategy in place. Perhaps this centralization of power, which is within the Constitution, could serve to be ready to intervene, because we do not know what can happen. We really don't know. Of course, no one hopes that what no one would want to happen will happen. But the winds - as I said once in this House - are very bad, Madam President. Spirin' 20 bad guys, very bad guys. And perhaps this is a hidden motive in the head of the one who believes he can intervene and have his hands free to intervene quickly in a situation in the making. But if we want to have free hands to intervene quickly in a situation we do not know the future of, do we do so at the expense of the citizens? Are we doing this at the expense of that democracy which is the only real bulwark we have to avoid a dictatorial regime? Is this what we're doing? What's the hidden reason you're doing this? We should understand that, otherwise we can undoubtedly talk about the halving of the number of parliamentarians, the fact that the Senate will matter nothing, that they come to do the railway after-work. But the railroaders were also there taking the locomotive and using the bomb against injustice, as an old singer said many years ago. If we use this in this way, apart from everything that is involved in parliamentary dynamics, apart from the fact that you are doing something that doesn't make sense, why do we do it? Did we raise this problem? Are we ready to go to war? Let's use that word so we don't talk about it anymore. Are we ready to go to war? My colleague Petrocelli spoke to you earlier about the problem of weapons. Our Finmeccanica is the ninth company in the world to sell weapons. Last year it sold more than EUR 10 billion in weapons; EUR 10 billion, not a lira. And why have we been refocused in the core business of aerospace, which nothing else means weapons? That means Finmeccanica. Why? Are we getting ready to go to battle? With who? With the Americans? 10 nuclear aircraft carriers, 110 tons of dislocation each, 1,780 ready nuclear warheads. Shall we talk about the ones the Russians have? We want to talk about this, we want to talk about the French, what do we want to talk about? Do we want to talk about the nuclear warheads that we have on our planes and that obviously cannot be used without the ok of the President of the United States and without NATO's ok? Are we ready to go to war? Do you want to do this? Damn it, you want to tell us? If that is the deep reason why we must be ready to intervene because we are in a situation that we do not know how it will become - curse - then we are insane. You can't be that crazy. Something like that never happens. What do we think we can do? Who are we? We've always been a little nation. We are the nation that, twice, entered the war on the side of the defeated and ended it on the side of the winners. This is Italy. Are we this or not? So, do we want to change the Constitution to be ready and brilliant? Because Boschi doesn't tell us; maybe he doesn't think about these things; he doesn't get there. Perhaps he does not have the cultural and intellectual capacity, from the point of view of his ability to elaborate thought, to arrive at these speeches, but Matteo Renzi, the one whose imitation Crozza makes, arrives. I leave aside the imitation of Crozza of my president, Vincenzo De Luca, whom I greet dearly. He's very good at being a leader, the only man in command. However, if this is the deep drift towards which we are going, it is another reason why you will always find us against us. If the authoritarian drift serves to do these and other things, to direct the new economy, then we are defeated not as 5 Star Movement, which is here head-to-head explaining why this thing is an idiocy, but as citizens and people who should be the spearhead of the intelligence of this Italy. Think how small we are. Think how Italy is reduced if we are the tip of the diamond. It means we're in trouble. Excuse the word in dialect. It means we're in bad shape. So, let's play open cards -- this is absolutely no use at all. Perhaps it is better to make few clear laws, delete so many laws and try to do things for people, for them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u26	Madam President, Government, I am a little embarrassed because, in fact, I have been thinking all this time about whether we should intervene. Then I concluded that it's part of my homework. I quote Senator Calderoli from yesterday's report: It seems to me that you really opened Pandora's box. Nor has the cross-section of the content of the two measures been studied here. We have already talked about this on the previous occasion, but I would like to remind you of this issue once again, so that it remains in the proceedings that led to the creation of this monster. Senator Di Maggio said, again in yesterday's session: We are the only country in the world where a constitutional reform, instead of starting from Parliament's classrooms, starts from the Government. It's the only case in the world. Senator Airola, on the other hand: The reminder for all: it should have required the examination to be concluded before in the Commission to bring the text to the Assembly only later, but here we must always be succubs of the slogans and initiatives of a Premier who is taking our whole country. It is incredible that in thirty years of your governments we find ourselves at this point: to vote today this emeritus crap. Senator D'Alì intervened and said: If, after possible approval through the referendum (...) and then before the final ratification of this bill, the Senate of the Republic still existing, in limine mortis, should, for example, hesitate a motion of distrust, since the Constitution no longer provides for the Senate to distrust the Government, what will it do, Mr President? Will you allow the debate on a motion of distrust to carry out a Senate task no longer provided for in the Constitution? It would certainly open at least a strong constitutional dispute in this regard. And so for so many other things: for the formation of laws, which will no longer be the responsibility of the Senate. Will we continue to do so, even if it is no longer provided for in the Constitution? Senator Arrigoni: "Yeah, this reform is very likely to take the country to a dangerous ridge. It is antihistoric to insist on concentrating every decisive choice in the hands of a central power that presumes to know better than all what the common good is. Instead, we must focus on the freedom, responsibility and creativity of people, businesses, communities, social actors and territories, and therefore on decentralisation and autonomy. Senator Petraglia: Italicum gives the list of winners of the elections a shameful majority prize, according to which, with 40% of the votes taken, whatever the level of participation in the vote of the citizens, 54 percent of the seats are assigned or, better, an overwhelming majority, which hands Parliament into the hands of a single party and a single man. I'm counting on quotes. Senator Bulgarelli: "Constitutionalists have pointed out that the combination between the electoral system and this rewriting undermines the foundations of democracy and carries serious and concrete risks of authoritarian drift. Those who win the elections must, yes, be able to rule, but they cannot control everything. Senator Fattori: Mr President, I thank the few Members present. It was in fact the middle of the night. It is normal that we are few, because we are now at the final straight of this "cracker." Senator Molinari: "In this last passage I cannot fail to reiterate in future memory what might arise and I really hope that I am not a Cassandra: it will be a new Parliament, which will have nothing to do with the much praised balance contained in the so-called Senate of the local self-governments, although present in other democracies, but something that will resemble - alas! - to the Senate wanted by Caesar. Senator Tarquinio: It is a reform that, without offense, I have defined demential, that does not solve any problem, but aggravates them; a reform that offends the Senate, for what it represented in this country from 1948 onward, that offends the characters that have succeeded here, of every political color, the intelligences and cultures of people (...) who knew how to see far and managed to put together different positions, ideals and values, reaching a synthesis for me exceptional. Senator Amidei: "There is a will on the part of the majority of the Government to leave the Senate in limbo, without giving it a precise task, nor an institutional allocation. There will be an unelected Senate, composed exclusively of regional councillors - we know that there will also be 21 mayors - in which the power of territorial and corporate lobbyists will continue to grow. Senator Comaroli: "Trying to make a serious reform was possible and wasn't so difficult, given that the idea of amending the Constitution has matured for twenty years and that even the last reform included, for example, the reduction of costs and the reduction of senators and parliamentarians. So there is a desire to do, however, precisely because it is the reform of the Constitution, it must be carefully evaluated and shared, not decided by the Government. Finally, I quote what Senator Bignami said during the afternoon session of 22 July 2014: We know very well that equality and freedom are, to their extent, the main indicators of a society's degree of democracy. We know (...) that the fundamental characteristic of the democratic form is universal suffrage, which guarantees the expression of that equality and freedom which I have just mentioned. Primary and fundamental in the will of the constituent Fathers is the will of the people, which is expressed precisely by universal suffrage. Well, dear Senators with your suitcases, you should know that the greater the suffrage, the more free and equal men are. Where is this suffrage going? Demolished together with the cancellation of one of the two chambers thought of by our constituent Fathers, and its reduction to a political-cultural circle of mayors and advisers, to be armored with parliamentary immunity. Why is parliamentary immunity for those who are not parliamentary? Can you hear us? Are you listening to us? We are not all of the same party, we are not all of the same party; yet we are all saying the same thing. Here we have two points of view. All, those mentioned here but also others (I am sorry not to be able to quote them, but this morning, at 6 a.m., the shorthand report was not available), belonging to different political groups, we have different points of view, but we affirm the same thing. On the other hand, on my right you are all on the same side, saying the same thing. I wonder, then, which of the two has the greatest chance of being right. I leave the answer to posterity. The reform had to be done by everyone, because Italy belongs to everyone, because the Constitution belongs to everyone. We are in a democracy, in a social state, Let's remember that. That is what was said yesterday all day. What was in the papers today? What are the media talking about? Quiet, nothing, no headlines, no front page. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group]] Nobody e-mails us about it. Everything's quiet. You silenced the Italians medialy by making them believe that stepchild adoption is the evil of the world. What good is a child if I don't have the job? What good is a family if we're not free? Here is a battle to be waged: the battle for our freedom, for the freedom of thought, for the freedom of vote, for the respect of being a minority. I stress the perception of what is happening and more: how can there be a press silence on a matter that concerns everyone? Rewarded and defeated to this power. What power is it? This is an illegitimate power, dear Renzi. Have you been voted on? In Rome it is said (even if I am not a great connoisseur of the dialect): "But who voted for you?" It's a centralizing power: every act of your government has this thing in its underwear, that is, it has the will to centralize power, a power that silences. The Constitutional Court has forbidden you, it has forbidden this elected Parliament with an electoral law with some problems, to get out of the ordinary. What do we do? Let's do a constitutional reform! Does constitutional reform enter the ordinary? That is a question I ask. It's an unconscious power, because you don't know who it might go to. The story is unfortunately magistra vitae. It's a power now - alas! - without control. Is it possible that no one can impose on your will? What is the role of us senators? Have warranty function and control function. Well, we've already lost them all. We have lost them since you began to endorse every little step towards this absolute power, every little step in the direction of this disaster. Look at the newspapers that should have been on the front page: today we kill democracy, and instead they do not mention all this. [[Applause from Senator De Pin.]] I do not want to vote, I do not want to endorse this unfair method, I want to avoid this vote, and yet it is one of my tasks. It's a method that he uses, the one that forced all the rules and in many cases even swept them away. Other than Calamandrei! At this point I want to make a joke: "I'd go away." Where are you speaking? Beat it. We do not have the rapporteur here. What is the rapporteur's purpose? It is that of the mediator; the rapporteur must mediate between the Government and us senators. But in this case there is no need for mediator because he confused the word "middle" with "center," and this is a very deep mathematical problem because the mediator is not a centralizer, however you cannot expect this too. We have the mediator of nothingness, no rapporteur present. With all the respect and parliamentary friendship that binds me to Senator Finocchiaro, I can only abhor the uncomfortable position in which he finds himself today. Unfortunately, we know why we can no longer attract this Premier of ours, because, dear rapporteur, his virtues have no weight. He doesn't need to be smart. It doesn't count for him to be educated, and it doesn't matter that he's a lawyer with a lot of shit. You, dear ghost rapporteur, have the most uncomfortable position here. By now the epoch of the constituent Fathers is over, now begins that, to quote one of my colleagues, of the "prostitute fathers." That's how you choose power. This is how it centers, removing power, removing charges, removing dissidents, removing senators from the Commissions to reach the majority, gagging thinkers and filling themselves with courtiers and courtiers not dissenting. I want to venture and do Cassandra: in five years' time, perhaps less, we will have to discuss the need to abolish a sedate Senate, but capable of creating real confusion, also because it will be able to intervene again on the most important issue of parliamentary life (I am obviously referring to constitutional reform). Could it be a senate of the same color? Yeah, he can. There is a possibility that the Senate will have the same color because there is no respect for minorities, because it is not one of the Premier's objectives to respect the minority. Is this a sign of governability? No, this will be something that will turn against him, because we have to legislate not for our own interests, thinking about what will happen to ourselves, but we have to legislate thinking about what is right for everyone. Now I want to smile and share with everyone one of my meditations, one of my observations about roles, names and the way things are done. I am, and knows me, a woman who works and who has always worked and I believe, since Article 1 of our Constitution provides for this, that work is fundamental. So I have respect for all roles and jobs. The senator is a job, as it is also a job to be mayor, and it is a hard job. I didn't, but I've been close to some mayors and I know it's a very challenging job. Even doing regional counseling is a job. In fact, thanks to my role, I had the opportunity to meet many advisors and I saw that they work a lot, we work all three. To say that the senator from now on will do so the regional councilman and the mayor, ontologically means to say that if one of these three can do the work of the other, one of these does not work, because usually the work is whole and you can not do two jobs. If I'm a regional counselor, how can I be a senator? It is implicitly stated here that the senator is not a job and, I am sorry, that cannot be said. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli]] We will, therefore, like Cassandra, discuss in a few years an electoral law that will have definitively killed the representation; and we will complain, yes, as we have always done (because the Italians like to complain), and we will say terrible things all, disguising ourselves, as often happens. Today, however, the majority will vote for this filth. I want to say this first: reform is not a response to the crisis of democracy and representation, to the disorientation of parties and their historical function: it is the triumph of this crisis. We always confuse the cause with the effect. We should have worked on the dissemination of power and on promoting the political participation of the citizens and the centrality of Parliament, while on the contrary reform brings the crisis to the extreme consequences. We should have introduced direct democracy, not "direct" verb, to the Grillo, but "direct" adjective, to the podemos. It's going to be too late and I'm doing Cassandra again. I want to quote - indeed, you all know it, so I leave it to the record - the famous words attributed to Bertold Brecht. I quote them in part: First of all they came to pick up the gypsies and I was happy (...). Then they came to pick up the Jews (...). One day they came to pick me up, and there was no one left to protest. Well, I don't want to be this: I want to protest first. It's not out of the question. No. Whoever thinks that this evil centralization of powers is not random is wrong. Anyone who thinks it's possible to go back from tomorrow is wrong. Tomorrow it will be late, tomorrow the puzzle will be composed, a canvas woven with a praiseworthy mastery (this is the only praise I give to Renzi). The objective is not the good of the country, the objective is not the common good; the objective is to leave us immobile, powerless and freed from all forms of control and guarantee. The right hand doesn't know what the left hand does and in its case, the left hemisphere doesn't know what the right hand does. Here we are faced with an apparent schizophrenic game, a bipolar game that always points in the direction of the centralization of power. Everything will be in his power. Do you make a reformist vow? You may do so in the sense that you vote for the reforms, but you are also making a conservative one, in the sense that you are preserving your place. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). I'm done. That's the last sentence. But as long as we do not realize that we can say no, until we all take the courage to say no together, Renzi and his "taxists-carons" will leverage our weaknesses, will leverage our frailties, will leverage all the diabolical means they will have at their disposal. It is time to make it clear that this House can still, this House together can regain its dignity, this whole House can say no to this new reform. I shall vote no and my explanation of vote is also here. Otherwise have the courage, take it with all hands, and replace the term democracy with that of oligarchy. Do your job well: vote and be proud to have reduced the Senate to a bunch of puppets. [[Applause from Senators Bulgarelli and De Pin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tocci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u28	Madam President, the constitutional revision has aged before it is born. It is turned to the past, seals the present, says nothing to the future of the country. The most important decisions are postponed or hidden or denied. The reduction in the number of regions is postponed. The cancellation of the Senate is hidden. The reduction in the number of Members is denied. The relationship between the State and the Regions becomes more difficult and more conflicting, since both levels have defined exclusive competences, which cannot therefore find any mediation after the cancellation of the concurrent legislation. Overcoming the small regions, on the other hand, would have created macro-regions more suitable to cooperate with national policy and move around the European area. The government has promised to implement them with a forthcoming constitutional revision, with a resounding admission that a non-binding law is being passed today. The new legislative procedure is cumbersome. Conflicts of competence are increasing and new disputes are being brought to light at the Consulta. Palazzo Madama becomes a post-worker for local administrators, a prestigious Assembly that will try to regain the lost powers by using the association exchange with the Government. If it had to fall so low, it was more dignified to abolish it. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups]] In a single Chamber it was inevitable to define the counterweights of the majority system: qualified votes on fundamental rights, powers of initiative of minorities, control of government activity. Well-tempered monocameralism is preferable to a messy bicameralism. The clumsy propaganda about the costs of politics has been bogged down in Transatlantic. There is still an anomaly of a House of 630 members, which has no equal in any European Parliament. An assembly as large as it is weak, whose members owe everything to the appointment of the head of the party or to the increase of the seats associated with the election of the Premier. On the other hand, the number of Members had to be reduced and selected from one-name colleges, without recourse to the Lords of Preferences and the nominations of Italicum; the House's authority towards the Executive should have been strengthened. American democracy, while leading an empire, has never renounced the balance of power between government and Parliament. Why, then, did he lose so many opportunities? The lack of genuine reform has produced a very long text, a poor legislative bill, an unpleasant bureaucratic jargon. Just read, for example, the additional competences of the Senate defined - I quote - in the laws referred to in Articles 57, sixth paragraph, 80, second period, 114, third paragraph 117, fifth and ninth paragraphs, 119, sixth paragraph, 120, second paragraph, 122, first paragraph, and 132, second paragraph. Yes, it is written just like this: it looks like a thousandprorogues decree, and instead it is a constitutional piece: a scribble that offends the simple and intense Italian of the Constituents. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups and Senator Volpi]] From the way you speak I understand what you want, it suggests popular common sense: the sloppy form reveals the low political profile. The vice of origin consists in changing the Constitution to stabilize a Government otherwise without the electoral mandate. The Porcellum had to be changed immediately to give back the floor to the voters. Instead, the contingent political need prevails over every institutional guarantee, until the paradox of rewriting the second part of the Charter in an elected Parliament in illegitimate form. In Italy one does not govern to improve the State; one changes the State to strengthen the Government. On the contrary, the Constitutions govern politics because they are long lasting. On this principle, the reforms of the last two decades, which have always been approved against each other, have failed to prop up the governments that had lost the confidence of the voters. So Berlusconi did in 2005 and - alas! - also my share with Title V. We repeat all the mistakes already made by the right and the left, putting us even more enthusiasm today, until we ask for a personal plebiscite. President Renzi is the great conservative of the second Republic. It erects a monument to the ideologies of the twenty years just as they set throughout Europe. It all began in the 1990s, with the hopes of some kind of Italian Westminster model. Today bipolarism is also in trouble in that ancient English palace; it no longer exists in Spain, it is overwhelmed in France by the lepenesimo, it is sterilized by the broad understandings in Germany. The Italicum and the Boschi law are eager to keep him artificially alive, using the absolute premiered without counterweights: a minority of 20% of those entitled to vote wins the bench and imposes their will on the majority of the country. All this increases abstentionism and reduces consent to bipolar competition. Everywhere the old dialectic between parties is overwhelmed by the new divide between the elite and the people. European countries have become ungovernable due to excessive governance. One simple truth has been forgotten: in order to lead today's fragmented societies we need a wider consensus than yesterday; political classes must learn to convince people rather than reduce representation; majority prizes in the long run cannot surrogate voters who do not vote. The policy has been reduced to mere system administration. This led to the leadership of the Executives over Parliaments. But on the European horizon the great dilemmas of peace and war, of the limits and links between religion and politics, of the reception and rejection of migrants, of individual freedom and public ethics, of the technological power and of the intangibility of life, of economic development and of the duration of the planet return. They are not problems solved by the Commission, they are contemporary conflicts that need new cultural and political recognition and will only be possible in a new parliamentary democracy as we have not yet known it. The one of the past century was able to neutralize the conflicts between the State and the Church, the city and the countryside, capital and labour. Parliaments are still to be imagined capable of reconstructing the fractures of European civilization in the new century. The world before us is very different from that of the nineties. The institutional reforms of the Second Republic are now old tools. The constitutional reform for the Italian future has not yet been written. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups and the Senators De Pin and Liuzzi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u29	We greet the students and students of the institute "Leonardo da Vinci" in Fasano, in the province of Brindisi. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u30	Senator Crimi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u31	Madam President, gentlemen, I do not speak to you because it would be a waste of breath. Instead, I try to speak to the citizens, to those citizens who are following us from home and who will listen to or read these speeches one day. I'm talking about history, about that story that's gonna ask you to realize what you're doing sooner or later. At the beginning of this speech I want to make myself first of all spokesperson for some comments that have arrived to me through the network. Gabriele: "Wednesday last I found myself in front of the Constitution guarded in the Chamber and came the magon thinking of the sacrifice of our fathers martyred in war in their own countries to conquer every syllable written in that text. Before changing a single comma, we should reflect on what has cost our Constitutional Charter that has always been taken as a model in all countries of the world as an example of great legal and regulatory maturity. Bending it to the interests of reckless and corrupt politicians is an insult to the memory of fathers and the rights of every honest citizen and citizens will soon put a cross to wipe out this abomination. Nike writes: "Saying goodbye to the Constitution breaks in me something that gave me security and wisdom: sometimes it seemed to me too much to have been emanated by men and I think they are now turning. I do not believe that at the moment there are men or politicians so large that they can be allowed to touch the Constitution. Emanuele writes: How can a parliament make constitutional laws if the law that elected them has been declared unconstitutional? The President of the Republic, the guarantor of the Constitution, why is he ommissive? Giulio writes: "There is also to say that the signatures for the referendum increase from 500,000 to 800,000 and those for the bill of popular initiative from 50,000 to 150,000. The juice is always the same: take away power from the people and concentrate it more and more in the hands of a few people. Andrea: "Now it is clear that the reforms dictated the Freemasonry, which decided this destiny for Italy." Claudia: When some 5 Star MPs stood on the roof of Montecitorio I was underneath. With many others we have read many articles of the Constitution in the microphone and in the end we asked this question: "was it implemented?" And it was always a "no" coming from the square. Perhaps it can be an idea to repeat this thing only for some article during these speeches to remember what was done or implemented by the Constitution. Manuel: "Like any respectable regime, the control of citizens is feared." Massimiliano: "In the history books they will write that a government not elected by anyone has given a branch of parliament to the most inquisitive political class in the country and so also its immunity. Farewell democracy! Pasquale: "I will vote "no" to the referendum because the reform does not solve the bicameralism: it creates a Senate of the Regions that does not serve putting it in the hands of nominations. It does not reduce costs or, better, waste and gives enormous power to the Regional Councils instead of reducing it. Rita: In a democracy that respects the people must dictate laws, the people must elect their representatives, the people must establish the salary of politicians, the people must be sovereign and not servant. Josè: "In this fake democracy we have only the referendum ". Francesca: The President of the Republic should speak. Daniele: You have taken away the sovereignty, the work, the savings, the hope, the possibility of healing, all unconstitutionally, protected by the Presidents of the Freemason Republic or inadequate. We are waiting for you outside, in the polls, with the only power you have left us: say no to the constitutional referendum. Elizabeth writes: "Tell him that we have understood, because their arrogance and their sense of invulnerability have moved them to be too shameless and so we have understood their games and intents, which have nothing to do with the well-being of the people and not even of the nation. We have understood their drinking lies and their even more drinking motivations of such lies. We are now waiting for them at the door, at the door of the referendum, at the door of the courts, at the door of the squares, because they are the ones who have not understood that the power of power is nothing before the strength of the multitude of an entire people. 11:59 a.m. (Follows CRIMI). Gianluca wrote: "Although there is a need for some articles of the Constitution to be amended (but hopefully, by bringing them to the greater protection of citizens' rights) it is the moment that is wrong: the priorities in the needs of citizens at this time are others. For example, starting from the actual and immediate application of Article 36. It is only at the time of achieving the economic balance that some of the articles of the Constitution can then be discussed again. Andrea wrote: Now it is clear that the reforms dictated the Freemasonry that decided this fate for Italy. Fighting them will be very difficult if the government has such an ally, but it is mandatory to try with all our means. Concetta wrote: "The Constitution must not be reformed, it must be implemented." These are some comments I read and collected on the net. I couldn't read them all, because there were so many of them on this long night. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Today you will kill democracy in this country and you have not even had the courage to kill it with dignity, that is the thing that hurts even more. You do this as an unconstitutional parliament that you elevated to a constituent assembly, an elected parliament with an unconstitutional law. You do this with a text that makes water from all sides, with a text that is a crunch and is full of errors, a text that makes this fundamental document comparable to the regulation of a suburban condominium, with all respect for the administrators of the condominium, which perhaps write better. Professor Alessandro Pace, esteemed and well-known constitutionalist, defined this text as "a fascio." This is the word he used to define this text full of errors: fascia. This "something" is wrong because perhaps it does not even deserve to be called "reform" for the following reasons. This "something" favours governance over representativeness. The citizens will be less and less represented, less and less present, and Parliament will be more and more distant from reality, and more and more we will have only one man in command. I read the program of the Democratic Party, with which you introduced yourself to the citizens, which at the beginning of the third point reads: We must defeat the ideology of the end of the politics and prodigious virtues of a man only in command. We must defeat the ideology of the prodigious virtue of one man only in command: this was the program with which you presented yourselves to the voters and today you raise man only at the command as your point of reference. You fooled your voters first! You deceived them, you plotted a scam in every way. You really are conspiracy to your constituents! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This'something', which I am ashamed to call reform, eliminates the counterpowers outside the House and does not compensate them with internal counterpowers; de facto militarizes, with men expressing a single party, the organs of guarantee; reduces the power of legislative initiative of Parliament to the benefit of that of the Government, making the role of Parliament more and more succubous than that of the Executive; provides so many types of voting for ordinary laws that, as constitutionalists tell us, there will be disastrous consequences for the functionality of the Chambers; eliminates the electiveness of the Senate but leaves it, in a contradictory way, the legislative function and constitutional revision: either one or the other, or the Senate is elected and as such has the right to participate in the most important legislative processes, or if it is not elected, perhaps so much worth abolishing it altogether. This "something" irrationally undersizes the composition of the Senate, making the vote of the senators irrelevant at the meetings of the Parliament in common sitting: 100 senators and 630 deputies. Why 100 senators? This number 100 is not dictated by a logic, by a calculation, but by the simplicity of communication: it is easier to say 100 than other numbers, because that is how our President-in-Office of the Council, with twitter, thinks, and therefore 100 was easier to communicate. This text also undermines the proper performance of the senatorial functions, which would become part-time, of the functions of regional councillors and mayors. If you really wanted monocameralism, you should have finally shut this Senate down. But you couldn't do that, that's the point, because you had to prepare a parking lot for suspects and convicted people, a lung in which to park the regional councillors investigated. This new Senate will consist precisely of regional councillors, caste that generates caste, as you did for the Provinces instead of abolishing them. It will be the regional councillors, the most investigated and corrupt political class in Republican history, who will be parked after work, enjoying parliamentary immunity. But why not reserve a little place for some mayor to save? So we also put a mayor, one per Region, that the majority of that Region will be able to choose. And who will be the chosen one who can be projected towards parliamentary immunity? I already know that you will fight fiercely, because there are so many mayors investigated that they will have to go and play that role that only choose one to save will be difficult. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And of course he raises the stakes, he'll be the one he offers the most. I will end with an appeal, Madam President. As I said, I have addressed the citizens more than those present, but I appeal to my fellow Members in this House, to those who have approached us several times in the corridors over the last two years, who have whispered in the margins of the Commissions. You know that. I don't make a list of names because each of you knows it: some text messages or emails, some exchange of jokes in the corridors where you clearly said that this reform sucks you. You know this and you are responsible for this reform and you are the ones who will be asked to account. There has been talk of the cow market, but it seems disrespectful to me for cows. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , unconscious animals and victims of men. On the other hand, there are irresponsible, ignorant people here, and it is those who are going to vote for this reform today who are aware of the consequences. Those who tell us in the corridors that it sucks, but who will vote on it today will be the real ones responsible and there will be a time when history will ask you to account for this. I conclude, Madam President, by saying that I have read the Italian Constitution and in the end... you die! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u32	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u33	Madam President, I asked to speak in the general debate on the draft Constitutional Reform Act, today before the Senate for the second parliamentary resolution, to testify to the reasons for my vote in favour. Since I joined Parliament in 1983, the public debate on constitutional reforms, which began in the 1970s, has focused on overcoming bicameralism, which has been a constant feature of the debate and has been the subject of many attempts to revise it. In this connection, I recall the establishment of the Bozzi Commission in 1983 and the successive attempts made by Parliament over the past thirty years: the De Mita-Iotti Commission in the 12th legislature and the D'Alema Commission in the 13th legislature, in which it was only possible to reform Title V of the Constitution. I also recall the attempt at constitutional revision approved by the Houses in the 14th parliamentary term, but not confirmed by the referendum, as well as the attempts at constitutional revision initiated and not concluded in the 15th and 16th parliamentary term. Over the last thirty years, therefore, the most advanced reformist bodies that have gone through the debate on constitutional policy have decidedly turned towards a model of bicameralism differentiated, in line with the parliamentary models of other European constitutional systems, in which the second Chambers perform different functions compared to the Political Chambers and follow criteria of differentiated compositions. It is, therefore, a choice that is certainly not impromptu, nor in any way based on the claim to achieve a democracy at zero cost, because the costs of democracy cannot be considered harmful: this is a dangerous demagogy. Let us be careful, ladies and gentlemen, because history is full of courses and appeals, and it is all too easy to remember the anti-parliamentary controversy that made an extraordinary contribution to the advent of fascism. But the choice is not impromptu and - I repeat - is not linked to the issues of the cost of politics, as far as I am concerned, but the result of a long and in-depth reflection, which has its roots in the same debate in the Constitutional Assembly. It reveals an awareness of the incompleteness and, in some respects, of the weakness of the choice made in favour of a perfect bicameral system, despite many authoritative members of that Assembly, among whom I would like to mention Constantine Mortati, expressed themselves in favour of a differentiated bicameralism. While the Political Chamber should have represented the indistinct representation, that is, the representation of the nation as a whole, the other Chamber should have offered a different channel of expression of representation, bringing to a central level diversified instances and interests, in particular those attributable to the territory. There is evidence of this debate in the current Constitution itself. Just read Article 57 of the Constitution which states, in the first paragraph, that the Senate is elected on a regional basis. It is certainly necessary to be aware that the text, now under examination by the Senate, is the result of a complex and articulated parliamentary process, which began in April 2014, and is not without its criticality. Firstly, the nature of the second Chamber remains uncertain, both as regards some of its functions and as regards its composition. With regard to the latter aspect, the composition of the body is based, as is well known, on an indirect electoral system: it will be the regional councillors who will elect the senators from among the members of the Regional Council itself and from among the mayors of the Region. At second reading, an important corrective was introduced to the Senate, which provides that indirect election should take place in accordance with the choices made by voters when renewing regional councils, thus anchoring the choices of the advisors to the popular will. There is a great deal of regret for me for not trying more courageously to inspire, even within a system of indirect election, well-known constitutional models. I refer, in particular, to the French model, in which senators are elected with an indirect electoral system, but where the active electorate is attributed to a broad audience of subjects, which gives the body a strong democratic legitimacy. As for the new functions assigned to the Senate, certainly qualified and open to possible developments that only experience will be able to confirm (in this sense it will be very important to establish the Senate and the connection between the Presidencies of the two Chambers), i.e. evaluation of public policies, verification and implementation of the laws of the State, control over the work of the public administrations, and their European projection, if well valued, they will be able to allow the Senate to be effectively, as well as a liaison body with the local self-governments, even - if not above all - a Chamber of interlocution with the Community institutions. A greater effort could be made in relation to the participation of the second Chamber in the legislative process. I know that President Finocchiaro has devoted a great deal of his energy to this end. The system defined by the new Article 70 of the Constitution foreshadows a system that could make the procedure for the approval of laws less fluid and favour possible conflicts between the two Chambers, since the procedures are diversified according to the object and type of the law, criteria that - as can be understood - can be the subject of different interpretations and therefore feed recourses to the Constitutional Court for vices in proceeding with the laws. As already emerged during several parliamentary passages, critical elements can also be found in other articles of the reform, not directly related to the issue of overcoming bicameralism equal. I am referring to the way in which the President of the Republic was elected, on which I spoke at second reading, and I am helping to ensure that the final decision - I have tried to do so - was as far as possible directed towards maintaining the independence and third-party features of which the Head of State - in the form of parliamentary government - cannot be deprived. Other criticisms, partly shared, have been made of the changes made to Title V of Part Two of the Constitution, concerning the establishment of the legislative powers of the State and the Regions. The possible centralist twist impressed on the order, especially with the inclusion of the so-called "premium clause," which allows the State to intervene, in the presence of certain conditions, on matters reserved for regional legislative competence, could further mortify the already strongly suffering regionalist authorities. However, it must be acknowledged that the intervention on that part of the Constitution has become necessary to correct some incompleteness and criticalities that the constitutional reform of 2001 has shown in recent years, so much so as to fuel a wide dispute before the Constitutional Court. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, any criticism does not seem to me to win over the reasons which lead me to give a favourable opinion on the text of the reform under consideration. We can no longer wait, as the President of the Republic, Giorgio Napolitano, has pointed out on several occasions. Too many were the failed attempts. A failure, again this time, could fuel an irreversible spiral of public distrust of the ability of political forces to reform the institutions. Moreover, it is to the citizens that we give the final responsibility for adopting this reform, in accordance with a clear and transparent procedure. Parliament has decided on a path, which the Italians will confirm or not. The Renzi Government has pushed this reform process and it is right that it has linked it and somehow links its destiny. But the Italians will have to choose not on the basis of misleading customizations, but on the merit of a reform that has been waiting for too long. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senator Finocchiaro. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u34	Senator Gibiino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u35	Madam President, this is a reform that we do not like and do not like. I would have been more frank, taking advantage of a will of the Italian people and of the whole Parliament, in saying that it would have been appropriate to arrive at a more streamlined, faster monocameral system; then if the House in the future were to adopt the system of operation of the current Senate it would be better since the current one - I say it for those who have not attended it - is not valid. Abolishing the Senate would have been right; it would have saved hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros and would have given clarity and transparency in the legislative process. Instead, we have reduced ourselves to a reform very similar to that of the Provinces that we continue to call in this way but that in reality no longer foresee direct election but indirect one, they no longer have economic resources, they participate in the dynamics of the national budget for which what they collect is paid in Rome, contrary to what happened before, and they no longer provide services. What's the future Senate gonna do? Nothing. It will cost as much as the present. It would be better if he were no longer called the Senate, so as not to create confusion with the body currently in office. The Senate of the future will have a varied and variable composition. In fact, beyond what my colleague Mr Casini said, that is, the indirect or medialy indirect election to which citizens will participate to elect those who will have to come here to Rome to also play the senator role, there is no doubt that as regional elections take place Region by Region the composition will be variable. But that doesn't matter, because it will be put back to secondary autonomy the ability to request a revision of a regulatory process that, however, will have to be examined by the House. Perhaps that will also be an opportunity for someone to take a little stroll for someone to come and see the Members who, in fact, will legislate. Then there will still be a conflict of competences with the State-Regions Conference that will have to confront the Government through the Presidents and Vice Presidents of the Region. We do not like this reform because, in the meantime, the other reform has been launched, that of the electoral system, Italicum, which, by regulating the election of future Members of the House, in fact, with this system, will allow those who reach 25, 26 or 28 per cent to have 55% of the seats, that is, the majority of Parliament. To this is added a reform that, on the way, we did not think could be launched. I'm talking about RAI. This, which is the representation of the citizens, the people and the expression of Parliament, becomes a part of the Government. It begins through its Director General and the CEO to influence the masses with a communication that derives exclusively from the Government. And, then, we have a House representing the government, a Senate that doesn't work and a public radio and television system that will communicate to citizens what is right and what isn't. In these circumstances, it seems to me that this reform cannot be voted on at all. It doesn't produce anything: it only does harm and confusion. It is another piece of the institutions that is leaving; another piece of democracy that will no longer exist, in favour of a monarchy of the future. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u36	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u37	Madam President, Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, these days I have been thinking - and this has been repeated several times in this House - about how unfair life can be. There is a man who would have had every right to be a guest of honour in this House today and who, instead, like Moses, who fell before reaching the promised land, could only glimpse the fruit of his work, of an entire existence dedicated to the intrigue and the fight against democracy. I refer, of course, to the venerable master of the P2 loggia, Licio Gelli, who died in Arezzo last December. Anyone who reads the "Plan of democratic rebirth" he has conceived will not fail to notice the disconcerting relevance of that document. The points in which Gelli's program was articulated have all been realized. At first we took control of the entire media system; then we introduced an unnatural bipolarism; finally - and this is what is happening today - we want to subvert the Constitution born of the Resistance. With the approval of the reform the last seal will be given to the Piduist project. The seriousness of what is happening should be in everyone's eyes. The abolition of the elective Senate, which follows the abolition of the Provinces and the introduction of an electoral system - Italicum - with a scam character, as it aims to predetermine the outcome of the vote, is a very hard blow to our democracy. We'll all be less free from tomorrow. Italy will cease to be a parliamentary Republic, in order to become a sort of populist monarchy, in which the President of the Council will be able to appoint an absolute majority of parliamentarians, the majority of judges of the Constitutional Court, can decide who will be the President of the Republic, can decide whether and when to change the rules of the electoral game, can remove, as has already happened in Rome, the mayors who are not liked, mocking the electoral response. All the powers will in essence be transferred to the Executive, which, in turn, will be hands and feet tied to the European and Atlantic authorities, who already direct the life of our country. It should be remembered that when, in 2006, the then Premier Berlusconi and the beautiful company decided to put their hands on the Constitution to grant more powers to the Premier at the expense of Parliament, our current Premier, Renzi, who at the time was President of the Province of Florence, openly and firmly stood for the no to the referendum because - they are his words - it would have been a big affront to the Constitution, which would have come out in overwhelmed, especially because that reform would have conferred (heard) powers so wide that there was no other example in any other democratic state. That was nine years ago. It happened, because the Premier wasn't him. In truth, our Constitution has already been violated and distorted by the amendment of Article 81, which introduced the obligation to balance the budget, an obligation that has done nothing but produce a series of ecatomi, made of austerity and indiscriminate cuts to public expenditure. This is how university enrollments have dropped dramatically, that school building is literally falling apart, that many hospitals have closed their doors, that many people have lost their jobs and that they are preparing to retire at 70, if everything goes well, and after a life of hardship. This is what should be eradicated from our Constitution. We welcome the debt, when the first objective is infrastructure investment and when it allows, in terms of the principle of subsidiarity, the municipalities to really manage the territory and to have the opportunity to carry out an expansionary policy of public action, in support of social needs. There is conflict, therefore, between those who govern by leveraging economic crises and the blackmail of public debt, to justify the nefariousness of a policy based only on unbridled liberal capitalism and a balanced budget that makes economic cohesion and competitive freedom dependent on the social policies on which our State should be founded. We must understand and acknowledge that today, more than ever, our economy is in the hands of the banks: the states are forced to turn to them, which are the only money emissaries left. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Pin, please finish your speech. DE PIN (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). If I cannot conclude, I would ask that the remaining part of my speech be left to the record. They have deprived us of our monetary sovereignty, determining that only what can be spent from taxation will be spent, according to our fate in the hands of the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank, all of which are not elected institutions. I shall conclude by handing over the remaining part of the written text of my speech to the Presidency and stressing that I too will vote against it. I hope so much, however, in a people's uprising for no to the referendum. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E) and Senator Barozzino]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u38	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u39	We welcome the students of the All-inclusive Institute "Guido Marcelli" of Foiano della Chiana, in the province of Arezzo, who are today visiting the Senate. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u40	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u41	Madam President, the Constitution is the compass to follow, political and above all moral. "Behind every article of the Constitutional Charter (...) are hundreds of young people dead in the Resistance. So the Republic is our conquest and we have to defend it, no matter what it costs. But we must also defend it from corruption. Corruption is an enemy of the Republic. And the corrupt must be struck without any extenuating, without any mercy. And to give solidarity, for reasons of friendship or party, means to become accomplices of these corrupted ones. It is necessary to be worthy of the Italian people. He is not worthy of this people who performs acts of dishonesty and must be struck without any consideration. Woe if someone, out of friendship or party solidarity, should support these corrupt and defend them. In this case, party friendship becomes complicity and omerty. The ban must be given to these dishonests and to these corrupts who offend the Italian people. They offend the millions and millions of Italians who, in order to live honestly, impose serious sacrifices on themselves and their families. Therefore, the law is relentless, inflexible against the protagonists of these scandals, which give a truly degrading example to the Italian people. Some of the words I have just read have been spoken by Sandro Pertini in his year-end message of December 31, 1979, in his appeal to young people. Pertini refers to parties. Today we can call them parties, now considered one of the deepest evils of this martyred country. Here, in the Roman palaces, their exponents stand out between a fake opposition in the Assembly, the whispered stunts in the ears and the pressure on those who try to follow a little whisper of dignity. Citizens, you know what I am talking about: the Democratic Party, in order to make its Members digest this indigestible bite, has kicked off the big market of the Presidencies and Vice-Presidents of the Commissions. For this reason, the renewal of the Commission's positions has been postponed until after the discussion of this 'cracker', which is used as a bargaining commodity. The totobets are open. To know who folded his head, who sold himself, you should wait Thursday. Someone still resists; someone has already lowered his head. I ask those who resist to do so again and not to lose their dignity. This is only a passage of what happens in these palaces, in the palaces of power, but the script has always been the same for decades, the same food to feed public opinion. The usual great strategies of numbered and nameless pawn transhumances, because that's what you are. It is a squalid practice to be considered just numbers and not people. It is clear that the priority for the Democratic Party and for the Brancaleone army of allies that it carries is to give the blow of grace to the only valid document that we have left: the Italian Constitution. In this festival of madness, every single modification seen in an overall framework shows a clear design: we want to demolish popular sovereignty and allow a summary, unjust construction of a system that democratic only has the name. A dangerous leap backwards that reminds so much of the crisis that prepared the ground for the settling of totalitarianism. That same crisis which, at the time, allowed the establishment of a dominion that destroyed the political capacity of the individual, removed him from public life and canceled the critical groups and aggregations of the social fabric in the name of a single word: power. History, in this, is a teacher. It is known that in times of crisis the people are taken advantage of to approve, with systems of distraction of mass, centralized plans architected with skillful blows of hand. And that's what's happening now. The Senate, which today is a functioning branch of Parliament that carries out its functions in full, will become a hostel, a political parking lot, where mayors and advisers will be stationed who, in fact, will have to equip themselves with the gift of omnipresence. The functions of the future members of the Senate are designated in a negative, inverse manner. In fact, the new members will not approve, amend or reject the laws and will no longer be called to express the vote of confidence. The Senate, therefore, will be removed from the trust relationship with the Government, managed exclusively by the only remaining branch of Parliament. No function of political direction but, above all, no control over the work of the Government. This is serious. This Senate will act as a voyeur, being able to allow mere observations on documents or documents to be examined by the Chamber, an activity that is equivalent to peering through the hole of the lock without being able to enter the house, in his own house. But what is the point of creating a parliamentary structure where there is an over-representation of regional and local executive bodies if there is already an executive power and it is constituted by the Government? What is the point of keeping an organ empty of its functions, debased and rendered useless? In all this, then, the House will become a mere extension of the strong arm of the Government, in spite of the balance of the powers of the State and the weights and counterweights of which constitutionalist experts speak. And if in the only remaining branch of Parliament you will come to create splits within the majority party, just make healthy ostracism: cut off some heads, as you are used to doing, and the game is done. The three powers of the State, in fact, will intertwine to become a single monolithic power in the hands of one man, namely the Premier. We want to reduce the power of voters and, with it, the sovereignty of the individual units that make the identity of this nation, that is, the citizens. In a context in which the supervisory and control bodies are lacking, democratic guarantees will shredding and will put gags at the voice of individuals, distorting their determinations. Repeat that all this is aimed at saving resources. False! Liars! The system can be modernised through simple passages, such as the halving of the salaries of every single Member of the House and Senate or the abolition of public funding to parties, all good practices of which we could always teach you the work. We are proof of all this. Where have the aims of simplification and reduction of the economic increases that you so much pride yourself on? What we are talking about is not a bad dream, it is not a dystopic vision of the future: it is what is happening to our country. That's what you're making happen. And all this is dramatic. Would Pertini ever let that happen? Would he have allowed this crazy system? Would it have helped banks rather than citizens? I remember the Etruria Bank scandal. It is not a distant episode, even if the press enslaved to power has made sure not to talk about it anymore. The responsibilities are still present and heavy; they weigh on the shoulders of the thousands of families who have lost their savings. Them. What about us? We do not forget how the speaking skills of Minister Boschi have been able to enchant you. Only the chicken-hogs of the Renziano continue to be taken, but in the meantime the problems remain. What does it matter if the bondholders and the swindled shareholders can no longer compete against the former directors of the four failed banks? What does it matter if we risk finding these same managers unable to drive any other bank? What does it matter if the banking oversight and control system has been and continues to be bankrupt? What does it matter if Miss Trusted Dad Boschi, the former Vice President of Banca Etruria, came out of this shameful scandal with the talents of his beloved daughter, formed in the prestigious school of Leopolda? What does it matter if today only one in two graduates gets a job after obtaining the title, or is they forced to move abroad to seek it? What does it matter if taxes choke small businessmen and companies, putting thousands of workers on the street; if the people are hungry, desperate, demeaned in their sovereignty? This pseudo-reform risks irreversibly exacerbating Italy's institutional and cultural decline. This "schiform" consists of a semblance of unicameralism, imperfect: a Parliament of appointed, closely controlled and directed by the Government. The 5 Star Movement strongly opposes all this, just as we oppose even more strongly this sort of Renzian obscurantism, made of gifts, corrupts, mafias, 15,000 euro Rolex. We are opposed to an idea of a state conceived as an ATM, to which, if necessary, when a family bank fails, one can freely draw. You must starve ISIS, not the Italian people! We oppose the failure of the pact of trust between institutions and citizens, today betrayed and viciously raped in their sovereignty, to make room for a new Masonic dictatorship. That's the truth. You must be worthy of the Italian people and you are not worthy of them. You're proving it. I'm going to conclude. I hope a transformation of this painful fragment of a story written with several hands in a coming victory. We will defend democracy and the Constitution. If you want peace prepares the war: we are preparing ourselves, we are ready, we will go ahead, no matter what it costs. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Galimberti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u43	Madam President, today, in this House, the majority would like to send to the attic the Constitution that represented the backbone and armor of our Republic, which ensured the counterweight of the powers of the State guaranteeing the citizens a true democracy, which allowed our institutions to adapt, perhaps not always perfectly, to the contemporary needs. A work that bears the signatures of statesmen such as De Gasperi, Saragat, Calamandrei and Togliatti who today, unfortunately, could give way to this institutional reproach that of democratic principles has very little. I do not dispute the need to change the rules to ensure a truly more efficient state for the good of the country. Certainly we must rationalise the legislative processes and improve the mechanisms that promote the governability of the country. The limits and competences of the State and the Regions must also be defined. For these very reasons I endorsed the reform project, convinced that for such an important change it was necessary to ensure the wider involvement of the parliamentary arc, in full respect of the constituent spirit. A simple concept, clear to all, but unfortunately not shared by the Government and its majority, of which it is an expression that in recent months has wanted a continuous demonstration of strength towards a Parliament now reduced to mere scribbler of the Executive, constantly humiliated and gagged, deposed of its own legislative power. We are still being subjected to humiliations, forced to hold a quota debate; we are being distracted by the authority of this House and the freedom of its members. With the excuse of approval in a short time we do not want to allow the necessary debate that could move consciences and form an opinion, perhaps different, from that man only in command. We must not, therefore, run for reasons of urgency, but rather for the fear that democracy, what our present Constitution guarantees, may overpower that authoritarianism provided for by the new reform but today de facto already implemented by the Government. An imposition resulting from the megalomania of this majority, more attentive to chasing the sensationality of the news and a tweet of tendency than to the realization of sensible political choices. Nothing new. The whole path of this measure is studded with similar outrages: from the replacement in the Commission of some colleagues of majority not in line with the unique thought imposed by the leadership of the PD, to the changes of the text, always wanted by the leadership of the PD, to the forced calendarization last week, imposed once again by the leadership of the PD. And let me say that we could replace the term "directive" with "directive" which would perhaps be more appropriate. A trend that will only worsen, given the constitutional changes envisaged by this reform, beginning with the reduction of the Senate to a simple armchair of representatives of Regions and autonomous. It will only have secondary functions of control, without ever contributing to the legislative process, when instead the majority of the Western world retains a bicameral system as a maximum guarantee of democracy for the citizens. So humiliating the Senate does not even have an economic value, because the miserable savings will be compensated for with additional costs at the head of the Regions (and always about public money we talk about). The weakening of the Senate means that all legislative powers will be at the head of a single Chamber. Thanks to the combination of constitutional reform and electoral law, as a result of the disproportionate majority prize, the party that wins the next elections, while not representing the majority of Italians, will have control of the Chamber of Deputies, will elect the President of the Republic on its own, will grant confidence to the Government and the President of the Council alone, will appoint the Presidents of all the Authorities and directly and indirectly control the majority of the members of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Council of the judiciary alone. It is the end of that check and balance on which democracy is founded. Legislative power, executive power, judicial power in the hands of one party: it is the end of freedom. In the light of all this, I wonder once again where the constitutional flame that burned in the words of President Mattarella ended when, on 20 October 2005, as a Member of Parliament, he hurled himself against the reform of the Berlusconi Government, which, contrary to the proposal now under discussion, in addition to guaranteeing governance, also provided for indispensable mechanisms of institutional balance. Just now that it represents the highest authority to guarantee the Constitution, why, President Mattarella, is it silent in the face of such an attack on our freedoms? Well to her and to her colleagues of majority, effective and in some way enlarged, I would like to recall the words spoken by Don Sturzo in this Senate on 27 June 1957: "The Constitution is the foundation of the Republic. If it falls from the heart of the people, if it is not respected by the political authorities, if it is not defended by the Government and by Parliament, if it is tampered with by the parties, the hard ground on which our institutions are manufactured and anchored our freedoms will fail. I hope that these words, which are still echoing in this House so strong and current, will awaken the consciences of all those present to put the country's future ahead of the miserable political game. With today's vote the Senate could once again mortify not only itself, but the whole country, writing one of the poorest pages in the history of Italian institutions. I will never associate myself with such outrage; I will never write my name among those who have damaged the freedom of the Italians and I will emphasize it with my vote against, hoping that in the same way all those who can act in freedom of conscience will vote. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senator Council]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Chiti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the text before us has not been modified in the House of Deputies. Therefore, unlike the first project, I confirm, as at the previous reading last autumn, my vote in favour. During the previous reading I explained the reasons for my consent. Overcoming the bicameralism of equality is a necessity for our democracy and I think that failure to do so would give a definitive blow to the credibility of politics in our country, in spreading across Europe the populisms that challenge representative democracy and the future of the European Union itself. The overcoming of equal bicameralism is now taking place, after the changes we made in the Senate last time, on grounds that are acceptable to me in substance. I refer first of all to the competences entrusted to the Senate, to the maintenance of equal bicameralism on the revision of the Constitution and referendums and to a major role of the Senate in the control of public policies and government appointments, tasks that can be of paramount importance in the relationship with the European Union and with the system of regions and local self-government. Of course, as always in democracy and in the reform of the institutions, the tasks must then be carried out, but to me it seems wrong and perhaps the result of an unupdated parliamentary culture that it is considered, for example, that functions of control over public policies or government appointments are something not relevant to a House. With regard to the subject of a more overall balance in the democratic system, I would like to point out that the procedures for the election of the President of the Republic, although it would have been desirable for me to have a more precise closing rule that we have not found, have removed this election from the force of a single party or a majority. From this point of view, I was amazed by Senator Quagliariello - I say this because I esteem him and have a cordial relationship with him - when yesterday he used the election of the President of the Republic as one of the reasons for his taking away, at least as a symbol of choice, in this passage of the vote to the Senate. Thus for the provision that the Senate elects the three judges of the Constitutional Court autonomously. These aspects, with the corrections that we have introduced, are, in my view, a step forward too. So, as far as the referendum is concerned, it refers to propositional and directional referendums. I am amazed that in the debate the speeches I have heard here or on television have not clearly highlighted the implementation of these instruments which have been introduced. This is correct, they must now be implemented, but the propositive and guiding referendums are a significant choice in the relationship between the institutions of democracy and citizens at a time when representative democracy needs to make its own and complementary moments and instruments of direct participation. Finally, for me, the source of legitimacy on which the Senate is based has been and remains decisive, namely the fact that regional councillors and senators will be chosen by the citizens. It is an innovation, also this, introduced in the previous passage to the Senate and confirmed in the House. Of course, I also believe that there are aspects for me, from my point of view, less convincing and I recalled them last time: non-bicameralism equal to the great ethical-political issues (I think and fear that we will understand it only in the coming years if this will be a risk of division and opposition in our country); the reduction, which I too had proposed with other colleagues, of the number of Members, the institutional location, that is, in which House, of the senators of presidential nomination, no longer for life but still elected for seven years, of the former Presidents of the Republic or, as my colleague Micheloni recalled, of the elected in the foreign college. However, I believe that the issues I have now referred to are certainly relevant, as are some aspects of the new Title V, but they are not prevalent, because of their weight, in order to make the reform process fail or to lead to the failure of the process: they exist, from my point of view - for others perhaps not - but I do not think that their weight can now be considered prevalent with respect to the landing place and the outcome of the reform process. Moreover, I too would have seen other solutions, as President Casini has just recalled: a rigorous Bundesrat model, that is, the Bundesrat as such (but it also involves a form of government and electoral law), or an overall and authentic French model, but - I would like to say to Senator Casini - this too not simply for the way the Senate is elected in France (the narrower body and competences), but also for the way it is elected, with a double-shift system and single-member colleges, the National Assembly. I want to say then that these elements, which are there, do not, however, lead me, as I said, to assume in conscience the responsibility of not supporting the approach of a path on which I think a significant part of credibility is played, not of one or the other political part, but of politics in our country. I do not want, in this speech, to go back to controversy with the parliamentary groups or with colleagues from other groups who, from their point of view, are opposed to the draft reform. In me there is a regret, which I consider to be a defeat for everyone: everyone can vary the burdens of responsibility, but I think it is a defeat for everyone to have failed to give life to a more widely shared reform. I would have liked a reform that would have marked, with the same course of the referendum (which however there will be and is a choice, it is not only a fact due to the numbers, and will give the citizens the last word on the reform), a new beginning in mutual recognition and between the parties and a reconstruction of trust between parties and citizens. I fear, hearing the tones and arguments of many speeches, that the referendum itself will lead not to a point of confrontation and a high moment of democracy for a comparison of merit on the different evaluations of the reform, but to the risk of a frontal political contrast that I do not think would be desirable. On the other hand, the path of delegitimization or of offense, even if done in a cordial way, does not highlight the strength of ideas, but rather their weakness and, above all, does not reconstruct a confidence in the relations between citizens and institutions. It says a proverb that sowing wind produces storm: storm, and not more advanced coexistence. Nor can it be argued that the Constitutional Court's ruling on the electoral law, still in force in 2013, would prevent Parliament from carrying out reforms (it should deal only with ordinary issues, then determining which they are). Is it ordinary to elect the judges of the Court? Is it ordinary to elect the Presidents of the Republic? It seems to me a path that does not make much sense and, above all, it is not the truth. If we do not tell each other what corresponds to the truth, it is difficult to rebuild something with the citizens. As I want to note, in conclusion, the attitude of colleagues from Forza Italia when expressing dissatisfactions, points of criticism, which lead them to raise their tones and the level of confrontation to testify their no to the reform. Even they talk about an attack on freedom and democracy. I think, however, that citizens will not follow this path, because the people who decide have as much awareness as we do about things. I repeat, I would remain on the subject, but above all, how do these colleagues justify voting for the reform when the innovation I referred to was not there? So today they vote because innovations are unsatisfactory or inconclusive, but they have already voted when they were not there. Just as they voted in favour of Italicum, when some of us have raised some reservations with regard to it, which were reservations not only, as Senator Quagliariello said yesterday, related to the possibility of introducing into the ballot the realization of a coalition, but also to the fullness of representation (and this aspect must be kept in mind, and is not secondary) compared to the blocked capilists. Finally, what will happen in the coming months is very important, from here to the referendum. I have in mind an editorial by Professor Ainis on the "Corriere della Sera" of 14 January last, in which I found myself, as arguments, with respect to my evaluations. Professor Ainis said that measures are needed to speed up and improve the implementation of the approaches contained in the reform. He quoted different ones, but among the first there was the law for the election of senator councilors. Some of us have already made proposals (the first signatory is Mr Fornaro) for the electoral law to give concrete form to the fact that the citizens will choose and designate future senators. If this, or other proposals that may be, are brought to life immediately and the proposals are framed (somehow, more cannot be done, but there can be incardination and confrontation), if this situation is already in place during the referendum and if, as I think, the referendum will approve the reform, the commitment to implement the reform will be effective and rapid. I do conclude, Madam President. I say to some of my colleagues with whom I have made some road traits (for example, Mr Micheloni, whose speech I heard this morning), that on our journey towards reform of the Constitution positions have interwoven, united, sometimes divided, as is normal, because each of us refers to our own convictions. I think that between us, not only within the PD, but between us senators and parliamentarians, first of all there must be respect, all the more so - I would say - when there is a legitimate dissent. Faced with passages of such great importance, even more so for everyone, the theme arises, which is not simple and which is also recalled in texts of political culture, of the relationship between the ethics of values, that is, their ideal convictions, and the ethics of responsibility, that is, the points of balance, listening, research, patient construction of convergences and - if you want - compromises, that are not blocked by personal absolutes, because this allows us to make decisions, to make choices that maintain consistency with the principles, those indispensable, that guide us. If you do not make this effort, you can remain either in the noble, serious witness, but that you do not build concrete works and solutions, or you can fall into a pragmatism without ideals, which can also become cynical. There is, of course, no automatism that clearly marks where the ground is, the boundary on which the ethics of values and that of responsibility meet. Everyone to define this ground must follow his own reflection, his own conscience, assume the duty of a choice of which to respond. For me personally this border and this ground for meeting in the reform has been realized with the innovations that have been introduced and that I have recalled. I respect those who do not believe that they are sufficient or satisfactory, if on the substance they are arguing and on the merits; for me they make the reform project able to be supported; then the commitment must be to implement, after the referendum, the fundamental innovations contained in it. That is the commitment and conviction that accompanies my positive vote. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u46	Senator Catalfo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u47	Madam President, I would like to begin by imagining the thoughts and speeches of the next senators in the Chamber in which we are present at the moment: I am a senator of the Republic appointed thanks to the former President of the Council Matteo Renzi. Who was supposed to say that? I am one of the many Italian regional councillors who now sit with me on the ranks of this Senate. There's a hundred of us. Wow, what a chance! Who was to say that a multi-stakeholder like me would arrive here, sitting in the red of these scrabbles where the first senators of the Republic sat; I escaped beautifully! - thinks the senator by rubbing his hands - "They also gave me immunity." He then turned to his fellow senator, a regional adviser who was also appointed to hold this office, and told him: Do you know those interests we have with that entrepreneur? Well, now with immunity, no one's touching us! Then the business we have with those people who run services for the disadvantaged are big and cover all the national territory: even those we can favor. And that work, the one I was telling you about, that great work will bring us billions. You know we can change the Constitution, my friend? Do you know that article in the Constitution, Article 3, which says that "it is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of an economic and social order, which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person and the effective participation of all workers in the political, economic and social organization of the country"? I thought we could take that word off, "de facto." Do you know how many doors will open for our business? How much money can we recover to distract them in works that please us the most? People like that will have to be at our disposal. We will manage politics and the economy. We'll run the press. Freedom will be ours, only ours! "But didn't Mattei introduce him that "de facto"?" - the colleague asks him - "Mattei who? I don't know who Mattei is! Don't waste my time. I don't know who this chick is. The important thing is what we can get and manage by removing only two words: "de facto." So, in fact, the free will only be us! And rub your hands again. Here, this is a brief glimpse of what will be the disaster wanted by this government. We have reached the final vote on this which I like to call constitutional "deformed." During its long iter we were able to observe the action of this Government: variable majorities, with Nazarene outbuildings seasoned by changes of the coat. Last in the series, the group of managers led by Verdini at the last parliamentary passage here in the Senate. But let us talk about the merit of the reform, its content, its weaknesses and the trascichi that this reform will bring with it into the constitutional balance. That's where we can actually put our hands in our hair. The first fundamental objection is that declared by some constitutionalists (and repeatedly reiterated in this House during the course of the process), who believe that, after the judgment n. l of 2014 of the Constitutional Court, this Parliament is not fit to undertake such a demanding reform process. In democracy the sovereignty is of the people and not of the PD assembly; it is the people who elect their representatives. With the abolition of the direct election of the representatives of the citizens in the Senate of the Republic, it will in effect be a long step backwards in time, precisely when the passive electorate belonged to few and was reserved only to those who met certain requirements of power. And that's what you want. In the reform project, proposed by a government chaired by an appointed, the members of the Senate will be chosen on the basis of a hybrid mechanism, between the accumulation of posts and the restricted elections, where the voters in practice are only the holders of other important public political positions (unions and regional councillors). Another grain, another hybrid that you have produced in the text, is precisely Article 116 of the Constitution, contained in Title V. The regions may see themselves donated by the State, other forms and special conditions of autonomy, on justice, education, tourism and cultural goods, but provided that they are in a position of balance between revenue and expenditure. Even here you have bypassed the obstacle and have not really addressed the issue. With regard to the field of work, we did not want to learn anything from the lesson given us by the reform of Title V. In fact, the need for an organic structuring of active labour policies clashes, again this time, with the fragmentations that this reform will cause (semi-reform). Ensuring that active labour policies can be delegated to regional competence will, once again, lead to an even greater increase in regional disparities. There is a need, especially in this case, for a common plan both for the organization of offices and for the planning of labour policies; only in this way will we finally be able to aim for convergence between regions and territories. Abolish perfect bicameralism means irreversibly altering Parliament's legislative capacity; and you will be responsible for it. The current government explains that by eliminating bicameralism there would be considerable savings for the state's coffers. However, this saving, which is far from significant, would only be for the functions of the Senate and not for its costs, which in fact remain almost the same. Its abolition will affect the democratic development of our country. The prediction of the constituent Fathers of the bicameralism, in fact, was expressed precisely for fear of a possible future authoritarian turn of the institutions. We risk bringing Italy, paradoxically, into a situation of institutional crisis that has never been seen before. There is always reference to countries such as France and Great Britain, both for constitutional reforms, and for other types of reforms, such as countries to be taken for example for parliamentary efficiency. Well, it is these countries, cradles of modern parliamentarism, that traditionally of democratic institutions (the first birthplace of the modern rule of law; the second cradle of parliamentarism) can afford a bicameralism that is not equal. Our country is still not ready for such a big and abrupt step. The spectre of a new authoritarianism still wanders in the rooms and places of this still bitter democracy, which has not been able to apply the articles of the Constitution in more than sixty years since its birth. It is before everyone's eyes, among other things, how corruption, favoritism and clientele are still well rooted and present in our country. Ensuring the real democratic principle, that is direct, is a fundamental prerequisite for the 5 Star Movement. Ensuring direct representation and control on the part of the citizen, who you want to make less and less part of the country's life, is the fundamental principle on which the foundation of the Movement rests. By recapturing the script of the last few months, we have an unconstitutional majority that puts hand to the Constitution with an act of force by an appointed government. I'd call it unconstitutional shame. Several times the Movement has indicated the right way to reduce the costs of politics, very simple concepts, but which have had little follow-up among the ranks of Parliament; we have said this several times: reduction of Parliamentarians, half-wages, compulsory reporting of diaries, return of non-spent, abolition of the office allowance, the end-of-term allowance and real abolition of public funding to parties. You say you want this reform because of the slowness of the procedures for approving the laws, but it doesn't seem to me that it has been so slow that it has led to the approval of the Boccadutri law in order to pocket you, with a maxisanatoria, 45 million euros without any control over budgets or the electoral spot on the 80 euros, that nothing has affected the Italian economy and the decrease of poverty. It is, therefore, a matter of mere will and not of parliamentary procedures. The proof lies in the fact that our measure on citizenship income in the Commission has been working for more than a year. Therefore, the question remains; on the contrary, another is added to this, considering that the spirit of a constitutional reform must necessarily be to apply in the changed social context the principles underlying the Constitutional Charter. This Parliament and this Government, in their unusual formation, are not able to offer a sound constitutional reform and will end up bringing into our Constitution the political decadentism of these years and also of this you will assume responsibility. Is this really the reform that our country needs? Have you asked the Italians what they want? Did you go out on the streets? Have you seen the state of our young people, families and pensioners? Did you listen to people? We should learn; you should learn to have an active listening - that is called - to understand what people's problems are, to really apply the articles of the Constitution and to apply that social model that you feel so much in your mouths and, sometimes, you see on your writings, but that you never see applied in Italy for our citizens. The 5 Star Movement has its own ideas clear: citizenship income as a structural reform to address the real problems of the country and the people who, to date, do not know how to arrive at the end of the month. We do not need a debate on reforms that this Parliament cannot do. It takes an income to restore dignity - it is in the famous article 3 that we talk about and about which I have spoken before and for which our constituent Fathers have fought so much - to millions of families, to these institutions now far from the daily. The law on citizenship income was framed in the Commission more than a year ago. We still do not know how long it is, because the priorities of this Government and this Parliament are others. This shows how much Parliament is committed to crucial issues, to protecting citizens. This is a concrete measure, which will bring out 10 million Italian citizens and 1.5 million poor children out of poverty, those poor children whose mouths are so filled in television broadcasts and press releases but for whom you do nothing. It is 1.5 million poor children and one in six Italians! So come and tell us that Parliament has much more to do, perhaps because, precisely, the citizen is the least of the interests of this Parliament and perhaps because Parliament has no intention of applying those two words, about which the two senators mentioned at the beginning of my speech were speaking: 'de facto'; those words, introduced in the Constitution by Teresa Mattei, who spent his whole life in defense of the poor. You started with denying Italian citizens the tools to be able to live dignifiedly. You have taken away from them quality education: I remember the danger that the constituent Fathers mentioned, regarding the issue of culture, school and public education. You have eliminated the safety of work and the certainty of a future for Italian workers and families. You have taken away the hope of young people and have eliminated the life plan of Italian families and young people. You have called your reforms with English names, so as to confuse the Italians. Finally, after all this, when the citizen is desperate and has no certainty, he will be ready to no longer be represented within the institutions. We all know that the next step will be to take away their right to vote and that is what you are doing. This is your project. There will be man alone in command, a broken dream of the Berlusconian right, who instead, Mr Renzi, appointed and unelected president, is finally bringing to completion. However, we want to give you this message, saying that the 5 Star Movement does not die, that everything is not lost and that the Constitution still gives us the tools to stop this reform, once and for all, through the constitutional referendum. It will be the citizens, in a test of democracy - this time the real one, directed - who will blame you, through the referendum. We of the 5 Star Movement are not afraid to go down the streets and squares, we will talk to people, as we already do every day, every moment, for years, since before being present in Parliament, and we will explain the risks and consequences of this "deform," wanted by a government of nominations. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u48	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u49	Madam President, Senators and Senators, I think that during the third examination by the Senate of this draft law, we should not repeat the passions and arguments expressed first in the Commission and then in the course of the first reading, because, at this point, the constitutional ratio is not to repeat whether we agree or not, but to try to understand whether, despite everything, the reform that has been made can serve and can usefully fit into the constitutional structure. I try to alienate myself, as Ettore Scola would have said, who professionally dealt with these attempts to look things out of himself, to set up a certain type of relationship and story. The first thing I notice from the text is that, as Ainis says, on many decisive aspects the reform does not decide, or rather refers the decision to the law that will come: it is an unfinished reform. If I had to explain to college students, or to an audience of television viewers of an in-depth program, how and when the next senators will be chosen, I wouldn't know how to respond, I would stutter. I wonder what it means to say, as written in an article in the draft Constitutional Reform Act, that they will be elected by the Regional Councils and, as written in another article, that they will be chosen directly by the voters at the time of the vote of the Regional Council. It all depends on the law that comes. The reform is unfinished and no one knows when the law will be passed that will make it complete. Ainis also notes, in that article of the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) which, in my opinion, was improperly quoted by his friend Vannino Chiti, that for the election of the Regional Councils there was an ultimative constraint of one year in the Constitution, but the election of the Regional Councils that was to be held in 1948, as you all know, was then made in 1970. So we do not know from whom and how the new senators will be chosen, nor when they will be chosen with the new rite. Secondly, the law that we will submit to the referendum is contradictory, because on the one hand it transforms the Senate of the Republic (which will always be called so) into a Senate of the autonomouss, bringing mayors and regional councillors to Rome; on the other hand, the bill under consideration is the protagonist of an emptying of the autonomous powers of the Regions, so much so as to make an emblem of moderation, such as Senator Casini, that there is a centralist tension when the draft law introduces the clause of supremacy on the Regions in favor of the Government. There is, however, much more. When we eliminate competing legislation, dear senators, it really takes away the ambition, the possibility of contributing to national legislation and is held in a enclosure. If they are then in a fence, what is the point of turning the Upper House into a Chamber of Autonomouss? There is an implicit contradiction. The third issue that strikes me a great deal is that it is an unpredictable draft law, because it affects one of the central problems of the balance between the powers established by the Constitution in a gruff and political way: I am referring to the question of the President of the Republic. Since of course there is a relationship between the constitutional reform bill and Italicum, Ainis always notes that the Premier will be decided by the majority prize and the President of the Republic expressly gives (Article 88) the power to dissolve the Senate, but implicitly also the House, with a majority party (due to the effect of Italicum) whose leader will be able to decree the life and death of the legislature. Not only does the President of the Republic lose the power to dissolve the Senate and implicitly also the Chamber, but, as has been noted at second reading, he is elected by a procedure that lacks a closing clause. In other words, in order to prevent one from saying (this is what I call politicantism) that the Premier chose him, the President of the Republic is elected with a qualified quorum and with many votes. However, as a result of Italicum and what happens next, if the minorities were compact, we would see indecorous performances such as those of the election (or not election) of the judges of the Constitutional Court, because it will be very difficult for the Premier's candidate to pass; instead, if the oppositions eventually yielded and passed the Premier's candidate, probably the election of the President of the Republic would become the subject of a political exchange. Now, the closing clause in the majority systems exists, I mentioned it during the debate at second reading and I still remember it today. In Greece, for example, if the qualified quorum is not reached three times, the House falls, Parliament is dissolved and the vote is taken. We did not want to do this, keeping the confusion on this issue, and that makes me say that the reform is also unpredictable. For these three reasons, without any particular state of mind, I shall vote 'no' to the bill when we examine it. However, I would not just like to talk about the institutional aspect of what we are approving, but also about the political aspect, which is very important. Yesterday I followed from home, streaming, the debate in the Chamber until late at night and the impression that I had of it is painful: why did we have to do the night sitting? Just because someone said we had to vote on 20, not 21, not 22? There was no sense, no calendar obligation, just a choice, ipse ixit, you have to do it. But this, ladies and gentlemen, hides, and you all know it, a very serious political difficulty for the Premier and our Government, which today is in difficulty in its relationship with Europe. In fact, for wanting to take off the role of the diligent student who had, in a first phase, with Angela Merkel and Draghi, when he called him in the summer of 2014 (the meeting from which the job act started), and to ride the dissatisfaction widespread in many layers of the population towards Europe, the Premier made unforgivable mistakes that will pay the entire country. First mistake: while with one like Angela Merkel you can legitimately say: I don't agree with you and I seek alliances to change European policy.What can't be done, and Renzi did, is to use Kaczynski and Orban to make her a joke by voting against the Nord Stream pipeline, except then meet Putin and maybe talk about Italian orders. This kind of attitude - one that has had to be followed by European policy tells you - gives rise to reactions of no small moment. I imagine Angela Merkel will never say anything, never a word to our Premier and our Government; but she has put the cross on us, and others speak for her. The same goes for Dragons. As you know, Draghi is a political protagonist of the new Europe, not only the technical president of the European Central Bank and a Dragons who is engaged in a very difficult battle with the Bundesbank and certain financial circles that do not share, for example, quantitative easing, that is, its monetary policy, our position that does not face, as Tsipras tried to face, the problem of balance of budgets but that demands for itself, from time to time, communicating it more to the press than to formal meetings, safeguard clauses and advantages and favors, is a position that deeply breaks the boxes. From that point of view too, let us expect problems. This also explains the scandal that generated the position of Federica Mogherini, of which I mean that she was named perhaps without proper preparation, but that she worked well, and was praised by Lavrov and Kerry - who are not really the last ones - on the story of Iran. Federica Mogherini immediately got rid of the position of the Italian Government and of course the nightmare, as the newspapers write, is that a saucer such as the one that was packaged for Premier Silvio Berlusconi is prepared in Europe. I, for a criticism of European economic policy, believe that this criticism must be done loyally, by building alliances. If you use this pattern of flattering and asphalting in Europe, there are very serious problems. The reason why we have to humiliate this Senate and make it vote when the government decides without discussion is a way of hiding this profound difficulty. Then there is another difficulty, and I mean it. In these hours pressure is being put on the majority of the government and the leaders to vote in favour of the reform even if they are not convinced because, they say, otherwise the votes of Verdini would become decisive, fundamental. Verdini said: "I am Renzi's plumber. The taps of the majority on the right and on the left lose continuously; fortunately there is him repairing the tube. Gentlemen, I address my colleagues with passion: I have been a journalist all my life and there is nothing worse than self-censorship. It is much better that the law passes with 161 votes with the contribution of Verdini, rather than that you are self-censored by changing your positions, because in this way you open a drift that you know where it begins and you do not know where it ends. Third and last thing: the referendum. The election campaign for the referendum has already started and it is not about the Constitution, nor the constitutional change, but about all the things that our Government and our President-in-Office of the Council have done. It is an electoral campaign that, in a transparent way, wants to solve a gap of legitimacy that Renzi has: it has been voted by many to the primaries of the PD, then at the first trials the Democratic Party had a magnificent result in the European elections, but this Premier a legitimacy own does not have it. Having changed everything, he is the first - because he is a particularly intelligent man - to understand that he needs legitimacy. But instead of doing what Tsipras did, which has very great difficulties (today he is passing through a very complicated pension reform, then there is the problem of immigration, which affects him as much as we and much more) and which has submitted to a popular referendum on a central issue and then went to elections, here is a referendum confirming a completely improper role. Those who vote 'yes' to the confirmation referendum will not be voting for the reform that Senator Chiti - his goodness - promoted on the occasion of the second and third exam in this House, but will be voting for the jobs act, for the reform of the school, for the reform of the RAI, for the muscular performance to the public administration for which in forty-eight hours we have solved the problem of unfaithful officials. They are lies, because in this country there is above all a government deficit: it is not that there are no laws to drive out those who stamp the card and leave; we are not able because we have bad administration, because we have not managed our managers, because we have a government gap that has been going on for forty years. We are moving on to something else, to Parliament and to this absolutely muscular and populist policy, our profound inability. I just really want to say one last thing. Today Verderami writes on the "Corriere della Sera" that even with the majority prize of Italicum the majority would not be solid, because the Premier, of raffle or raffle, should give 10 percent to the PD minority. This goes back to Verdini's words. The point is then the following. I have never said and others have never said that we run an authoritarian risk in our country, because we have all understood that the risk we run is to continue as before, that is, with an exhausting corporate mediation. Only that the places of this mediation, instead of being those that are in it (the Parliament), are elsewhere. This is the danger: the places of mediation are elsewhere. Today, instead of being "conditioned" in the Commissions, the laws are "conditioned" by the legislative office of the Government, directed by the former chief of the police of Florence, Manzione. Today the comparison places move to other environments. This is why not only the Verdini come back, but also Carboni: professionals, facilitators, creators of structures in which we average what no longer finds its place of mediation in its own roles. This is dangerous, because of course it makes the system no more efficient, but even more corporate and greasy. From this point of view, I hope that in the continuation of the debate and also in the debate on the referendum someone will think back to his own positions and worry, trying to look at the picture a little more comprehensively. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bocchino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u50	Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u51	Madam President, at this point in the debate it is really difficult to talk about reforms without being repetitive. After all, since Prime Minister Renzi adapted to the most important chair, that of Palazzo Chigi, we have been discussing it in a more assiduous way. After all, the whole game of this Executive is about this theme. I still remember the words spoken in March last year by the President himself, about the possibility that the reform does not pass: not only does the government fall, I play my whole political history. Do you believe that? I really don't. I believe that the referendum will show Renzi what the Italians really think about constitutional reform. All Italians of common sense care about our Constitution, they know that it is the result of the sacrifices of their grandparents, those who fought in war. These people know that you are trying to cancel the fundamental Charter of their civil and political rights, the basis of this country's democratic life, and I think they will not allow it to happen. You're not realizing the harm you're doing to Italy. You are not realizing that by giving way to Renzi, you will give way to the total failure of this beautiful country. How sad the dullness! Selling for a few money, selling the soul to the devil, knowing it was wrong. I would like to make a good use of the time I have been given. That is why I am going to reiterate the critical remarks that have been made by many authoritative voices. The text of the constitutional bill is not definitively established and the serious points of disagreement correspond to other not less essential ones, on which the famous pact of the Nazarene before was sure, while today it seems to have been overcome by the pact Renzi-Verdini. The need to change the structure of bicameralism is superficially shared by you by the majority, not so much for intellectual autonomy, but for a Diktat dropped from above, as you share the idea of overcoming the perfect bicameralism perhaps because you are sure to sit on the armchairs of Montecitorio, convinced that, leaving the Chamber alone the power to give confidence to the Government, and to revoke it, you will solve the problem. Perhaps you have in mind that, with this reform, by giving the new Senate the representation of territorial autonomy, the democratic system will still stand. But I want to ask you one thing: how should a Senate be built to represent the view of the self-governments? Whose expression will it really be: of citizens or their governments? The Senate will represent the territorial institutions, but not even the shadow of the people. This becomes the justification for the choice of having senators elected by regional institutions rather than by the people of each region. On the other hand, a bizarre choice for the way in which this election takes place: the regional councillors designate who of them should be elected, so everything remains within each Council, with the only addition of some poor mayor. In fact, for those who have drawn up this grandiose project it will not have been easy to ignore the Municipalities, considered their ancient roots in the country. I can imagine some mayor of my region, who will be in fibrillation right now: he can't wait to sit on the scrambles of Palazzo Madama. Yet, the real and serious problem has come to light for a few. Do you not think that these mayors-senators, like the regional councillors, will find it difficult to play a double role? Courses and appeals, double roles, double assignments. Moreover, Italy is the country of the Mastrapasqua, which can carry out as many as 25 assignments at the same time. Another uncertain issue concerns the functions to be assigned to the Senate. In a true democracy, exercising the highest constitutional functions is allowed only to those with popular legitimacy, and instead, a Senate so badly constructed even participates in the legislative function of the highest level, the revision of the Constitution, with the same powers as the elective Chamber. He is even called to elect two judges of the Constitutional Court, thus acquiring a far more decisive power than that of the present Senate. The reform assigns the election of three judges to the Chamber of Deputies (where there are more than six hundred deputies) and two judges to the new Senate, composed of only one hundred members. The power gap between the two Chambers and their members is as obvious as it is unjustified: only if the new Senate were conceived as a guarantee body, as provided for in some amending proposals, could such power be justified, but it is clear that in the established composition it is completely unthinkable to consider senators as a guarantee. After all, who will consider a mayor or a regional councilor to be a senator? I don't think anyone. The decisive role of the secretariats of the parties on their election (or, rather, on their appointment) certainly does not allow it and the function attributed to them can only appear a device to put the hands, indirectly, on the Constitutional Court, i.e. on the composition of the body that has the high task of ensuring the respect of our Constitutional Charter. Moreover, two judges at the disposal of politicians can shift the delicate balance of the Constitutional Court and also make a law clearly and fundamentally unconstitutional a constitutionally oriented law. The underlying political crux - that is the democratic representativeness of Parliament, if not even the fate of the sovereign people - emerges more clearly looking at the whole of the reforms, as we have supported, namely looking at the reform of the Senate and the new electoral law together. I would remind you that it is an approved law with clear procedural constraints and, in fact, without a real comparison, which distorts the will of voters by awarding a large prize and can allow a small minority to take over all the institutions, including the guarantee institutions. I speak of a small minority because the 40% threshold required to obtain the prize is only a misleading screen: if no party achieves the result it is not, as required by the so-called scam law of 1953, that no coalition (other essential difference) enjoys the prize and each gets the seats corresponding to the votes obtained. With the current law, the two most voted parties participate anyway in the ballot, whatever percentage they have reached, and one of the two will necessarily exceed the other, obtaining the prize in seats and domination over all, although having a very low electoral consensus. Without a threshold to participate in the ballot and the possibility to join forces, a single party takes everything, in the name of stability, governability and speed in deciding, but the stability artificially produced by electoral mechanisms created to tacitize dissent and hide social fractures only serves to take us out of constitutional democracy. You are about to vote on a measure that cancels the voices, but certainly not the fractures, while it is the gap between people and between the social groups that puts the stability of the political system at risk. It is this gap that should be bridged, as the current Constitution requires. By throwing the money, citizens no longer elect the Senate and in the election of the Chamber of Deputies their will is distorted and has very little weight. In short, from this unfortunate reform process the people come out without a voice and defeat democracy. The only hope that we in the 5 Star Movement have is in the referendum tool, which will allow citizens to express their voice. Participatory democracy is the only way to give concrete answers to the needs of communities. We have always said that democratic coexistence is structured in the close dialogue between the moment of participation and that of decision-making responsibility. Surely it is not structured in a soft dictatorship that silences the voice of ordinary citizens. We cannot call democracy the one that gives power only to one person, least of all to a President-in-Office of the Council who is not elected by the citizens. Participation and responsibility are not on different sides of the same river: participation is also the responsibility of those who have the mandate and the duty to make decisions and responsibility invests those who participate far beyond the individual electoral moment. Democracy in the absence of participation is that confined to a political technique, as a balance of powers, as an instrument of consensus and as a method, among others, to decide who must decide. You had the task of strengthening democratic institutions to face the difficult challenges of our times, those challenges you are not worrying about, challenges that have a name and surname, and they are the economic crisis, the political crisis, the social crisis and the moral crisis. We expected the Government to grasp the present and future potential of a Constitution that is and remains a living and vital norm and, instead, you have done nothing but destroy it, you have torn it apart as you have torn the hearts of the Italians who have always put trust in its 139 articles. We hope that the leader of this government, who stands as the champion of democracy, will obtain all the disapproval of the Italian people, disapproval that will certainly be expressed at the next constitutional referendum, which will finally put an end to the political life of Matteo Renzi and all those who so far have supported him, forgetting their fathers, their grandparents and even their children and grandchildren. I would personally include in the Constitution an obligation to approve at least 10% of the amendments tabled by the oppositions. So there would be a real confrontation and opposition would make sense. This Parliament, as it is set up now, is - in my view - useless. It would be the same to leave only the Government: the result would not change. We wouldn't change a comma what's happening. What we're doing is wasted time, wasted public money. That is what we are doing. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u52	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u53	Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me to have to remind this House, as a necessary premise, of the reference to the democratic deficit that has been repeated several times in the debate by many senators, and not just by Forza Italia. The Council of Ministers presided over a President not elected by the people, the result of an internal choice of the Democratic Party of which he is the secretary, who, as a convinced supporter of the reforms introduced by Enrico Letta, after having "serenely" torpedoed him took his place. Since then, President Renzi has imposed his political line on the party and today imposes it on Parliament, especially in the area of large and small reforms and economic reforms. His choices and his way of doing, certainly authoritarian - it must be recognized - have fascinated the Italians, who have identified him as the great renewer in politics and in this context the Nazarene pact is born (I say this by addressing Senator Chiti). Everything seemed to go for the best and anyone who criticized him was the target of his retaliation, both within the PD and the majority who support him, and outside. It seemed that the feeling should not be exhausted and that the owls, as its opponents defined, were only the envious of its national and international success. The great reformer was passionate about politicians and the people. But among the owls there were many people who expressed concern and concern about the measures envisaged and taken to overcome the economic and political crisis. "Italy is there!" "Italy is recovering": this is the leitmotiv of President Renzi. After two years, however, the ability to represent economic data in a surreal way with the complicity of many mass media, RAI in the head, is colliding with reality. Today statistical institutes, social organizations, industrial observers, business data show that nothing or little has changed in economic fundamentals and unemployment is raging, especially in the South, but also the North "does not laugh." The number of new poverty increases dramatically. The comparison with our European competitors, especially France, Germany and Spain, does not see us, euphemistically speaking, excelling. Well or, better, bad, because in this context today we face the most important constitutional reform, that is the transformation of the bicameral political system equal and/or perfect to an imperfect bicameral system. They will survive, in fact, two Houses on the Constitutional Charter, but one will be just a storeroom or a service room or rather at the service of some compensation for disgruntled politicians. Using a football metaphor, you will have a Serie A Chamber, the Chamber of Deputies, real political and decision-making center - Renzi permitting - and a Chamber that militates in the group of amateurs, maybe in Promotion if within the same play some politician to promote. But let's go back to Senate reform. The question is: who will be the elected or better the future senators, since they will be included in a list absolutely blocked? And what will the new Senate do? As far as composition is concerned, how will regional councillors and elected mayors resolve the problems of their territory? I wonder, having been a mayor for ten years and seven as a regional councillor, how they will be able to fulfil their mandate to the full. Above all the mayors, and in particular the elected in the metropolitan cities, how will they be able to ensure even their presence in Rome? Unfortunately, it is easy to point out what will happen. We are imitating the French Senate's failing experience of numerous mayors. The French define the Senate as the home of rest for the privileged of politics: absenteeism, laxism and nothingness in buildings of inestimable beauty, full of art. Well, fellow senators, in France we are talking about Senate reform to change the composition and function, and we, instead, are copying the desueto and failed French system. On the functions of the new Senate there is no joy: no more confidence, no more economy, but powers, or rather residual tasks to the new Senate of the self-governments, as it is defined. It seems quite a mockery that a government like the present one, with a strong centralist connotation, which is stripping of powers and reducing the transfer of resources to the local self-governments, municipalities and regions, can take due account of what comes from such a House. The answer to you. I would like to make one final comment on the economic and political motivation for saving public expenditure strongly sponsored by President Renzi, who spoke of a billion before and then of 500 or 600 million. In fact, the cost savings that will be obtained will be about 70 million, which will not compensate even the 80 million that will be spent in the new House for the new functions that will be attributed to it. I shall conclude by mentioning, as other Members have done before and better than I have, the combination between Senate reform and electoral law. We will have in Italy, in practice, only one Chamber and one President elected, if that's okay, by one seventh of Italians with an absolute power, without control and without uncomfortable counterweights. Absolute power: true goal of the Premier and his majority, or rather of his party. And what happens to Parliament, if already today, to the Constitution in force, does the Government impose the issues to be addressed and the times to discuss ordinary and even constitutional laws? Easy answer: we are moving towards an absolute presidentialism with only one House at its service. This is the real danger of the dreaded democratic drift; one man in command, the danger of the restoration in Italy of a dictatorial system of not even ancient memory, which does not solve the problems of our nation. For these reasons we support the establishment of referral committees for no. And, after this fictitious parliamentary process, especially in its last phase, we will look confidently to the Italian people, sure that the popular consultation will fail this reform and with it - hopefully - even those who proposed it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u54	Madam President, we have arrived at the last reading here in the Senate of this reform and I believe it is time to make an overall review of how the parliamentary debate that has taken place in this House, our senatorial group, has gone for so long and in a very intense way. I believe that the fundamental question that we must ask ourselves and that all of us will hear when we go before the citizens is as follows: in the end, what is the project for the country that you have been able to present? And this question will be addressed to the majority and the opposition. From this point of view, I believe that even the debate that has just passed and which is going on has given precise indications: political forces that have opposed this constitutional design, legitimately, in all sincerity have not been able to present any alternative proposal. This is the real question and the great missed opportunity. And I'd like to mention a few names, too. With regret, I quote the 5 Star Movement, to which I envy the ability and inventiveness to always find new forms of insult and denigration of the opponents, a skill frankly extraordinary, and within which I believe there is also a kind of competition between those who can say the most creative and hurting offenses. [[Comments of Senator Fattori]] But at the end of the day, Madam President, it seems to me that he has been imprisoned in a somewhat delegitimantic and offensive language. In the end, it is a Movement that has lost the great challenge, since it had the opportunity to win and contribute positively to the renewal of this country. [[Ironic applause from Senator Santangelo]] There was a great expectation of him and, unfortunately, of this Movement will remain only a kind of behavior, that is to say, preventing others from speaking. We've been here hours hearing them talk, and they don't want the others to talk. LUCIDES (M5S). What's that got to do with anything? COCIANCICH (PD). They only speak of man in command, but it is only a group that has lost by expulsion a third of its members... [[Senator Santangelo's comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u55	Senator Santangelo, everyone has listened...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u56	SANTANGELO (M5S). But listen to what he says! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. First of all, speak calmly to the Presidency. SANTANGELO (M5S). Listen to what he says instead of interrupting! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Everyone has heard the speeches of the other exponents and, therefore, you also listen to what Senator Cociancich is saying. SANTANGELO (M5S). But listen to you, who is President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I listen, as all the Presidents have listened. Just calm down and let Senator Cociancich speak. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] LUCIDES (M5S). That's enough! COCIANCICH (PD). Madam President, I am not surprised by Senator Santangelo's reaction and I think that is exactly the confirmation... [[Comments by Senators Lucidi and Santangelo.]] AIROLA (M5S). The other people write the amendments to you, and you sign it. [[Comments of Senator Verducci]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u57	Senator Verducci, don't answer that.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u58	[[Comments by Senators Airola, Lucidi and Santangelo.]] Please sit down and be quiet. There have been many speeches by your Group, which have been silently heard by everyone. So, please behave like the others. [[Comments by Senators Airola, Lucidi and Santangelo.]] COCIANCICH (PD). Madam President, I am very sorry that Senator Santangelo doesn't like my words, but I do until... [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u59	Please continue with your speech, Senator Cociancich.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u60	COCIANCICH (PD). I'm going on. As I have listened to others, I would like to be able to continue to express my opinion. I think this was a missed opportunity for the North League, too. On this point I believe there is a reflection to be made, because it was interesting to see how the position of the North League has developed in relation to the reform. [[Senator Centinario's comments.]] I would like to remind you that President Calderoli - all of us have considered and taken into account his great capacity for regulation - was co-rapporteur in the first reading of the reform, and he was in some way co-author of a reform towards which his own Group abandoned him in the end. He abstained in the first line... COUNCIL (LN-Aut). What are you looking for, bitches? COCIANCICH (PD). Looking for trouble? But excuse me, Madam President... But if you don't even recognize the signature you put on the amendments! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Centinario, please. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). You're a vassal! COCIANCICH (PD). I take note that a Senator of the League has asked if I'm looking for trouble. [[Senator Centinario's comments.]] I'd like this sentence to remain in the record and identify the senator who gave it. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Go sign the amendments! COCIANCICH (PD). I was merely expressing thoughts about Senator Calderoli, whose parliamentary affair seems to me symptomatic of the League's inability to assume a responsibility for the country's confrontation. [[Comments of the Senator Council]] Although they had, within their own parliamentary group, a person of their own experience, they eventually voted against the first version in the Senate and then barricaded themselves behind 85 million amendments at second reading, made with an algorithm. The great project that the League has for our country is to renounce to intervene in the merits and to hand over the weapons of its arguments to an algorithm, to a software system that has determined a number of amendments of which its members do not even know the exact amount, because having initially spoken of 85 million, then 83 million and yesterday of 80 million do not even know how many million amendments they have proposed. I believe that this is another great political defeat that the League has shown itself to suffer in the debate and that it has self-inflicted. Nothing precluded her from making a useful contribution of ideas, as it had actually emerged at first reading. But in the end the spirit of the forest prevailed: trying to go to a clash - and even the demonstrations of intolerance show what the real inspiration of this political group is - that in the end it turned out to be a self-defeating, with a total irrelevance in the face of the great historical challenge of being able to contribute to the design, together with the others, of a reform of our Constitution and our political system. Finally, it is regrettable that Forza Italia, who had even voted in favour of this reform at first, for the disappointment of its leader Silvio Berlusconi that he had not been heard when he wanted to have his own candidate elected to the Presidency of the Republic, in the end he took a step back, withdrawing his consent to a reform that had even voted in the first instance. So when we look at those who have won and those who have lost, I think we will have to see first of all the great opportunity lost by the opposition to contribute to a debate towards which there has always been the greatest willingness. On the contrary, the Democratic Party, so outraged, offended and delighted in the last few hours, had a project for the country and defended it even at the price of a tough internal discussion. He was able, however, to reach an agreement, with mutual respect for all people, and positive solutions. The future Senate will not be a useless Senate, but it will be a Senate that - as it was written in a famous amendment - will have a link between Europe, the national level and the Regions. It is a necessary level of connection for the future of our country, because otherwise we will always be the victim of our own going on our own way. We are currently complaining of a low impact at European level and we have heard criticism of the Italian Government's position at European level. But today we are not, like other countries, with a cohesive force in the face of Europe. The Bundesrat, of which we have spoken, and France, with an important Senate, have a capacity for representation of national interests, of the community of national interests at European level, which today our country does not have, beyond what can be good or bad intentions, the great or modest capacities of governments in turn. We do not have the capacity to make a summary of our country's interests before the European level. And this was a reflection that we, in the European Union's Political Commission, shared among all parties and among all political groups. It is therefore surprising that, today, colleagues who have reflected and agreed on this issue are not able to recognise the great step forward, the need that everyone raised and brought as an urgent necessity. And we have also been protagonists of an important change where the reform provides for the principle of gender equality, an element that no one has raised in this debate, and which, from the institutional but also cultural point of view, carries forward the reform of our country, our Senate and our institutions. This reform is not merely a minor change in the legal mechanisms, but affects civil and founding values, such as gender equality in the first place. It is also important - and I would like to emphasise this - that the steps concerning public administration and the obligation of transparency for public administration are also important. The Senate of the future will be prestigious and will, in all probability, have within it the vast majority of the Presidents of the Region. It is difficult to imagine that, in the future, the President of the Piedmont Region does not want to be part of this assembly because he had a very strong popular legitimacy. The President of the Piedmont Region was elected by more than one million votes. Why should he not intervene in this high-level assembly at national level? Why should not the President of Lombardy and the other Presidents do so? Why should the mayors of the big cities not also intervene? I believe that we will have a highly authoritative Senate with strong popular legitimacy and a desire to weigh. It will have important functions in the debate on future constitutional reforms and electoral laws. You will have the opportunity to speak on all the bills approved by the House. It will also have a great political role, with a great simplification from the point of view of the approval of the law because, where the House, owner of the only relationship of trust with the Government, should not finally approve the reforms proposed by the Senate, there will be the possibility to close the speech without the exhausting shuttles that have made our country very complicated, less competitive and less European. I hope that in the future there will be a chance for our country to be more cohesive. And I am sorry that today we put poison in the wells and we are already going to delegitimize the senators of the future saying that they will be more corrupt than all. It also delegitimises us to say that today we are not allowed to stand here under a constitutional sentence very badly read by those who quote it or, probably, not read at all. That sentence, in fact, says precisely that Parliament is fully entitled to legislate without limits, and that is what we are doing. We are not only insisting on a continuous delegitimantic attitude, but we are also pursuing it in the direction of the future Parliament's delegitimization. It is a great sin, another challenge lost because the challenge of the future should unite us all. I hope that the citizens, by voting in favour of the referendum, will put an end to this debate and will allow us to take a step forward towards a better country for which we, as a Group of the Democratic Party, have now made a strong commitment. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u61	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u62	Madam President, I do not intend to reply to the words of the senator who has just finished his speech. It's not worth it. I and the North League are not interested, especially since that Member of Parliament, in this debate, will only be mentioned for one reason: for an amendment which is clearly false, not autograph, which has had a profound impact on the debate on the reform of the Constitution. With regard to this matter, I would say that we should lay out a pitiful veil and go further, because the debate is important, it concerns the Constitutional Charter. And I sincerely regret that it is treated by the Government and the majority as a mere formality, given the presence of the senators in the Chamber over the last two days, in which we have been given the opportunity to deepen the measure under consideration. And it cannot be said that this is a formality because we are at second reading and all the work that was to be done has already been done in the previous passages. If the constituent Fathers have foreseen a double reading for the changes to the Constitutional Charter, each passage has equal dignity and must represent a part of a fundamental path, before which Parliament had to be aware of the changes that had to be made. This reform, whose title mentions the repeal of the CNEL and the modification of Title V, does not really affect these issues, nor, let alone, only a modification of the composition or representation of the Senate or even perhaps, the strengthening of the power of the Executive. This reform has a very different value, much deeper and - in our view - much more serious. In fact, this reform, associated with electoral reform on the composition of the House of Deputies, breaks a balance between the powers of the State, which is its founding element. And it breaks it with an operation designed at the table, which is not accidental and has been studied not by the parliamentary composition of this House and by the various political forces represented here, but by a small group of people, namely the Council of Ministers and perhaps even more so, it was intended exclusively by the President of the Council of Ministers. This is the constitutional reform not of Parliament, but of President Renzi. There is a clear centralization of powers. There is a break in the balance between the powers of the State: in fact we will have the President of a party who will point out himself as President of the Council and will have the power to influence the list of the elected, to which he will ask to vote the President of the Republic and the members of the Constitutional Court and the MSM. I wonder if this is not a concentration of powers and I believe that those who deny it are in bad faith or want to deny the truth to themselves, in order to justify their vote in favour of this measure. I am sure that if the MPs of the Democratic Party had been faced with such a measure, with inverted parts, that is, with a different majority, they would certainly have torn their clothes, they would have shouted at the centralization of powers, which could have been identified in a form of regime and dictatorship, and would have organized various demonstrations. This hypocrisy is intolerable and makes the parliamentary path towards which we are moving even more odious. The reforms you are pursuing are, in fact, driving citizens away from the important choices that affect the life of the country. You have done so with the electoral laws and you are doing so with the reform under consideration. And I would like to make a brief reference to the electoral law for the election of representatives of the House of Deputies. You have introduced legislation that has worsened the previous electoral system, which had been launched by the centre-right, but, in fact, with the agreement of the opposition at the time. With the electoral law in force, a further principle has been introduced compared to blocked lists, which gives voters the illusion of being able to express a preference. This preference, however, will have a value in itself and will lead to the election of representatives only for the majority list that will have won the elections, which will elect candidates both among the blocked leaders of the 100 colleges, and among those who have received the preferences. On the other hand, there is the certainty for all other parties that preferences will be worth nothing, so we will have candidates voted by tens of thousands of voters who will not be elected, because with this system, for all lists other than the winner, only the leaders indicated by the parties will be elected. This, then, is a system worse than the previous one, because it deludes the voter that his vote of preference serves something. It is, therefore, a further deterioration. We are therefore strongly critical of this measure, because it is a very different concept of democracy from ours. Probably Renzi believes that the people should not be represented, but governed, commanded and needed tools to do so, and the reform you are about to approve goes precisely in this direction. I believe, moreover, that the stage of economic uncertainty and towards the institutions that we are experiencing is the fertile ground on which Renzi tries to affirm this will. It is clear that, in the face of economic crises, there is a danger that citizens will depart from political representation, believing that nothing can change and that all parties and politicians are equal. It is therefore easier to create a mechanism by which they accept amendments to the Constitution that reduce the spaces of democracy: a mechanism is created according to which, rather than a sick democracy that is unable to decide, it is preferable to rely on someone who makes decisions and commands. And we are experiencing this very situation and it is on this ground that Renzi works and works to obtain consensus with respect to the reform under consideration. A clear danger we have tried to represent in all the fora, but it has encountered the substantial disinterest and the lack of answers from the Democratic Party. The opposition, from all sides (from the 5 Star Movement to Forza Italia, from the North League to SEL), has moved the same objections, but has always remained unheard. It is not, therefore, true that there has been no debate and no requests for amendment have been made: they have been raised and have been expressed several times and more than clearly, but there has never been a responsible attitude on the part of the Democratic Party compared to all. We are moving towards a system that will lead not only one man, but certainly a small group of people that will affect the lives of all the citizens of our communities, and this danger is evident. It is creating that sort of oligarchy in front of which the citizen will no longer have the opportunity to influence and make choices on his own future. And this is the risk that we highlight and that is even clearer than the situation we are experiencing. Honestly, I am surprised that a party that refers to the tradition of the founding fathers of this Constitution, and therefore to Christian Democracy and the Communist Party, can approve an amendment like the one under consideration. Those parties, after the fascist regime and the Second World War, approved a balanced constitutional text, which could no longer pose a danger to democracy in our country. Today the Democratic Party refers to that tradition, but it does exactly the opposite, endangering the balance between powers and going in a direction that today can be entrusted to the hands of Renzi, but one tomorrow to those of anyone else will assume the power in our country. And this danger is not perceived by public opinion, nor even here in Parliament, but it is real. Honestly, I wondered whether there was an excess of concern, rhetoric and alarm on the part of the opposition forces in the past debate; whether there was an excessive game of the parties, according to which everything that the counterpart does is wrong and the concerns of the oppositions are unmotivated. I wondered about that doubt and I believe that this danger is real. Every time there are limits to democratic power, it is probably done because there is no real perception of what is happening; otherwise in the past, in most cases, changes would never have happened. I believe that we are underestimating the changes to the Constitution that we are about to vote on, and we are doing so in Parliament and public opinion is doing so outside. We start from a very trivial concept: the Constitution is dated, we need to modify it and entrust more powers to those who manage the public thing, so let's start along this path and hopefully move forward. I believe that it is wrong and dangerous and that is why we all participate in the debate: it must remain a trace, at least in the memory of the community not only of today but also of the near future, of the fact that this reform has found in the Chambers of the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies some representatives of the citizens who have highlighted the danger, the risk and have tried, within the limits of their possibilities, with the amending actions, with the words and interventions carried out in these fora, to make those who have the task of taking decisions reflect. We have done so and I think we can say that we have a clear conscience. I do not think, however, that we can say the same above all of those Members of the majority who have criticized the measure several times, that I believe they are aware of its shortcomings, but have finally, after a few skirmishes, entrenched behind a self-absolution, starting from the consideration of having done what they could, of having tried to change the text and of having obtained small and little significant changes. And, therefore, they have done their duty. In fact, those Members are perhaps more responsible than they are now than those who do not realize the seriousness of what this text contains. And perhaps they have greater responsibilities than those who, consciously, approve a constitutional text that reduces the powers of the people and of Parliament and focuses them all in the hands of a few people, and in particular those of the President-in-Office of the Council. These people, Renzi in particular, have a precise plan, they are convinced and they know what they are doing, but even those who have opposed it and who, in the end, have given up arms, have surrendered and probably in this House will even vote in favour of this constitutional reform which is absolutely wrong and dangerous for our country. On them will fall the responsibility for such a choice, and especially on them, because they were and are aware of what we are doing. And it is even more serious that the President-in-Office of the Council says that, on the referendum that will inevitably follow the adoption of this reform, he will put a question of confidence in his work. And he will not have a referendum debate on the merits of the change that will be brought to our Constitution, but a sort of plebiscite referendum on his own work, on his own person. And this is not a democratic country method, but a mentality of figures that have nothing to do with democracy. It seems a bit like what Presidents of the Council of other countries have done in the past, where the level of democracy I believe is different. Similar speeches have been made by Chávez in Venezuela and Erdoğan in Turkey and I do not know if they are the model of President of the Council and of democracy to which Renzi refers. Perhaps yes and this - in my opinion - is not a properly democratic conception of the political debate. That this concept exists in Renzi also highlights the alleged name of the party that will be born after the parliamentary experience and that will see him as leader: the Party of the Nation. Even in this case, almost the will and the presumption of being able to create a party that represents the whole nation, every political part and every citizen is highlighted. This also accentuates in us the conviction that the relationship between Renzi and democracy is quite questionable, which certainly does not find our sharing. It is also worrying that the text that will come out of Parliament reflects, in many respects, texts that have been born in other fora, which have been born in the debates of forces that are not properly democratic. And Freemasonry has been mentioned several times, and I believe not to disprove it. We have read all the texts that came out of those circles, which reflect, almost in a pedissequous or very similar way, the text that will come out of this Parliament. There is a relevance in things and not just in our words and concerns. I would like to recall here a sentence made by the President of the Republic of Naples when he arrived in this Chamber as a senator emeritus. He said that, in the face of the world crisis, a new world order was needed. This is also a worrying expression, which we do not share, which seems to highlight a renunciation of the principles of democracy; a renunciation which comes at a difficult time, as if in the face of the crises we are experiencing, which have not ended but will become more serious and will accentuate the malaise and difficulties in which our citizens will find themselves, it serves not a self-reform, a questioning of power, of those who have governed public affairs in recent decades, but an opposite reaction, aimed at concentrating powers and having more strength in suppressing the probable dissent of citizens and people; it serves to be ready, with extraordinary powers, to prevent dissent from being manifested. The feeling that we live is precisely this and it is absolutely dangerous, and we look at it with great concern. In the face of a crisis that is seriously affecting the quality of life of our citizens, which sees a concentration of wealth in the hands of the few and growing poverty, what is the state's reaction? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator. TOSATO (LN-Aut). To remove power from local authorities, to remove the right to vote from citizens, to concentrate power in the hands of a few in order to be able to command and govern the people. We do not recognize ourselves in this design, we do not recognize ourselves at all, and it is clear, therefore, that our battle will continue also in the referendum campaign that will see us engaged in the coming months. [[Applause from Senator Comaroli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u63	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scibona. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u64	Madam President, a great deal has been said and certainly more titled than I do, but I too, unworthyly, would like to leave a few words to the documents on the constitutional change under consideration. And for the time being, let's call it a change. First of all, I would like to say a few words to Senator Cociancich (he is not present now, but he will hear them), who seems rather confused. Perhaps that is also why you think you have signed amendments. The President of the Region cannot but must absolutely enter into the debate with regard to his Presidency and its territorial competence, and there are all institutional systems in order to do so. Several times we have seen regional presidents in the area who come from parliamentarians to ask to settle just territorial issues. If they came here as senators, they could not be presidents and, therefore, something does not fit in the reasoning made with the amendments under consideration, just to say one. And we have heard a lot of real criticism of this kind of change. We have said so many things, but they have not been transposed, because the majority is deaf to constructive parliamentary activity. And what happened last night is an example: we say things, we make proposals and the majority take them as a mere obstructionist opposition, so much so that they leave the night sessions in Parliament, so people have spoken, and they think that we say nothing but nonsense while they know everything, they have infused science and they act on going straight ahead like a meltdown. Obstructionism is something else. We have tabled a few substantive amendments, pointing out the criticalities of the constitutional changes. But beyond that, what does the people really want? In fact, we are here always and only because, out of necessity, the popular will has wanted us to administer the country system. It seems to me - as we have already said - that it is not really time for us to consider constitutional changes of this kind, and I wonder how the citizens perceive them. First of all, we are always talking about evolving, modifying and improving, but in this sense a constitutional reform that is going to eliminate the High House must at least follow certain principles, such as honesty, transparency, economicity and efficiency. Here, on efficiency, but also on other principles, we have already said. Indeed, the efficiency of a Chamber can be seen from how quickly certain propositions can pass, obviously those affecting parties, the majority, politicians (the ones with the letter p minuscule). We have seen the Boccadutri - we have already said it and it is not the only one - while other proposals for modification lie for entire legislatures in the drawers, to be then re-proposed the next round, also to satisfy the face in front of the country, but never to bring them really to completion. On economics, it has already been said: it will certainly not be the way to save money. In contrast to what I have said, I do not agree with the reduction in the number of Members, or at least not in principle; in the second instance, yes. In the first instance, memorable and conscious of the history of this country, where someone has benefited economically in order to facilitate a somewhat hesitant majority, the fact that there are more parliamentarians can, unfortunately, be a guarantee for this way of seeing the state, in order to still have more chance that someone cannot pay everyone, or in any case must pay more. Honesty and transparency are now a dream, at least as far as this policy is concerned, because everything is done in the secret rooms, by decree and, therefore, the word democracy has now lost its meaning. Politically, the House's activity can also be influenced by that of the government because, with all the decrees carried out, there is no longer room for the real legislative activity of the House (both high and low understanding). In short, this reform absolutely does not reflect what can be a necessity on the part of the population. And, then, why is this institutional "cracker" made, as has already been said and stradatto? There will certainly be an interest in bringing in these classrooms someone reliable, more controllable and malleable to someone's dictates. What does the population actually feel? They have already been read about interventions by ordinary people, by the people. I'd like to read one too, just to leave another mark. Mother Silvia (who is not my wife, that's her name) wrote me the following: If you can say these words for me: I am outraged, I am terrified by your cold lack of ethical sense, responsibility, attention to the real needs of the people of this country. You are not fathers, you are not mothers, for otherwise you would behave differently. If you also have children you are betraying their future and also that of all our children. You are the worst example of citizens and human beings. The conscience is very much that has abandoned your soul, the heart evidently is a mere organ and nothing else. I don't mean you disgust me, because it's reductive of what I really feel. If you really were able to see yourselves from the outside honestly, you would see the petty gaze that characterizes you when you open your mouth in the name of the Italian people (...) in all your thoughts, aimed only to accumulate and accumulate all things that you cannot carry in the tomb. Don't you feel your heavy footsteps on this world, on this beautiful land that is Italy? I am sure that you will never be able to taste the euphoric lightness that gives you to be honest, clear and transparent, to be good and generous and more than anything uninterested and responsible. Your heavy step resonates, makes the earth tremble, and I hope that sooner or later you can sink into the dark chasms created by yourself. Mother Silvia. This letter is quite exemplifying. The constitutional question also has a profound value, in the sense that Italy has always been a agglomeration of territoriality and there has never been a national unitary consciousness, precisely because separate and separate administrative governmental societies have developed in the various areas, then aggregated (or at least sought and are still trying to unite them) starting from the Constitution. Therefore, the Constitution is also a means of creating a national consciousness. Dossetti, a true constituent Father, was also talking about this and more, not like you. He also deals with these issues in his speeches. I quote some parts of one: "Orbene," the Constitution of '48 - the first not bestowed, but really dated by a large part of the Italian people, and the first conjugating the guarantees of equality for all and the basic structures of a corresponding form of State and Government - can help to heal old or new wounds of our unitary process, and to found what, already lived in America, has been extensively theorized by lawyers and sociologists in the Germany of Bonn, and called: "Patriotism of the Constitution" (). And again: they can assume the Constitution of '48 as a garrison of defense and legality common to all: and then: "All current political parties should consider the function that our fundamental Law has exercised in the difficult years of the first building of our democratic life: years of deep divisions, linked to a radical rift of the world, between West and East; years of very hard opposition between parties that, while struggling with unspeakable harshness, never thought of denouncing the Pact, and indeed by virtue of it managed to maintain the reasons for mutual co-existence. This "Patrioticism of the Constitution" can contribute, for today and tomorrow, to a strengthening of our unity. Of course, I can agree with Norberto Bobbio that this patriotism is placed on another plane from that of national patriotism: but Bobbio himself admits at least that one and the other patriotism can complement and strengthen each other. And that even the "Patrioticism of the Constitution" does not derive from a simple equal contract, but is based, as it appears from the same text, on some last non-negotiable principles: it can therefore build and guarantee a space taken away from negotiation and simple do ut des, and therefore a space taken away from both political conflict and negotiation. So, ultimately, it can, as I said, be a guarantee to any political party, in any situation, of majority or minority, it may be found. This is a serious problem that we have repeatedly pointed out, of course, in the absolute indifference of the majority; a knot that will necessarily come to the comb, because cyclicality is a normal thing in parliamentary assemblies and we will have to see what will happen. I wouldn't do it much longer, not least because we've been here for days and days of work. I would like to conclude by saying that, in some ways, we of the 5 Star Movement also have some faults, because we have drawn up a program that went towards the common good of the citizens and we have not managed to prevent this Government from taking the titles of our program and changing its content. Thus, to speak of reducing the costs of politics is resolved, in the hands of any Renzi, in the abolition of the democracy of the Upper Chamber, which is part of the history of this country and not only, of the history of civilization. I am thinking of the meaning of SPQR: Senatus populusque romanus. Now we can change it to: "These Renziani" are crazy, along the lines of what Asterix said. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In fact, I feel a little, if not the Asterix, the Obelix of the situation and we all are. Indeed, Renzians are crazy to want to change a jewel like the Charter that has been given to us by our constituent Fathers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u65	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u66	Madam President, the debate on constitutional reform, which has already begun in the country, is polluted, because our President-in-Office of the Council has spoken heavily in it, linking its political fate to the outcome of the constitutional referendum. In his narration, Renzi plans a match between two teams: innovators and immobilists, those who do not want change; a match between those who want to modernise the country and those who want to preserve it and want to prey on ancient regiments. This is the kind of debate that he is forcing into public opinion. Well, I don't feel nostalgic at all without if and without but. And in order to disassemble this kind of narrative and to be able to present myself in some way not only to the citizens, but also to the media and the general public, outside of this scheme, I want to spend the minutes at my last speech on constitutional reform trying to analyze the real and supposed reasons for the reform. Why are we proceeding with this reform? And above all, Madam President, why should we carry out a reform? I have chosen, among the many things that I have read in recent days, a step in the speech of Professor Azzariti during the Assembly held in the Chamber of Deputies on 11 January for the presentation of the Committee on No to the Constitutional referendum, a committee I am proud to have given accession. Professor Azzariti writes that two are the issues to be put at the centre of the debate. On the one hand, the issue of the crisis of the role of Parliament, deprived of its essence and its value; on the other hand, the problem of political representation, emptied of the increasingly worrying distance between rulers and rulers. The question to be asked then is: can constitutional reform reverse the course, give new impetus to the two issues on which pluralist democracy is based, or does it continue to keep us in the swamp? Professor Azzariti continues and analyses the first of the two issues: "Let's start with Parliament," he says. The perfect bicameralism has changed. Good. But do you really think - or do you want to make people believe - that the evils of parliamentarism can be dealt with by passing from perfect bicameralism to a confused bicameralism as it is what has been imagined? And here, of course, he refers to the legislative processes envisaged by the reform, which become, by one, even ten. And he goes on to say: Can one really delude ourselves that the crisis of the parliamentary system can only be tackled by intervening on the redistribution of functions and the composition of the two Chambers, not considering at all the structural reasons that are the basis of the emptying of parliamentary power? Let us try to understand the structural reasons for emptying parliamentary power. Well, Madam President, just to understand these structural reasons, I have collected data: data on the number of laws, data on their time to stay in Parliament before being promulgated. By the way, for training, I am a researcher, a scientist, and so for me the data is fundamental. If I have to analyze a problem and get the solutions, I have to start with the data, otherwise I don't understand anything and I'm just smashing and disgusting. Let's start with the number of laws in the various legislatures. Well, in the 16th legislature, the Italian Parliament passed 391 laws, of which 71 in 2011 and 102 in 2012. These are data I got from the Senate Studies Department. In order to make a comparison with other parliaments, because it is clear that we must also relate to realities present in other countries, the German Parliament passed 153 laws in 2011 and 128 in 2012, in a system where, care is taken, often we intervene with law for punctual interventions of normative maintenance. Therefore, it is a number comparable to that of the Italian Parliament. The French Parliament passed 111 laws in 2011, 82 in 2012. So, once again, they are comparable numbers, even smaller than the Italian ones. The Spanish Parliament passed only 50 laws in 2011 and only 25 in 2012. The British Parliament passed 25 laws in 2011 and 23 in 2012. A first figure jumps right to the eye. This perfect bicameralism, so much accused of being an impediment to the functioning of Parliament, is finally discovered, numbers in the hand, being now absolutely functional, in its role as legislator. The number of laws passed is exactly in line with those of other parliaments and, indeed, in some cases, even greater. On the famous shuttles, it has been said that the laws move like in a game of ping pong, going back and forth from the Chambers. Once again, numbers can help us to get a picture a little clearer than it actually does. Let us always refer to the 16th legislature (2008-2013) which, I remember, saw two governments: the Berlusconi IV Government and the Monti I Government. Well, of the 391 laws passed by that Parliament, 301 had only the two readings planned. Almost 80 percent of the laws did not require a shuttle; 75 laws required three readings. Thus, almost all of the laws have foreseen up to three readings; instead, 24 laws have had four readings. Among these laws that have had four readings there are major interventions (the provisions for economic development, the simplification of competitiveness, provisions for civil process), complex laws, which actually require four readings. Those very few who have returned more than three times to the Chambers are complex laws, so it was actually worth opening wider discussions. So for once again, Madam President, this false myth of bicameralism is denied as a proponent and promoter of ping pong and shuttles between one House and another. It's not like that. Times of law enforcement. Here is another mantra: the Italian Parliament is slow, bicameralism slows down the adoption of laws. There's some interesting data here. In the course of this legislature 188 laws were passed, in line with the 16th legislature. You think that on average, if you do the math, Parliament adopts three laws every two weeks, so it is quite efficient. Well, about the time of adoption of the laws, those of parliamentary origin in this legislature have taken an average of three hundred and ninety-two days, just over a year, to be approved. But the government bill actually only took 150 days, about five months. Here is a fundamental difference based on the origin of the laws: parliamentary laws against government laws. Of course, among the laws of government origin there are also decrees-laws: we know that these require by force of less time, sixty days. But if the latter are removed from the calculation, the laws of government origin still take two hundred and twenty days to be approved: much less than the three hundred and ninety days for laws of parliamentary origin. If we go back in time and instead consider the sixteenth legislature, we see that the time of approval of the laws of parliamentary origin was much less than in this legislature: it was about two hundred sixty days, if we do the average between the House and the Senate. So, we're talking about a little over eight months. The laws of government origin are also approved much faster - an average time of about forty days. Even if the decrees are executed once again, we have that the ordinary laws of a governmental nature were passed in the last legislature in an average time of sixty-seventy days, that is, just two months. If we go back again, to the 15th legislature, which lasted two years, that of the Prodi Government, here too the times of approval of the laws are extremely rapid: for those of parliamentary initiative only eighty days; for those of governmental origin even thirty-seven days of media: a Parliament Speedy Gonzales. If we go back again, to the 14th legislature, even here very normal approval times: the laws of parliamentary initiative took about two hundred and twenty days to be approved and those of governmental origin only forty-five days. Once again, if the decrees-laws are executed, the times of approval of the ordinary laws of government origin took only sixty days. So, ladies and gentlemen, where is the problem? Where is the problem of perfect bicameralism, if we know that the Italian Parliament is extremely efficient in law-making and can it also put absolutely reasonable times in it, how did it actually happen? What's the problem? He's somewhere else. Let us look at what Parliament is dealing with, for example, and what difference there is again between laws of government origin and laws of parliamentary origin. The government deals with economic measures, reforms, constitutional changes, foreign policy, while Parliament deals with minor issues: the establishment of committees, monuments and celebrations, ratifications of international treaties and delegations to the government. Once again, Parliament's real problem arises: this inequality, this diversity between laws of government origin and laws of parliamentary origin. A final figure, for all and above all: if we consider the percentage of approved laws of governmental origin and parliamentary origin, we come to the real core of the matter. In this parliamentary term 80% of the approved laws are of governmental origin and only 18% are of parliamentary origin. The same numbers are also evident in previous legislation. The question of trust was specifically dealt with in 30% of the laws that were passed. In particular, we have heavy assumptions of trust issues on important measures. Some measures, more significant, have required three votes of confidence: stability 2014, stability 2015, jobs act, reform of public administration and - take care - Italicum. The electoral law accompanying this constitutional reform required three votes of confidence in the House, in three different articles. In general, 30% of the approved decree-laws require a vote of confidence. Here we reach the core of the problem: the imposition of the question of trust on important measures, even on the electoral law, which has evoked, as we all know, embarrassing historical precedents (the Acerbo law, which was passed with a vote of confidence). I don't want to end up in the easy qualunquism, in demagogy, and give fascist to this or that; but I can't forget history. In the elections of 1921, carried out with a proportional system, there were coalition governments and Mussolini, who became President of the Council, devised a law in order to be able to diminish the role of Parliament. There is no authoritarian risk. My colleague, Mineo, preceded me. This time the project, as well as at the time, is to move the decisions elsewhere. Mussolini succeeded with a law that provided for proportional representation with a majority prize given to those who exceeded 25 percent of the votes. There was a great deal of discussion in the Chamber and in the Commission on this matter, in order to try to increase this threshold of the majority prize to 40% (that of the Italicum), but it was not possible at that time, because of the opposition of the Government. Well, today, ninety years later, the threshold is 40%, but the government with an escamotage, that of the ballot, has allowed to elude it. In fact, it is well known that, precisely because of the ballot and considering the reduction of the voters that most likely will occur at the round of ballots, a party with only 20% of the votes of the members on the electoral lists can actually obtain the majority, being in effect equivalent to that law Acerbo that was then, as we all know, the last electoral law to be applied in the elections. The subsequent elections, in fact, only included one ballot box with a yes and a no. Well, what is the cause of these reforms? Continue Azzariti in his speech: It is the form of parliamentary government that must be rethought, today suffering because of the imbalance in relations between the Government and Parliament. - the figures say - and we have seen it - imbalance in favour of the former and at the expense of the latter. The wise auditor, the true innovator, rather than favoring the involution by strengthening the powers of the Executive and further compressing those of the legislative, should do exactly the opposite. It is necessary to limit and regulate the government's overpower in Parliament, intervening on the unjustified flow of demands for confidence, on the urgent decree, on the maximendament, which humiliate the autonomy of Parliament and Members of Parliament; regulations should be rewritten, in order to regulate the parliamentary debate and avoid the contingent times that prevent confrontation; it would be necessary to assign to the opposition a well-defined statute and guarantee, thus hindering the obstructive practices sometimes improperly used; it is urgent to intervene on the organization of the work to redefine the relationship between the Commissions and the Chamber, relocating to the centre the Commissions - a true place of deepening and free discussion - compared to the House which now represents nothing more than a theatre of division, an empty and only spectacular representation of our parliamentary organ and our - often scalmanati - representatives. So writes Azzariti. Well, I do not want to deny the need for reform. I go even further: we discuss the perfect bicameralism. But, be careful, let us discuss this only once all these structural issues have been addressed. Given to the hand, once we have rethinked the Regulations, once we have redefined the role of the Commissions, then only a constitutional legislator, attentive to the reality of things and with the will to really solve the problems, will be able to call into question even the perfect bicameralism. To do it first, no; to do it first is suicide for democracy because we are moving once again - I repeat for the second time - the place of debates from Parliament to elsewhere and this is no longer a democracy. Madam President, I have never loved our Constitution as it is right now. I'll do a mea culpa. She, the Constitution, was there to exert her beneficial effects on our civil life; pulled with the jacket, sometimes reproached, sometimes betrayed, but she was there to regulate our civil life. And I - I confess and here lies the mea culpa - looked at her distractedly. Now, our Constitution is once again at risk. It is a real risk that I see and witness as part of this Parliament at a time when it is being put at risk. I see it; it's concrete; there's a risk. Now that it is at risk and that clumsy tampers are frightened on the horizon, because such are in the absence of a valid justification for a reform process that does not solve the problems; only now, mea culpa, I breathe deeply every syllable of our Constitution, connect the various pieces and enjoy the splendid and far-sighted design traced by those who have seen with their own eyes the horrors of the past century. Now defending her is my greatest commitment. There will be a new constituent season: when this referendum - as I hope - will fail this reform and a new constituent season will open. There will be time and time to start a debate on our Constitution again. Now and today, however, at this time, defending this Constitution is the greatest commitment. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u67	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u68	Madam President, this deformity - as I call it - does not serve to reduce the costs of politics because otherwise it would have accepted our proposals for half-time Members even in the House, which is more numerous, of half-wages. Nothing has been accepted. It does not even speed up the legislative process, otherwise a specific function would have been assigned to the Senate, so as to lift the House from some tasks and have two Chambers working in parallel without overlapping each other. Nor does it serve to give governability because the crucial node of governability are the turncoats, that is, the faculty that any elected person today has to betray the elective mandate, placing himself outside the coalition or the Group with which he was elected according to personal conveniences or mandates. So what's the point of this constitution? It serves to seal a drift that political propaganda has already instilled, passing concepts totally unrelated to our Constitution as premierate and as governor of the Region. It is helped in this, as a Trojan horse, also by the majority laws that, however, have a legitimacy when Regions and mayors have a limitation in the legislative and regulatory power. This semantic deformation, however, President, had to be surrounded at least by those components of the institutional architecture that had this specific task and that on the Constitution even in some cases swear. Because the most beautiful Constitution in the world - as it has been defined - identifies the Italian system as a parliamentary republic, that is, a system in which the representation of the popular will is entrusted to Parliament which, as elected and chosen directly by the people, is the holder of legislative action, elects the President of the Republic and legitimizes the Government, through the vote of confidence and, moreover, directs its action. With disgust, it was in these very classrooms that I was told that the formal Constitution is opposed to a Constitution in fact, the real one. These colleagues used to say it between the serious and the facet, as sometimes is done to jinx the naives. Ingenuous? None of us escaped that an unconstitutional electoral law had been promptly signed by the President of the Republic and that it was used for three elections, without anyone objecting and that they - their own, who gave us the lesson - appointed by a party secretary, embodied the betrayal of the Constitution and the popular will. We have denounced him for years, as we denounce the ad personam laws, well before the Constitutional Court judgments and before any other. Where's the ingenuity, then? No, Mr President, we cannot speak of naivety, so we cannot define knowing how to keep alive the ability to be indignant and not to give up in the face of the breakdown of things. There is no naivety in this. Piero Fassino tried to make us look illusory, when he said: make a party and let's see who votes for you. Here we are; and the more the walls of your ivory tower rise, the greater our strength and determination to defend the Constitution, bent and plagued, both in its non-application and in the revision process. Already today the Constitution is betrayed and the legislative power is usurped in various ways by the Government, sometimes in a subtle way, resorting to the right bugs - where is Senator Cociancich? - sometimes in a crude and brutal way, like good manzoni's memory. It has been recalled that 80% of the approved laws are of government initiative and how much the process of government-led billing is faster, than those of parliamentary initiative, with one exception, which confirms the rule: the so-called bill Boccaduttri, formally of parliamentary initiative, but basically wanted to cover the responsibilities of the Government, which had knowingly failed to provide the necessary resources to the committees that verified the statements of the parties, so that they were able to collect, without any control, public funding. Well, in this rancid legislative stock, the presence of innumerable abuses by the Government on the vote of confidence and the decree of urgency is extremely impressive. These are unconstitutional, irrational abuses, often imposed to correct previous errors, or completely useless, where there are then no implementing decrees, and therefore good only to exhaust the ephemeral time of advertising. All this, however, is not enough: on public appointments, from the Presidency of ISTAT to that of the Council of State, passing through the very delicate one of the Board of Directors of RAI, the Government wanted to impose its Diktat, revealing its face. What Renzi calls destruction is actually a system of eviction and personal occupation of the state's vital ganglia. Not satisfied, Matteo Renzi has centralized further powers and competences in the Presidency of the Council and forfeited resources, as we have seen in the Law Madia of Public Administration Reform. Already today, therefore, we are living in a de facto premiere. Why, then, amend the Constitution? Because what is happening today is based solely on the ignovia, the selective blindness of the righteous, who should watch and turn the head or the bow, but the system is not perfect and someone could, as happened by the electoral law or by the blocking of pensions, block the gear and reveal us that the king is naked. With this reform, this will become impossible or difficult. The Renzi-Boschi reform completes, seals and crystallizes the path marked in recent years, giving the majority party all powers. It is a sanatorium to the de facto occupation of a power (the executive one), the legislative power and the judicial one; a sanatoria that will make legal what is illegal. That is why we are talking about honesty, because legality is now empty, it is even a dangerous screen that hides the dangers and enemies of democracy. In other countries there are systems that favour governing democracy rather than the representation of citizens, but they have counterweights so that this power does not become overpowering. In the United States and France it is often the case that the President is an expression of a party and the parliamentary majority has a different matrix; none of this is provided for in the absolute premierate which comes from the art-made tension of the electoral law signed at the Nazarene and from this deformity of the Parliament, which gives to the Head of Government, supported by the first party, the absolute control of the majority of parliamentarians, no longer chosen by the citizens but appointed, once again appointed. We will have a reverse Constitution: no longer a Parliament that gives confidence to governments, but only one man to the command that gives (let's call it so) confidence in time to parliamentarians, one of those leashes for small dogs extending or shortenable at the discretion of the dominus. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The legislative process will essentially be governed by the Executive, putting the House of Deputies in a corner. The marginalization even becomes humiliation where the Commission will, among others, have the power to impose on Parliament its laws, its priorities. Seventy days will be allowed to do what the Government wants: this is the so-called voting institution on a certain date. You see that in this case the mechanism of delegation and ownership of the legislative power are reversed. It's all above: how can you not feel nausea in this vertigo? As for the guarantee bodies, the President of the Republic and the Constitutional Court, according to the new mechanisms, will be the expression of the Government, rather than of a party secretary, since precisely the Democratic Party has established in its statute that these two figures, for their political strength, will have to coincide. The absolute Premier will have (see, Madam President, the result of this drift: if I myself come to say Premier, it means that we really have reached the semantic marasma) 80% of the Members, of the nominations of guarantee and will affect even more than today on the legislative process. The underlying approach behind it is not aimed at revising the Constitution, but at overcoming it. So one enters a new territory, that of simple decisions, because by law the Government and also the legislative power are attributed to one person. What about the control organs? I am concerned about the militarisation of the Constitutional Court. What we have witnessed in recent months and years, i.e. statements contrary to the Government's will on the electoral law and on the blocking of pensions, could be deactivated from the start. It is here that strong powers should have a precise, efficient transmission chain and that citizens should be excluded: it is the implicit abolition of Article 1 of the Constitution. Who are these powers? I say this clearly: I am talking about banks, multinationals, but also Masonic powers, often intertwined with them and with political power. How can we fail to note the disturbing assonances between the institutional project of the P2 cosca and this deforma? How can we fail to note the disturbing relations that still emerge between the banker Boschi, father of the Minister, and people close to the new P3? How can we forget the new world order to which I have heard reference in this House precisely from those who have sworn on the Constitution and in fact are an inspiration for this reform? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This reform therefore serves as a sanatorium to make the Constitutional Charter corresponding to a virulent, sick practice, a design that has nothing to do with national interest, however, has nothing to do with the true reforms that could lead us to occupy a more appropriate place in the European Union but which is boasted by President Renzi whenever he interlogues with the true architects and conductors of the euro system. Of course, he will say, I have not done what my country needs but I am doing what it needs to arm the Treaties, to expropriate the critical forces towards this hegemonized monetary union, those who advocate the recovery of food, monetary and democratic sovereignty to the Italian people. This reform serves to arm the chain of command, I said, that from Europe strangles our economy and of which Matteo Renzi thinks to become an essential gear. Now, Mr President, all I have to say is how this deformity is imposed: with the forcing, the abuse, the blitzes allowed, allow me, from those who had the task of protecting, from you and the people who occupy your seat from time to time. How many times have we called on the President of the Senate to exercise this protection in order to avoid the guillotines on the debate, the kangaroos, the forcings of the Rules of Procedure, the calendarizations that have disappeared. We have asked for the intervention of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the President - I am talking about the role - has often dematerialized, abdicating to the dictatorship of the majority, claiming that the House was sovereign even where it was primarily its prerogative to intervene and decide. [[Applause from Senator Donno]] I'm sorry you're not here, but I'd like to ask where Piero Grasso went, who was able to decide, in a delicate affair, that the Senate was a civil part. In these last few hours we have asked for at least the last gesture, so that we do not allow the offices of the Commissions to be used as an element of commodity, as an exchange for a vote on the reform. This is the horrendous suspicion that no one wanted or could clear. The President refused, he also bears the name of Peter and now the rooster has sung for the third and last time. I regret this direct attack because many, many others, would be the subjects to be nailed to their responsibilities, but I want to use the remaining time to illustrate, in addition to the passive subjects, also the active subjects. This deformity bears the name of Maria Elena Boschi, Minister for Reforms. From 2011 to the Commissariat on 11 February 2015, due to a three billion hole (six times the equity) the father, Pierluigi Boschi, was on the Board of Directors of Banca Etruria becoming president as soon as the daughter became Minister. Not only that, the minister was a shareholder and his brother was an employee of the bank. Bank Etruria was commissary, but subordinated bonds were still sold to unsuspecting and blameless savers. Bank of Italy, noting, then, the strong increasing criticalities and a disastrous situation, imposed fines for two and a half million euros to the board of directors and, of these, 144,000 also to Pierluigi Boschi, for lack of organization in the internal controls, poor management and control of the credit, violations in the matter of transparency, omitted and incorrect reports. Bank Etruria was a dead bank long before the police station, yet it continued to spend up to EUR 15 million a year on external advice. From the end of October 2014 to January 2015 the Bank's crisis broke out, but many, suddenly, start buying shares, convinced that from March those shares will be worth much more. Why? Soon the Renzi Government, by decree, transformed the popular banks with at least 8 billion assets into public limited companies and to make more money is Bank Etruria, which records on the stock exchange the best performance of the year: more 62 percent in a short time. The Minister Boschi, during the Council of Ministers that quickly passed the decree, was not there, was absent, but here his presence is indeed felt, because the Government is a team and everyone has its task. The second thought on the active subjects of this reform goes to the voters. At second reading in the Senate, presumably, the drawing will pass with the votes of a group of fugitives. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. Time's up. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, I am almost done. Outside of Forza Italia and headed by Denis Verdini, involved in numerous judicial events: Maddalena case (the charge of competition in corruption); P3 case, already named (the return to trial for corruption); L'Aquila case acquitted, but case of the Florentine Cooperative Credit referral to trial for fraud and bankruptcy; case of the property in Via della Stamperia (the return to trial for illicit financing and fraud); and, again, case of the contract of the Scuola marscialli; case of Tuscany editions. Are these the decisive votes for reform? All this is happening because, on the one hand, an elected Parliament with a declared unconstitutional law is bowing to the logic that brought it here; and, on the other, because the minority of the Democratic Party remains here, perhaps concerned about its political survival, forgetting that, then, everything and everyone will be overwhelmed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Not my words, which will remain here, not our testimony that, however things go, will be mirrored. We have a future to deliver to the country and someone's hands will continue to clean them; others will deal with history. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u69	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u70	Madam President, a constitutional reform is generally adopted by a constituent assembly or, through the revision procedure provided for in our Constitution in Article 138, which presupposes the pursuit of the widest possible convergences. I was shocked by the attitude of the Democratic Party, which is the result of two political components which formed the democracy of our country and which, however, have forgotten it. In fact, in this legislature, which has been declared unconstitutional in its composition, with a never elected President of the Council and which has its legitimacy only from an internal election of party, we have had an indicative choice not only of constitutional reform, but also of the modalities and times of approval. The absence of many people to the debate at this time also stems from an unsavory choice of the majority party, which rejected the request to devote three days to the debate, for which it was also last night. I can say this out loud because my party, despite having 180 votes in this House in the last parliamentary term, has guaranteed the approval of a constitutional reform unanimously, thanks to that intelligent, cultural, scientific contribution by President Finocchiaro, President Calderoli, Senator Quagliariello and others. Today, however, the Democratic Party has not had a capacity for constitutional intelligence. It has already been pointed out that Parliament can be emptied of its substance either through constitutional reform or even, as Mussolini did, through an election system capable of emptying Parliament, precisely, of content, power and functions. What is done in this reform without any legitimacy? You have no right to change the Constitutional Charter on which I have sworn. It is a Constitutional Charter based on values that are common and balance between powers. What is our Constitutional Charter? It's not just about constitutional bodies, it's about all the individual joints in our country where power is exercised. And if, according to constitutional principles, those bodies through which state power is exercised must not overflow from their powers, it is an equally sacred and fundamental rule of our Constitution that recognizes the principle of mutual control between the various organs. This principle cannot be avoided by those in charge of those organs through instrumental agreements, in order to achieve party interests, interests of pressure groups, power groups and secret associations. In this logic, the weakening of the Senate means legitimizing those forces, those lobbying. This is a serious responsibility that you assume, because the problem is not only about the election of the Senate (which you have made useless anyway). Yet, in the bicameralism that you claim to have eliminated, you confer on him a regular and institutional presence on constitutional changes, on some fundamental laws. As it happens, one of the great insights of this Assembly - having included some fundamental principles of bicameralism that were to remain, including Articles 29 and 30 of the Constitution - has been eliminated. Why? None of you can give me an answer, because there isn't. There is only one answer: that of the master of the steam who intended to determine, through the electoral system, the non possibility of control. It will be enough a magic wand to get 340 votes in the House to whoever won the election, because Renzi wanted these rules thinking they were useful to himself, but they may be useful to someone else. Anyone in that position will be tempted to turn this country into a creeping dictatorship. The legislative project that we had presented in 2012 was even copied, but emptying it, also in this case, making the Senate vote consultative. Madam President Finocchiaro, what is the connection with the President of the Republic? What balance is there that the Government also invests? I could agree to strengthen executive power over legislative power, but I do not agree with the idea of shifting the institutional centre of gravity from Parliament to the Government, because the uncontrolled Executive becomes a dictatorship even if it is not named after it. This is at a time when we should have strengthened instruments of guarantee, such as the President of the Republic and the Constitutional Court. Two members of the Constitutional Court will be elected to the Senate, but by whom? Who many times will represent, through lobbying, particular territorial and localistic interests. Does this, in your opinion, mean guarantee? This is a crazy way of reforming the state. I did not call for the establishment of a constituent Assembly, but only for the possibility of effective participation of citizens. The ethic of responsibility, by which we are held responsible for what we do with acts in the legislative classrooms, cannot be translated according to the President-in-Office's vulgate. It is said that the number of Members has been reduced. Since it may be that someone, not in this House but outside, does not know, and so it is good that you remember that in 2012 we unanimously proposed a reduction in the number of members of the Senate to 250 and that of the Chamber of Deputies to 450, thus providing for a greater reduction in the number of Members of Parliament than is done today. But the aim was not this, nor that of guaranteeing a faster legislative process, because, as Senator Bocchino mentioned earlier, the time for the approval of a bill in our country is equal to one hundred and one days. Either you're ignorant, or you pretend to be ignorant, and you want to sell something... [[The microphone light flashes.]] Of course, Madam President, I understand that you are interrupting me, but I must say...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u71	Unfortunately, that's my job, Senator Caliendo.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u72	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I have to say that those who, like me and you, have read the acts of the constituent Assembly, have seen that the debate, the debate and the possibility of fully expressing their ideas present then today are no longer allowed because of the quota of the time and because the President of the Council (I repeat: not Parliament, but the President of the Council and therefore its majority) decided that at 5 p.m. explanations of vote should begin and then proceed to the vote. At that time I will say no, and I will do the same in the referendum, which I have already joined through the committee. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, M5S and CoR groups and Senator Stefani. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u73	As you know, Senator Caliendo, you have decided on the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u74	[[Senator Taverna's comments.]] CASTALDI (M5S). It takes your back straight to decide! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Fornaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I would like to start by starting with a reflection and a paradox that we are experiencing. Never so much trust in the world is placed today in democracy. Research conducted in 57 countries (or 85% of the world's population) indicates that the world's citizens, 91.6%, identify democracy as a good way to rule their own country. It wasn't always like that. At the end of the Second World War there were only 12 democracies worthy of this name; they rose to 44 in 1972 and 72 in 1993, while today there are 117 out of 195 countries, of which 90 actual democracies. But where is the paradox? It is in the fact that precisely in the historical phase in which democracy becomes predominant, precisely when it wins over authoritarianism and totalitarianism, representative democracy is under check, it is under attack. In the main European and Western nations the urn tributaries are declining, the temptation to shortcut the strong leader grows, institutions and parties are at the lowest levels of confidence. In essence, institutions and parties are accused of being substantially useless, of not affecting, and decisions are taken elsewhere, in institutions not elected by citizens. That is why overcoming the bicameralism of equality is now a must to strengthen democracy, not to weaken it: because in the times in which we live, those of globalization, there is a need for authoritative democratic institutions, democratically legitimized and able to give answers in the times dictated by contemporaryism. Today we are at the last reading of the bill of constitutional reform for the Senate and thought can only go to the extraordinary work of the Constituents, accomplished in a short time and with extraordinary results in terms of national cohesion and strengthening and maintaining democratic institutions. That is why the referendum should and must be an opportunity for democratic confrontation of a mature country, a confrontation on the merits of the proposals for reform, and it would be wrong to transform it, I say it forcefully, on one hand and on the other, into a sort of ordain, a rustic duel, on the one hand, with apocalyptic visions and insults and, on the other, the transformation of the referendum into a pronunciation on itself. The referendum is and must remain on the reforms: the pronunciation on the government's activities, in democracy, is called elections. Today a good Constitution must find a correct and efficient balance between governance and representation; that is why overcoming the perfect bicameralism goes in the right direction. The Senate, however, must not be interpreted as a sort of after-work or be lived as an old tool of a time that was, but as a tool to make more effective both the legislative activity and the representation of the territories. At this point, the source of legitimacy of the new Senate, which must hold together a territorial legitimacy (the Regions) and the electoral body, becomes fundamental. Article 2 of the text that we are going to vote amends Article 57 of the Constitution and, in paragraph 2, provides that the Regional Councils elect the senators, while paragraph 5 specifies that this must be done in accordance with the choices expressed by the citizens. On this point we discussed and today, together with twenty-three other colleagues, we deposited a bill, provided for in paragraph 6 of the new Article 57 of the Constitution, on the rules for the election of the Senate of the Republic, in order to try to keep together the dual legitimacy of the new senators: the territorial one, being their regional advisers, and that of the citizens, respecting the choices expressed by the latter. A proposal that strengthens the new Senate, representation and the overall structure of reforms. The adoption of this bill would also be an effective response to criticism, which is not entirely unfounded, according to which the combined arrangement of the new electoral law of the House and a bad electoral law for the Senate would give a majority of parliamentarians not chosen by the citizens, but appointed. The proposal is very simple: on the day of the regional elections citizens should receive two ballots, the first for the election and renewal of the regional councils and the new President of the Region, the second for choosing the senators assigned to that Region, having first, very banally, divided the regional territory into as many colleges as the senators assigned to the Region itself. (15.45) (Follows FORNARO). In this way, by giving absolutely proportional votes, transformed into seats, to the individual lists, we would make an internal ranking on each list and the best percentage results of the colleges would represent the ranking that would basically give the names of the elected. And at the first session of the Regional Council, basically, as the Regional Council takes note of the election results for the Regional Council, it would also take note of the results of the choices made by the citizens. We expect there to be positive signs on this proposal of ours, which is an ideal continuation of the battle made by us to include that famous amendment to paragraph 5 of Article 2: positive signals, starting with the Government, because it would not be understood, I say it with great clarity to the Subsecretaries present, a stronghold on electoral models for the election of the new Senate, provided for by paragraph 6 of Article 57, or on other models, such as lists. These would be read as a camouflage, as a nomination of the new senators, with exactly the same damage produced with the Porcellum, which was one of the leaders of the fall of the representativeness of the Senate and the House and has surely increased the gap between citizens and institutions, between citizens and their representatives. I will conclude where I started: today we need authoritative, legitimate institutions capable of responding in times of contemporaneity. But constitutionalist Ainis reminded us a few days ago that every constitutional revision called a principle of reform is not the whole reform. This reform refers in decisive passages, Ainis recalls, to the ordinary law, starting precisely from the electoral matter. And on this, both in a desirable modification of the Italicum that eliminates the blocked capitalists, and by adhering to this proposal of model of election of the senators, we will give a very strong, clear and clear answer, and I think we would thus pave the way for a victory of the referendum, especially to return to the heart of the problem. The heart of the problem is precisely overcoming the perfect bicameralism. For these reasons I shall vote in favour, but I will remind myself, my party and my government, that a good constitution must be accompanied by a good electoral law. Because if a good Constitution is accompanied by a bad electoral law then it can become, in practice, a bad Constitution. That is why we, together with other colleagues and - I believe - the Italians all have the right to know in detail the electoral law for the new Senate before the referendum, in order to be able to fully express a judgment on the maximum opportunity provided by the constituents in Article 138 in the coming autumn. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u76	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u77	Mr President, with some embarrassment, with great dissatisfaction, both as a citizen and as a representative of the electorate, I am returning to speak on this draft law for the reform of our Constitutional Charter. Every time this House comes back to deal with the reforms, the debate, rather than focusing on the merit of the reform itself, tends increasingly to focus on the perverse direction of the government, the inappropriate accelerations and the blind compression of every parliamentary dialectics. All these considerations confirm, once again, that for the PD and the Government it was not a question of carrying out a real draft revision of the Constitution, but we were looking for only a symbol, a spot reform to root the electoral consensus of a Government born in the incubator of the primaries for the election of the Secretary of the Democratic Party, but never legitimized by the people. Renzi and his gangherati associates, with the Nazarene first and with the Verdinian tutoring then, have dismantled the constituent season, started with fatigue in the spring of 2013 and, avoiding any confrontation with the opposition parliamentary forces, have imposed a model of armored reform, modified in the first parliamentary passages only in some marginal aspects, and complementary to the perverse electoral law passed last year. What a constituent legislature! The current government took the same path as the 2001 (Title V) and 2005 reforms, which were characterized by the unilateral imposition by the majorities of the time and by a lack of sharing with the social and political forces outside them. And the results of those attempts are well known to all of us: the reform of Title V has produced a number of negative consequences, whose effects are unfortunately destined not to be exhausted. The Berlusconi Government's attempt in 2005, indeed much more balanced than the current draft law, ended with the sinking of the 2006 referendum. And just starting from this last failure, the current Premier - aware of the deficit of participation and sharing recorded in the present reform - focuses everything on the referendum next autumn, trying to turn it into a plebiscite on its increasingly weak leadership. Constitutional reform, therefore, becomes only an electoral instrument: the Constitutional Charter transformed into a form, a spreadsheet for an electoral poll. It never happened. They change and transform important parts of our fundamental Charter only to allow the demagogic and electoral games of Renzi and his acolytes. Thus it is explained that, for a few days already, the Premier has started the referendum campaign, a period of ten months in which Italian politics will be enraged by an incandescent opposition between supporters and opponents of the reforms. Meanwhile, Italy's problems will remain in the background. The Government, committed to supporting the referendum, is already neglecting - and will do so throughout 2016 - the serious problems of our country. In the face of an unproductive and painful confrontation with Europe, the questions concerning everyday life of Italians remain unresolved. Only by way of example, the thousands of savers of the four banks remain unanswered so far, despite the government's repeated promises over the past few weeks. They are still waiting to know the citizens and workers of Taranto what will become of Ilva and if, after the failure of the decree-law (still in the process of conversion), we have another to lengthen the agony of the ionic factory. And what will happen, with regard to referendums, in all coastal regions affected by drilling: will the Descalzi-Guidi line prevail or that of the governors, with the Premier struggling to pursue even the last decisions of the Constitutional Court in the role of incapable referee, who changes tactics every week? And the many times assumed resumptions of consumption and gross domestic product? With an inert and irreconclusive government (all taken from the meetings and referendums) it will be difficult for an improvement of the economic conditions of our country to be recorded. Yet countries such as Spain and Ireland (which have experienced a much more serious crisis than ours in recent years) have reversed the trend with significantly more significant numbers. What about our maròs? And our hesitant foreign policy, which sees us passive spectators even of what happens just a few steps from home, in the southern Mediterranean? All these questions, along with many others, will unfortunately remain unanswered, since the President-in-Office of the Council will have to turn the Peninsula, from country to country, to support his referendum, his fanciful plebiscite. But this is not constitutional reform, but only an empty election campaign for the selfish affirmation of one's individual political interests. These reasons lead us to support our position against this reform. For the truth, it is a matter of repeating what we, Conservatives and Reformists, have declared since August 2014, when in the Forza Italia Group we had the courage to distance ourselves from the Nazarene Pactum Sceleris, declaring all our perplexities about the bill today at our examination. We did it almost alone, being pointed out negatively by the Roman-Green duo. The time, however, was gallant man: most of the Group of Forza Italia, beginning with President Romani himself, then aligned itself to our position, resoundingly denying the agreements contained in the Nazarene contract. Verdini, for his part, has instead dropped every veil of hypocrisy and has passed, weapons and luggage, in the compagine renziana, returning to the Grand Duchy. It is a bitter observation, but in summer 2014 we had seen right. The pact concluded by Berlusconi and Renzi was the worst shop with which we tried to give political support to a bad reform of our institutions. In addition to these considerations, the reasons for why we are opposed to this reform remain intact. On all, we repeat it again, great attention must be paid to the perverse effect that the new constitutional architecture, adding to the predictions of the new electoral law (the Italicum), will entail for our system. Those who win the elections will be able to dominate our institutions - as many colleagues have said - by directly electing or effectively influencing the highest positions of the State. In the name of a declared efficiency, the majority party will control not only Parliament (as well as it is lawful), but all the most important institutions, from the President of the Republic to the Council. I ask the PD members: with Italicum and reform of the Constitution, how many ad personam laws could be passed in the near future? Finally, I would like to reiterate here the regret for the total lack of confrontation and dialogue that has characterized this reform, which, in different circumstances, we would have liked to make our contribution. As I have been able to represent in the previous debate in October, our Group has tried to bring corrective measures to the text of the draft law, with amendments which I do not exaggerate to define quality. We have proposed that the principle of the tax ceiling be included in the text of the Constitution, i.e. the introduction of a maximum threshold of tax pressure capable of protecting the taxpayer and preventing the perverse actions of governments. We have suggested that the concept of so-called infrastructural equalization be fixed, in order to harmonize growth between the different areas of the country (the rich and evolved ones and those lagging and backward from the socio-economic point of view). Noteworthy was also the proposal to include and regulate the primaries, as a constitutional instrument for the democratic selection of the new ruling classes: quality amendments - I said - and, perhaps because little demagogic and too constructive, completely ignored by the majority. Also for these reasons, in addition to the reasons for the opportunity highlighted at the beginning of my speech, our no to the bill will once again be strong and convinced. We will continue not to bow to the weak arguments of the government and we will continue our strong opposition, with the serious and responsible style that has characterized us over the last two years, to which is opposed the harmful overtachism and the narcissistic vanagloria of the President-in-Office of the Council. [[Applause from the CoR Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u78	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u79	Mr President, a reflection seems to be necessary, now at the end of this general debate. I would like to ask you, Mr President, and rhetorically, through your person, to the whole Senate, how it is possible that we have been debating here for more than fifteen hours and the debate outside is totally absent from the state media and totally absent from the media. This is first and foremost the reading figure within which we must place this closure of constitutional change. I refuse to talk about reform in this case, meaning the word "reform" as something that changes for the better. What happens, Mr President? It happens that the President of the Council of Ministers Renzi is very skilled in exploiting the shadow cones and is very skilled in exploiting the opportunities that politics, over the years, has made possible today, to go to modify the Constitution without even the people themselves being aware of it. I have not seen outside, colleagues, the violet people, the fuchsia people, the orange people, the roundabouts, those who jump the counter; I have not seen anyone. The question then arises as to why the Constitution is being amended, if people do not feel that it is necessary. Then perhaps the question is that the President-in-Office of the Council must constantly feed and feed public opinion on deception. We have seen it with the jobs act and with the other so-called pseudo-reforms and changes of law such as good school, taxes and all his other statements that were to have a strong impact on the economy of the country and that, instead, nothing has changed. In this case too, what is done? It is allowed to believe that, with this constitutional change, the country will have the cards in order to gear a strong recovery, so, without hurting, a constitutional reform that upsets the democratic burdens and counterweights in the total indifference of the people, giving to the meal to those who are interested in the conviction that this is in the usefulness of democracy and citizens. But what is the scenario within which this constitutional change is embodied? I see that Mr Scalfarotto, instead of Minister Boschi, has appeared for a few hours now, and he will reasonably appear with the President of the Council of Ministers Renzi in the final moments. President, the moments at which we are concluding this constitutional reform are accompanied by headlines in the newspapers that tell us about the scandal of Banca Etruria: "Speak the man of mysteries: my favors to Boschi" A secret association behind Etruria and Daddy Boschi. If the truth about Boschi comes out, the government blows up. These are January 16 titles. We are talking about the same government that presented the reform to the Chambers and that wants to modify the democratic Constitution. These are the presuppositions that lie at the base of those who will be the future constituent Fathers, with the addition of the always very careful hand that lies behind the scenes of Senator Verdini. This is the free country in which this Parliament and this Senate try to raise their voices to make them understand the risk of authoritarian drift behind this amendment of the Constitution. And how many changes have this legislature characterized? How many people, who were proudly opposed in the first readings to the constitutional change suddenly, electrocuted like St Paul on the road to Damascus, converted to the constitutional change for the good of the country? When it comes to corruption, it's no wonder. If we are talking about senators who change their minds to wait for a little bit in some Commission, it is no wonder. But I ask you again rhetorically, Mr President, to ask all the senators: is this a constituent spirit? Is this a spirit that should give the country new democratic momentum and self-confidence? Or are the very well-designed maneuvers of an autocrate that, by exploiting these shadow cones, builds for itself and for its acolytes an autocratic power management system? This is what is happening. There will be no more weights and counterweights; there will no longer be the ability of citizens to choose who will sit in this Senate, with good peace of Senator Fornaro and of all that part of the Democratic Party minority that initially let believe that there was still something real in the democratic term of the party. Why did you fold? That you have bent makes it clear that some of you (Senator Tocci and others) have not changed your position by remaining indefessed and firm in a line of defense of those values of democratic constitution that still characterize this country today. You see, President, in the past days I have heard myself ask why, as a Legist Senator, I should defend the Constitution of the Italian Republic. On the other hand, I wonder how it is possible that, on the same line, the League, the 5 Star Movement, SEL, Forza Italia and other parts of the Mixed Group are simultaneously located. How is that possible? This means that what is being called into question is not something superficial with respect to the Constitution, but it is something essential, that is, democratic characters and popular participation, the characteristics of distinction between democracy and autocracy, between expressed democracy and oligarchy. This is what we are fighting and, if I am here with other colleagues, it is because some of the citizens are against the government's opinion and I want and want to continue to give these citizens the right to stand, which will be compromised by the adoption of this constitutional change, together with Italicum. This is what we're doing in here, suffocated by a direction that wants to put a mess - as it did - in this debate. But this direction will not be able to put an end to the democratic referendum, which will take place next autumn. It hurts - indeed it does good! - the President-in-Office of the Council to put the responsibility for this referendum on his own, removing the debate from the agenda and bringing it to his own attention. Anyone who votes will have to speak for or against Matthew Renzi. Then I turn to all those citizens who have been deceived so far, because they have lost their pension, because they have spent years waiting at school and today they find themselves without having any right, because they told them that taxes would be reduced and today they cannot reach the end of the month, because they are being made to believe that the country has worked a recovery when, unfortunately, we are still waiting for economic policies to support recovery. I say to all these citizens that this will be the time to give a turning point to the country, to recover, with a democratic voice, the Government. This autocrate was not elected: it's in there, after he crowned himself. He put himself in charge of the government, replacing and taking out a colleague from his own party. This is the credibility of the person, who said to his colleague, "Stay calm" and the next day stabbed him in the back. This is the credibility, dear Senator Fornaro, which lets you believe today that before the amendment and referendum there will be a law, which will say that citizens can choose, without choosing, who will sit in the Senate. We discussed this a few hours ago and it was so simple to adhere to the proposed amendments that we have tabled here, providing that the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies, reduced in number, are chosen by universal suffrage by the citizens and not by the secretariat of the PD. That is the difference between what you are doing and what we want for the people, so that the people can choose. If it is so easy, why didn't you write that he will be elected by universal suffrage? Mr President, there are a lot of things that are not going back to this constitutional change. Just reading a few days ago a speech given by Dossetti, in 1994, in Bologna, I found some questions, which I would like to renew to this House. Dossetti asked himself: "Where did the Italian Constitution come into force on January 10, 1948?" What is its deepest root? Some think that the Constitution is a pungent flower born almost by chance from an arid soil of post-war disbandments and fateful resentments turned to the past. Others think that it arises from an anti-fascist ideology actually cultivated by certain minorities, who had lived mainly from exiles the years of fascism. Others (...) refer to the resistance with which Italy may have found its honour and in a certain way approved itself to a certain national culture. And so one could continue for a long time in the review of opinions either wrong or insufficient. In reality, the Italian Constitution was born and inspired - as and more than any other very few constitutions - by a great global fact, that is the six years of the Second World War. That is why I am asking today, Mr President, where is the constitutional reform that we are examining, who are its inspirations? Are they the same people who are hiding the disasters of Banca Etruria? Are they the same people who are fooling citizens about the real state of the country? Is it the same President of the Council of Ministers who sends his friend Calenda to Europe, thinking that he can compensate for his total absence of contractual force against a Europe that is crushing this country? Or, Mr President, the inspiration was found in the 17 pages in my hand, those which were seized in 1981 and which tell of the plan of democratic rebirth. The inspiration has been found in these pages in which Parliament's order is clearly written, that the electoral laws must be revised and, for the Senate, that must be of representation of second degree and regional; moreover it is written that the Constitutional Court, the President of the Republic and the Regions must be revised, with a modification of the Constitution in order to reduce its number and determine its boundaries according to geoeconomic criteria more than historical. Is it in these pages that they found inspiration? Is this the plan of democratic rebirth that you are being inspired by? Is this the inspiration that informed your hand, Senator Cociancich? I say this because he has been very good at making his contribution of ideas (I quote his words); a contribution that has been made to lend his name to a providential hand coming from Palazzo Chigi, who has signed in his place a document that at second reading has taken away from oppositions any possibility of intercourse in this House and of which we are still waiting today, Mr President, the original. In fact, one thing can be said about this Constitution for sure: it was written based on false, false, deceitful. [[Applause from Senator Gaetti]] That is the difference between the 1948 Constitution and the one you are approving here; a Constitution whose amendments the Senators cannot submit because they do not exist. Once again, I regret not having found in the function of the President of the Senate that balance we have so many times hoped for. President Grasso, who is certainly listening to us, would have been able to demonstrate that this institution has autonomy and independence; he could have done so in many ways, but essentially in one: respecting the Rules of the Senate, of which we have asked for application and respect. 16:13 p.m. (Candians follow). I am referring to the Rules of Procedure which, when it was useful to do so, unfortunately was adapted to the needs of the majority and which, when it was useful to do so, was torn to gag the opposition. In here are the humiliations suffered by the Senate and, addressing the senators who have been forced to carry out their interventions in the empty Chamber, I say that that humiliation is nothing compared to what the whole institution has undergone with the constitutional change under discussion, because all the precedents that have been endorsed are a slap in the previous republican history and are certainly an impediment to democratic exercise for the future. President, we refuse to believe that this could be the Senate of the Republic. We are still convinced that there may be a surge of democracy and pride in this House and that the 161 votes needed to amend the Constitution may still fail. It will depend on the choice of senators who have bowed so far to the choices of the government and I tell the colleagues of the New Right Center: just have this autocrate use you! Don't expect gratitude the next day, you won't be redeployed, don't expect gratitude on civil unions, you'll be bent. Do the only thing you can do today: stand out from this gang and let Verdini's senators guarantee the majority that is needed to amend the Constitution because those are the Pharisees and scribes who have said one thing and made another, bending now for the interest of the shop and for the personal interest that nothing has to do with the defence of the citizens that we should implement here. This constitutional change, Mr President, and I shall conclude, should be done by looking at what is written on the ceiling of this House and perhaps the government looks too little: it says fortress, it says right, it says harmony. And the constitutional reform of 1948 was approved with 90% of the consensus while today we will barely reach the absolute majority. That cannot be said to be a democratic path. Finally, justice is written on this ceiling, but justice in here is dead and you are killing it in front of the citizens. I say to those who will vote against this reform: remember what Churchill said: we won the war because we never realized that we had already lost it. You don't stop fighting, you go through with it and we'll go through with it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u80	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u81	Mr President, honourable representative of the Government, fellow senators, the Senate is at the last stage of its journey. I hope, like the previous speaker, that we will not get a majority in the vote tonight, and so I hope that, in these three months of reflection, there will be many colleagues who, unlike me, have changed their views on the substance of this bill. I should therefore like to repeat what I said in my previous speech. However, I believe that, as Senator Romani said when we discussed the calendar, this could be the Senate's farewell to itself deserved a less vulgar atmosphere than the one in which it took place. In these days, we have the thunderous protagonism of a President-in-Office of the Council who is happy because he announces a return of Italy to Europe. It does not seem to me that way, and above all, it does not seem to me to operate in this sense the constitutional reform of which he boasts so much. What seems even more painful to me is that for at least twenty days, the Senate vote is taken for granted and the House vote in three months' time and a political confrontation is announced on the Constitution between the President of the Council and the rest of the country. I think that this House has a duty to say goodbye to a part of the history of Italy with much greater composure than that to which President Grasso has forced the progress, the times and the developments of our debate. The Senate, the Italian one, the royal one, the non-elective one, was born in the prediction of a disaster: it was thought that the great Sicilian and Piedmontese aristocracy would be taken away. I remember the words of the Prince of Salina: we are not interested in being senators, we are cats, others are jackals. The prince of Salina was wrong rotten: that Senate, those appointments, made at the beginning of the Kingdom, were of the first order and the place that in the history of Italy occupies the Royal Senate is more than dignified, even when it had to lend - let us think of the defeat in the war of 1866 - to the dirtier work, that of jurisdiction over Admiral Persano. Yet in the history of Italy there is an ancient anti-parliamentaryism. I do not know whether it is really anti-parliamentaryism or disappointment about the unity of Italy. Let's think of that beautiful journalistic reportage, "I moribundi del Palazzo Carignano" (the Chamber was spoken of) by Petruccelli della Gattina: a text of anti-parliamentaryism was judged for some generations. No, it wasn't like that at all. In order to remain at the playground of Sicilian literature, a much stronger anti-parliamentaryism, directed towards the Chamber and not towards the Senate, was that of a great Italian writer, Federico De Roberto, in the pages of "L'imperio" (we are in the Giolittiana age, in the second half of the nineteenth century, 1895): the novel takes place all in Montecitorio and the protagonist leans on what seems to him a reference marble and realizes that it is cardboard. This anti-parliamentaryism has often accompanied the history of Italy. Let's think of that lay revolt against Parliament, led by Gabriele D'Annunzio, against Giolitti, who brought Italy to war on 24 May 1915. Three years ago, a willing friend, Minister Quagliariello, led with expert hands by the magisterium of influence and persuasion of the then head of the State Giorgio Napolitano, said he had called in the Cabinet 42 representatives of the best Italian legal and political cultures; it may be that they were, but no one noticed. Why? Because the legal and political cultures of modern Italy had disappeared, absorbed, swallowed up and digested from mass moralism, from the perverse subculture of anti-politics. So said a colleague from the Democratic Party, Senator Micheloni, this morning. I call it mass moralism. But maybe we're all talking about the same thing. Today, then, we have to judge a path, not that of Quagliariello, but I would say a slightly longer path, what perhaps begins in the mid-1980s with the conclusions of the work of the Commission Bozzi. There may still be real and serious political and legal cultures there. Many problems were reviewed, an investigation was created, in the wake of Craxi's reformatory demands. He tried to resume that work in the message of President Cossiga of the last phase of his seven-year period. He returned to office with the bicameral commission which in 1992 had to propose together something constitutional and something for electoral legislation. Why couldn't it happen? Because square moralism, mass moralism, the hateful doga, which we had seen expressed only in the reserved spaces of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the associated judiciary, invaded the media squares and not only. Entire political cultures were overwhelmed: the socialist, the liberal, the republican, the Christian Democrat and the Social Democrat. There is very little left of the communist political culture itself, which was intended to protect itself. In his vulgate, the prestigious colleague Napolitano tells us that at the Constituent the old communists were intransigently monocameralists, for depositum fidei democratico-jacobino, and then bent to bicameralism. But how could a six-month guarantee instrument of the decisive elections of 18 April be challenged? Then, says the prestigious colleague - and many in this House refer to him - the regional institute was born and it finally deserved parliamentary or similar representation. This is a fraud, it is a lie: the regional institute entered the Constitution with the secessionist blackmail, not of Calderoli and Bossi, but of the Sicilian oligarchy. De Gasperi had to sign a decree - and it did well, because Sicily means so much in the history of Italy - that it recognized Sicilian autonomy. But there were in the Constituent those who opposed the regional institute. A speech by Nitti in 1946 seems to have spoken of today: without a financial rule, the State of the self-government can only be on the back of the national state: public spending expanded, participated and perhaps in perspective guapperia at the gaming tables of Berlin and Brussels. The scam continued, and the Regions in 1970 were made without a financial law, in return for the national state. It was uncertain if they were to be of legislation or management. Today they are exclusively of management, and only the will of the very willing minister Quagliariello could glimpse in the new so-called Senate a Chamber of compensation that would take over the squalor of the State-Regions-Autonomous Conference. So, as you can see, the reform we are facing is wrong. Of course, the Senate comes out of the picture with no regrets. In our debate, quite rightly, there has been no gesture of homage to the parliamentaryism desired by the Constitution and to the high democratic consciences that have attended this House. There has been some uncomfortable concern about the disordered Assembly which will inherit its name and which will, in fact, be the playroom of the regional councillors. At first it seems to me that mayors prevailed in the text that the government submitted to us. In short, there is an activating regionalism without honor, nor glory in the heart of our Constitution and our budget. This House will lexically inherit the Senate name, but it will not have any title under any code of parliamentary law. As for the last debate we had here last October, it was then persecuted - I was not prejudiced against it, even if the Presidency was really unhappy in guaranteeing freedom of opinion to the senators - especially the idea of a peace between senators of the Democratic Party. Then the peace between the democratic senators seemed, that is, a public good to be protected before, more and better than the freedom of the other senators: hence the use of kangaroos, contingency times and all kinds of vulgarity on the part of those who, as President of the Senate, should have felt the honour of representing representation, and instead seemed to act as exponent of civil society, that is to offend the Senate much more than that councilman of State Montagna who in 1945 was responsible for the closure of the royal institution. Mr President, without any temptation to vote in favour, today - I hope not, but it seems to me fatal to do so - we will say 'no' to an institution of the democratic history of this country. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u82	We greet the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo "Giovanni Pascoli" in Sturno, in the province of Avellino, who came from Irpinia to visit the Senate, present in the gallery. Thank you for your presence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u83	Mr President, Madam Minister, the long process of approval of constitutional reform is finally coming to an end. It is a reform that has great historical value, at least for the fact that it has been waiting for decades. For decades, in fact, political forces and Parliament have been discussing this without ever reaching a conclusion and without ever reaching a final approval of the many projects presented in Parliament. It may also surprise the fact that this legislature, which was born with strong political instability, has become a constituent legislature, whereas in the past Parliaments with much larger and stronger majorities had not been able to carry out solemnly announced reforms. This - it must be acknowledged - is mainly due to the acceleration of politics by the Secretary of the Democratic Party, Matteo Renzi, who later became President of the Council. This has meant that the legislature could become a legislature of institutional reforms and economic reforms, closely linked elements, which, in my opinion, are the two sides of the same coin. In fact, there can be no political stability and reformist action of the government if the institutions are not modernised and adapted to a context that, more than ever before, requires rapid and timely decisions, therefore the abolition of the perfect bicameralism and the strengthening of the executive power while respecting the powers of control of Parliament. As we know, in the right and left past they have mutually rejected the reforms proposed by others, always resetting the work undertaken by others and always requiring to start over. In this legislature, however, the agreement on reforms between the Democratic Party, between the majority and Forza Italia, had made us hope, beyond the numbers in Parliament, that this game would end and we could finally pass a new electoral law and the reform of the institutions with a pact shared in the interest of the country. Unfortunately, this pact has been denied, as we know, and in my view it has been unreasonable. There are those who, however, like the new AL-A Parliamentary Group, to which I belong, do not intend to change their mind and do not intend to change their position without a plausible and reasoned reason. And even with the contribution of AL-A, the reforms so long awaited and necessary for our country will be approved by Parliament. The opposition forces, however, are proposing to reject them in the referendum. For fairness and honesty, it must be said that there are political forces that can boast at least a coherence in this opposition. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] I'm talking about you. But there are others that incomprehensiblely, having included in their programme the renewal of the institutions and above all having approved this reform at the first parliamentary passage and then disowning it, today they join the choir of those who want to reject it. We will thus have a front for the abolition of reforms ranging from the League to Fassina, from Forza Italia to Di Pietro and Rodotà, from Meloni to the 5 Star Movement: all together for the preservation of the existing that does not work, which is one of the causes of the failure of the Italian political system. Precisely because of these absurdities, I am convinced that to transform the referendum into a yes or a no to President Renzi - and I do not happen to say to President Renzi and not to the Government - is not the Premier but the opposition, which forms an absurd and not credible juxtaposition in order to contest Renzi's work, in the illusion of giving a backdrop to the Government regardless of the content of a reform. Well, I believe that the citizens will understand yet another deception and act of irresponsibility of certain political forces, of those who talk about change and then strongly oppose the only change that Parliament has made possible and that can allow us to get out of the paralysis of these years. So those who ask Italian citizens to vote no to the referendum to cancel a reform that finally overcomes the perfect bicameralism, will have to explain the reasons for it. Anyone who calls for a vote on a reform setting up an assembly of local self-governments, such as the completion of federalism, will have to say why. Those who ask to vote no to the revision of the notorious reform of Title V of the Constitution, which, by universal admission, has paralysed the action of national government because of an endemic conflict and an absolute confusion between the different powers of the State, will have to give explanations. Finally, those who call for the vote to be taken on a reform which simplifies the procedures for the adoption of laws, giving Parliament real centre stage, will have to take account of this wretched choice in the face of future generations. I am convinced, however, that Italians will understand the faction of this opposition that brings together political forces so distant and different, united by the sole aim of not recognizing the merit of this majority and this Government in giving an epochal turning point to the institutions. I am convinced that Italians will be able to make the best choice, the one that will make progress in Italy in terms of economic and social progress and in terms of rights and democratic civilization. And the outcome of this referendum will mark a profound renewal of Italian political life. So, Mr President, Mrs Minister, in the referendum to vote yes to the future; to vote yes will be a yes to change; to vote yes will be a yes to an Italy that wants to become a country that is finally modern, capable of facing the tough challenges facing us. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u84	Mr President, I will also make a few comments because I have been in this House for several months now, like my colleagues in my Group, to explain the reasons why, with great conviction and with great electoral strength, we do not share and reject, together with the sovereign people, this mistaken idea of constitutional reform. In order to motivate the reasons why I think that the political operation of the majority in government in recent months has been deeply wrong, I would like to start from a fundamental reflection and contextualize the debate that we are having this evening that risks, and has always risked in these months, being presented as detached from the political context and even to the social context that we live in. First of all, after listening to my colleague, Senator Fornaro, I would like to say that I share an element of his reasoning, especially what he said in the preamble. We really live in a very particular historical phase, in which we are dealing with a sort of paradox: democracy which, fortunately, becomes the most significant form of government in many countries of the world, with an increasing level very important compared to even a few years ago. Finally, many countries on the globe take the democratic form as the only possible form of government. Inside, however, this expansion of democratic forms, there is the deep crisis of representative democracy and of course all that means. Even in our country, in fact, we have seen how stringent and penetrating this element of crisis has been. This seems to me to be a fundamental point of the debate we are holding, because I say to the Government that, in my opinion, the most significant mistake of this debate is born on this issue. We, Italy, should have, at the time we went to reform the Constitution, first of all posed this problem: before these elements of crisis, what are the most effective tools to counter them and how the trend is reversed compared to what has happened in recent years. I would like to add another element of premise, which is the other point which seems to me to have completely missed in the reflection of all these months. I believe that there is a great element of underestimation, of how the social crisis and the economic crisis that are dramatically on the one hand and the moral crisis with the loss of representativeness even of the intermediate bodies, as we have historically known, represent a potentially explosive mixture with respect to which the answers that a majority of Government that takes on to the bottom of the gravity of these processes should have put in place. Do not underestimate this aspect. In our country, a combined arrangement so powerful (economic crisis on the one hand and moral crisis on the other) we have never known it in recent history, and even less recent. Of course, there was a historical phase in which the economic crisis was very creeping, very strong and very pervasive. Think of the Italy that came out of the war, the black misery that passed through our country, the people who ran away and were forced to emigrate. However, within that historical phase so difficult and so complex and at that economic phase so creeping, at least you had a point of reference: a ruling class, a hope, a possibility. In short, yes, there was the economic crisis, but there was also the morality of politics, the constituent Fathers, the great stories that we have behind us, the twentieth century in all its weight, in this case yes truly extraordinary. On the other hand, there have been times when we have experienced opposing situations: great moral crisis, great democratic crisis, crisis of representation, political parties in a situation of great difficulty, but at least an economy that held or that, however, was not narrow in the tension with which it fights in recent years. We find ourselves, instead, in this historical phase, with a combined arrangement abnormal for the history of this country, in which these elements, the social crisis, the economic crisis and the moral crisis, are exactly the theme around which the element of crisis of representative democracy is determined. It is not that the crisis element of representative democracy is born from evening to morning. It is born within a historical path, which precisely begins in the past years, finds in the historical phase that we are experiencing today a maximum moment of crisis and translates into a very banal and very simple result to observe, which any observer can focus with his magnifying glass. Our country had historically seen an extraordinary participation in the forms of democratic life; think of the turnout in the political elections, as it has been determined over the last fifty years. Our country, from this point of view, has also been a beacon and a model for other European democracies. Instead, think about how today these elements have a profound impact on the fact that an increasingly significant piece of public opinion considers politics, when it's good for us, as something else, separate, different, that doesn't interest him and, when it's bad, even as something that sucks him (if I can use this expression a little'strong). Is this the state of our country today or not? Is it precisely in which the forms of democracy and democratic participation have been consumed or not? Is that also where the organized form of political parties has experienced an element of crisis that is likely to be irreversible or not? In this area of difficulty lies the decisive political error of this affair, which makes me say a very strong no, today in this House and tomorrow in the constitutional referendum that will take place. The basic question is: what tools could be imagined in the face of a crisis of this magnitude? There were two roads. Unfortunately, the wrong path has been chosen, the one that will accentuate this element of crisis and detachment. One way was to say: we recognize that there is a gigantic problem, that concerns representation and representativeness and we work, in this country, to rebuild this element of connection blown up between people and institutions. How? Through forms of democratic participation, through elements of profound enlargement of democracy, even through elements of counter-trend with respect to the general political line chosen in recent years. The general political line chosen in recent years, however, was another, exactly the one that is retraced in this constitutional reform, not only without changing the verse, but instead interpreting to the end that verse built in the narration of the last twenty years. The line according to which the main cause of this element of difficulty was to be found in the crisis of representation, was therefore to identify, as a remedy to the crisis of representation, the increase of the effectiveness of governability. This thesis was at the heart of a whole political reflection and was also rejected by the sovereign people in some past constitutional referendums. Even the experience of these years should have warned of the danger of this thesis, that perhaps in the short term it may also have an element of strength, but that in the medium and long term it is destined to produce a further element of worsening of the crisis already today very deep democracy in our country. So, I believe that at this basic question we have chosen to put the wrong political path into practice. When we said, turning in vain in these months, that another type of approach would be needed, we wanted to focus on another point that I would like to emphasize in this debate: method and merit, never as in a debate like this marked by the context with which we measure ourselves and have behind us, inevitably become an inescapable interweaving. I believe that that constituent spirit, which we have tried so many times to recall in this House, should have suggested another way forward. I have not yet understood, in the face of a crisis as serious as the one that is going through Italian democracy today, why one cannot think of choosing the main road, which is always and only one: to imagine a constituent Assembly, perhaps elected with a proportional law perfectly representative of the social and electoral bodies of the country, without prizes of majority that imbalance the real representativeness, that can put in place a cohesive and shared reasoning of how to change and how to improve the Italian Constitution. I, who are one of those who strongly defends the Italian Constitution, see that there are points on which elements of improvement should be introduced, also on the subject of bicameralism, which, however, would have deserved this type of approach and not the idea that the problem could be solved with the way taken. I believe that the Government's choices will not lead to the advance of the deep crisis that we are going through today, but rather will become a further moment of worsening of the crisis. I think, for these reasons, that another spirit would have been needed to do exactly the opposite of what has been done: the opposite of moving forward by majority vote, the opposite of what I have defined a thousand times in this House - and some of my colleagues have done so in the course of this debate - demagogy from above, which is imagined as an answer to populism, demagogy from below, but which, of course, was nothing more than by definition, is even more dangerous and, in any case, once again, in the long run, does not solve the problem, on the contrary, accentuates it. It would have taken the opposite of this plebiscytic idea for which the sovereign people are called to speak in a constitutional referendum, but instead of asking them what they think about constitutional reform, there is a plebiscite mechanism whereby "you're either with me or against me" by twisting the debate over how it would have been useful. Then there is the criticism of merit. I hope that in the election campaign - I am sure we will - when the reasons for yes and no can be no longer simply a matter that is being discussed in this House, but in the country, we will have time to put them in line one by one. I think it is a mistake - as I said just now - to emphasize the view that the crisis is resolved by increasing the powers of the Commission to the detriment of Parliament's powers. This is a dramatic mistake that you will regret when the political situation that will result will become an element of difficulty. It is clear that constitutional law and electoral law - I say nothing because it has been remembered a thousand times in the course of the debate - cannot be read as if they were two distant things. On the other hand, they are so intertwined that they represent here too some elements of torsion and even gigantic themes such as peace and war - a subject on which a very respectful methodological approach should be taken - risk being, in a combined arrangement such as this, discussion of a national direction of the only party that wins the elections. I'm worried about a situation like this. I also think - and we have said so many times - that the electoral mechanism imagined, apart from some proposals for amendment, remains, however, essentially, that of the second level. Madam Minister, I have gone astray to point out, in this House, that it has been very serious that Parliament has never taken stock of those second-level elections, which already exist in our country. Perhaps many observers are unaware that there are already some bodies in Italy, voting with second-level elections. These are the so-called metropolitan cities, which have replaced the Provinces. In all the cases in which we faced that type of second-level election, in the few months in which they took place, they represented the worst, the most vulgar and the most dramatic voting market, if we want to call it that, or very low-level trading. This was, at least in the Italian representation, the election of second level and, perhaps, before imagining that even one of the two Chambers of the Republic was elected with this type of mechanism, a review had to be made of how the second level elections worked. I therefore believe that this has been greatly missed. I also wonder whether it is ever possible that, in the face of such a creeping crisis of democratic representation, and in the face of the fact that, precisely, entire and increasing segments of the population look at politics as an increasingly distant thing, the theme has not been to work deeply on the instruments of direct democracy, strengthening them, actually making them instruments that could make a decisive contribution. However, this has not been done either. I therefore believe that, for all these reasons, the issue is not whether or not there is an authoritarian turning point or something like that. The issue is that this reform does not solve the crisis of Italian democracy, but unfortunately it will dramatically accentuate the elements of crisis, as we have known them. Of course, it is a reform that serves to say that something is being done, but I do not believe, honestly, that this is simply enough to put a hand in the Republican Constitution. Perhaps they would have served more modesty and humility than a Constitutional Charter that has its own history and dignity, so wide and extraordinary, that, perhaps, those who have tried to defend it, in these years, should have been heard more, rather than simply being labeled as the enemy of change. This House has been deaf to these elements, which have been on the table for many months now. She was deaf in the face of oppositions, although very different: we are faced with this real anomaly, so the reform will not be shared by oppositions who think in the opposite way about many things. These oppositions, which think in the opposite way about so many things, believe instead that, on the fundamental rules - on the rules: not on political lines and on political cultures - would have served instead that deepening, that synthesis and that progress, which would perhaps have allowed the country to try to change direction, compared to the deep crisis in which we ended in these years. However, I believe that this will not be the case, and I believe that, precisely, if this reform were to be adopted, if the referendum were to confirm it and if it were to be accompanied, as it will be, by the electoral law currently in force, this would be a dangerous, wrong and serious setback for Italian democracy. But I also think that, fortunately, the wisdom of the constituent Fathers, when they wrote the Constitutional Charter, many years ago, however, gave the sovereign people the opportunity to say the final word. In spite of everything, I believe very much in the seriousness, capacity and vision of the sovereign people and I think that, again, it will be able to do a better job than its representatives. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-AEcT Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u85	She is registered to speak Senator Chiavaroli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u86	Mr President, Mrs Ministro, ladies and gentlemen, the draft Constitutional Reform Act that we are about to vote on in this House has entrusted us with a costly and very responsible task. Today we are changing the structure of our fundamental Charter, the set of rules that it has guaranteed for over sixty years - certainly now more effectively now less - a full democratic function. Today we are changing our country and with it our future. How long has it been since we first began to support the need to change the Constitution? For more than thirty years, Italy has been waiting for a reform of its institutional structure, due to the obvious limitations it has shown in guaranteeing the country a timely and thoughtful decision-making capacity. In the past, other illustrious colleagues tried, without ever succeeding in that attempt to prevail over the fear of change. They were accused, then and now, of authoritarianism by those same ones who now as then organize and mobilize the committees of the no, which however has always been a no regardless. Let me say that it is regrettable to see today stand on the same rejection positions regardless of the right-wing parties, for reasons that appear to be more linked to political contingency than to their own history and perspective. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is no longer the time of cat paddling. We can't do this anymore. Let's have it. We owe it to our children, to whom we have already taken too much of their hopes and their future. It is not the exasperated decision-making of a coalition government that supports it, but it is the times and ways of politics. There is a need to reform an institutional system that dates back to an outdated historical era and has shown all its limitations. It is the new international structures, the developments of the financial markets, the emergency emigration, the problems of security, the profound social crisis before economic and political that we are still wounded to impose on us a modernization of our institutional system, which can no longer be postponed. We must not, we cannot leave to future generations a country unable to face political and economic unpredictability with the right times and ways. At the outbreak of the sovereign debt crisis and the real economy, Italy proved to be vulnerable, more than the other countries of the European Union, because of an institutional system that was not able to react quickly and that did not seem able to express a stable political direction. We all in this House cannot have forgotten the stalemate that has been created since the 2013 general elections. This legislature was born with difficulty, without a majority, without the possibility of forming a new Government, nor of being able to elect a new President of the Republic. It was the generous contribution of President Napolitano and the representatives of the two most representative coalitions that made it possible to put an end to an institutional stalemate that would bring the country to its knees, which would make it even more vulnerable to the eyes of the European allies, exposed to the worst financial speculations. This reform writes the conditions so that what happened, that is, the birth of a government of broad understanding, no longer takes place for necessity and imposition. Of course, what we are about to approve is not the perfect reform. This is not the same as it was in 1948. Just read the acts and statements of those months that led to the promulgation of the Charter to understand that it was the result of a compromise that many then considered downward, but necessary if we wanted to avoid the risk of a new authoritarian drift. That is not the perfect reform either. A little by definition - as well as for the 1948 Charter, which has long been considered the best Constitution in the world, we will discover only by living the limits - and much for the internal compromises of the majority that approved it. For example, a limit is the failure to amend the articles of the Constitution relating directly to the form of government, so there will be no constitutional arrangements suitable to protect the stability requirements of the government, as requested by the famous Perassi agenda, approved by the constituent assembly. Another limit is the failure to provide for a closing rule for the election of the President of the Republic. The quorum of the three fifths could lead to a dangerous impasse, while it would have been preferable to extend the electoral college of the President of the Republic, providing for a quorum equal to the absolute majority. But this reform will not be the death of Parliament, as - alas! - I have heard in this House. It will not be the end of democracy, but it will not be yet another missed opportunity. On the contrary, this reform is born to strengthen the form of parliamentary government, enhancing the seat of representation in a more narrow and efficient dialectic with the majority of government chosen by voters. Thanks to this reform we will no longer be able to hide behind the lengths of the stalls between the two rooms, we will no longer be able to play the "download barrel" between the two branches of Parliament. The simplification of the legal process will be an opportunity to concentrate and make the debate in Parliament more effective on fundamental choices. And Parliament's work will be clear to the voters, who will therefore have greater powers to judge their work. What an end to democracy! The citizens, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, are losing confidence in the institution that we have the honour to represent for the "slow-cracy" of vetoes and countervetes of an old bicameralism equal. For this reason, I think it is extremely important to introduce the so-called preferential lane for the designs essential for the implementation of the government programme, by resolution on a certain date, within a maximum of 90 days. A sufficient time to discuss and improve the draft law, which is an essential prerogative of Parliament. Once, however, at the end of which it is necessary to decide. Only in this way will we be able to have governments that will avoid abusing the decree of urgency, the maximaments and the votes of confidence, the way in which any executive has used to govern. Those who believe that this reform will lead to an authoritarian drift are deeply mistaken. Suffice it to say that the Government, as has already been pointed out, will not have the powers that other European democracies have. The President-in-Office of the Council will not be able to revoke the ministers, either to propose an early appeal to the ballot box, or to veto the deliberations which impose burdens on public finances. But there is another aspect that I would like to stress here today. Finally, this reform aims to straighten out the crooked tree of that federalism in which the irresponsibility of regional and local administrators prevailed. The transformation of the Senate into the Senate of the autonomy: no longer, therefore a second Political Chamber, but a Chamber that will represent the territorial autonomy in order to overcome the errors posed by the modification of Title V realized in 2001. That reform, hasty we add today with proof of the facts, with a misconceived division of competences between the central state and the regions, has in fact fueled the constitutional dispute, multiplying the holders of veto powers ending to paralyze the system, with enormous damage to the economy of our country. The new Title V, on the other hand, gives centrality to the unitary State. However, the recentralisation of a number of subjects, improperly attributed to the competence shared by the 2001 revision, will be largely compensated by the participation of Regions and Municipalities in the implementation of national public policies and state laws, through the presence in the Senate of their representatives. I hope that future members of the Senate will understand the importance of this objective. I would like to remind everyone that before this last reading, the reform has been widely shared in Parliament, including by political opposition forces. To speak of an institutional rift of the majority seems to me to be somewhat out of place. This reform is primarily the result of the work of the Committee of Wise Men set up ad hoc by the Letta Government, of the work of the Constitutional Affairs Commissions that improved the text presented by the Government, thanks also to the contribution of colleagues from Forza Italia who voted favorably for the first reading both in the Senate and in the House. What we are about to achieve here today, ladies and gentlemen, is not the point of arrival, but it is only a fundamental stage of a much longer path of institutional, economic and social reforms, which have the objective of achieving the project of a better country than what has been entrusted to us. The citizens will have the last word in the referendum, but we are sure that they will be able to share with all of us that today we are preparing to vote for reform by building a more modern, more efficient, more competitive state. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u87	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u88	Mr President, I give up my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u89	President. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u90	Everyone is eagerly waiting for Vice President Gasparri's intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u91	Mr President, our Group is not hostile to the reform of our Constitution, on the contrary it claims, in the political path of the centre-right, the launch, years ago, of an organic reform of the Constitution, which concerned the relations between the central state and the autonomy, the direct election of the premier, the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism. That reform, certainly much more balanced and useful than what we are discussing, did not come into force because, legitimately, the oppositions of the time promoted the referendum, which we too are going to do if Parliament were to launch this reform. With the polemics about devolution and other instrumental arguments, being the confirmation referendum without quorum, that reform did not enter into force. Even in this legislature, as always, the commitment of Berlusconi, of the centre-right, before the PdL, then of Forza Italia, has been tended to make serious reforms. Today we do not vote for what is being proposed to us because the text has been progressively worsened. When we did the last examination, the previous one, the one that allowed us to enter into the substance of the articles and to amend the reform, we attended the fair of asinerie: rules were written, which risk becoming a Constitution of the State, which have no head, no tail, with the intervention of the various consultants and the people who came to the rescue, the occasion eagles, who transformed themselves, especially with the electoral law, into demiurgies of incomprehensible texts. Also on the rule concerning the supposed direct election of the senators, which had been the subject of a private negotiation of the Democratic Party (as if the Constitution were a problem of solving the permanent congress of the Democratic Party, of the organization between the various currents), there was a negotiation, which - I also remind President Finocchiaro - frankly does not remain a splendid page in the history of Parliament. In fact, instead of bringing together the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for days and days the offices of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs were kidnapped by a group - which could meet quietly elsewhere - which decided how to write the rule concerning the supposed direct election of the members of the future Senate, giving birth to a dark, messy text - we will then see the laws of implementation and everything else - to which I also feel conditioned the subsequent attitudes of those members of the Democratic Party who will vote for this reform, with the reservation of seeing what the Senate electoral law will look like, which you have hypothesized through that way of dealing. In the same way, many other rules have been written incomprehensiblely, but we also make it a political issue. In addition to the merit, which has got worse in fact there is the affair of the electoral law, which is connected. Because - let us be honest - electoral laws are as important as constitutional rules. In fact, although the electoral law is not a constitutional law, it concerns the material Constitution of the democratic life of the country: it determines groups, alliances and outcomes of democracy. We have also seen changes on the electoral law, step by step, which have not been agreed and which have not been the result of a comparison. So we are here to vote no firmly, not because we have changed our mind, but because the way we proceed has changed, the contents have changed, just as the overall power structure has changed. Council President Renzi says to turn the elections into a referendum on himself, giving us a thousand more reasons to say no. Let's say no for the concentration of power that is happening. A few years ago, together with the leader of Forza Italia in the Chamber, Brunetta, in agreement with the senate leader, Paolo Romani, I symbolically made an "employment," remaining a few minutes in the offices of the Copasir to contest, for example, a very serious democratic injury. I say this to the members of the Government: the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura Group is still not part of the Copasir, while Italy is under the threat of terrorism. They are more or less warlike events with Libya. Italy - Senator Latorre, as you know, as President of the Defence Commission - does basically military relief operations for wounded people in Libya, and we are excluded from a parliamentary control committee, where the shame of shame should be controlled, where Renzi would like to put the companion of snacks Carrai to effectively control the Security Services: an unheard-of shame. At this point we also ask all colleagues: do you agree on this concentration of power? (17.17) (Following GASPARRI). Renzi makes the electoral law in a certain way, with the list that, if anything, can take the majority of the seats (single list); then, he thinks of the appointment to the secret services of Carrai, which was the one who lived in Via degli Alfani, where Renzi established his residence without paying the rent. The investigation has been closed and now what is the prize after Florence airport? With the excuse of refining technologies for cybersecurity, do we hand over all the flow of security? What does this have to do with reforms? It has something to do with it, because we are witnessing the construction of an arbitrary power system in recent months. I could talk about the banks, which are still being discussed with concern today: the bad bank, the clashes with Europe. Renzi pretends to fight with Juncker to darken the bad stories of banking. Today we read that in the story of the Bank of Etruria, in addition to the family problems of Ministers and others, there were even officials who made people with qualifications appear who did not have to prove so that they were conscious clients: fake graduates, graduates. To a ninety-three-year-old, Minister Boschi, the Bank of Etruria had written that it had a life expectancy of ten years, and therefore could invest in a certain way. I wish this ninety-three-year-old man no more than ten, fifty years old, but not to be screwed by the Bank of Etruria and the comrades of snacks of Renzi and his ministers! This is happening in this country: a Carrai here, a Bank of Etruria there. And Carboni had two lunches, didn't he, Verdini? The P3. Now what P are we at? P3- bis, P5 or which P? Carboni is a harmless old man; at other times he was a devastating danger to democracy. Perhaps it was a danger even then, or it was an old man even then, or it is a danger today and an old man then; I don't know, but we are witnessing a total degradation. The same is true of the subject of information where, while discussions were being held on the reform of the Constitution, Renzi tried to achieve a concentration of power, demonstrating its weakness. In fact, moves like that of Carrai, the events of the banks and the decrees adopted favoring the insider trading of Serra and his other friends, demonstrate weakness and nervousness. If you feel safe, you don't make a crazy move like Carrai's. Everyone here thinks like I do - I'm sure of it - but someone will pretend to say it's okay. If anyone thinks it's okay, get up and say so. In the field of information, too, we have seen a partial revision of the current law, giving the Government all the powers to manage the public radio and television service. Poland has adopted an equal law and the European Union is taking an interest in it. Since there is a right-wing government in Poland, the law that gives the government all the powers to control public television is already within the scope of the European authorities. The Italian law is worse than the Polish law, providing for the appointment of the managing director of the RAI by the Government, which has competence over all appointments. We will submit this law to the attention of the European Union because it is another piece of the fundamental reform of Italian politics and institutions: a bit of banks, a bit of Carrai, a bit of Campo Dall'Orto and a bit of upheaval of the constitutional principles in the matter of RAI (the judgments of the Constitutional Court in fact state that it is Parliament that must exercise control and the government of the public service and not the Government). We put together all these elements: the Carrai, the bankers of Banca Etruria, the events of the insider trading of Serra thanks to the sudden adoption of the decree-law on popular banks and the many other maneuvers. After that, we are not moved by quarrels with the European Union. When we challenged the mechanisms of government of the European Union, the left welcomed those who did not have the interests of Italy. For God's sake, we have Italy at heart and so today we will do everything necessary to defend national interest and our criticism of European bureaucracies, if there were yesterday, there are also today. Our criticisms of some of the rules of the European economy were there yesterday and there are today, but it does not enchant us those who yesterday applauded those who strangled Italy and today uses the quarrel with Juncker only to try to make disappear from the pages of the newspapers, without succeed, Bank Etruria and everything else. The trick is clear. When it comes to other areas, we have also seen the matter of the appointment of a member of the Government as a representative of the Executive in Brussels. In Italy there was the practice of reserving these positions to career diplomats, which can be changed (in other parts of the world ambassadors are also often politically designated and the United States are an example of this). But where has all this been decided? Where has an amendment of this nature been discussed? The bureaucracy circles are in revolt, as are those of the security services and defending the free information and also the committees of the no, which, from right to left, up to civil society, will take the opportunity to reject a reform that you have worsened in merit and a policy of arrogance that the Renzi Government is implementing. And excessive arrogance is a demonstration, not of strength, but of weakness. Not to defend the Senate; we want even more radical, presidential and true modernization reforms of Italian democracy and not your grammatical rules, which you have written through a revision of the Constitution that, if it were to be approved, will be a disgrace from the point of view of grammar, as well as content. We will fight to defend freedom, pluralism and democracy. And remember that the Renzi pass, while democracy remains. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u92	Senator Amati is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u93	Mr President, I rise to make very few words, because, at the end of this long debate, I have no intention of entering into the substance of a complex reform, which I have not yet voted on in the previous readings. My political-institutional history and the relationship I have with the Democratic Party and the Democratic Party Group invite me, at a complex and delicate time like the current one, to put aside the issues of conscience and think about the value of the unity and strength of the Democratic Party. For this reason, I will vote for this reform so that the party and the Group do not have to depend on strange alliances and because I know well that at the end of this sitting we will look at numbers and belongings and mine is membership of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u94	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tronti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Minister, I felt the need, at some point, to leave my reflection - free, but also very busy - on this very delicate and so important parliamentary passage. A long process of constitutional reform is concluded which has seen so many attempts and so many failures. On the substance of the solution on which we are going to decide, allow me to express myself with a brief formula, of which I would also ask you to grasp the irony, a formula which is also known: I would not be honest if I said that this reform proposal has completely convinced me. I voted for two abstentions in the previous two passages, without declaring it in this House for a certain allergy to the explanation of vote in dissent from its own group, but I did so in order to leave some of my concerns to the acts of this Parliament and to push for some further amendment. Now that we are at the final vote, which does not allow changes, it is a spirit of responsibility not to hinder the closure of the overall process that has as an identifying sign the long-followed and finally reached end of so-called equalized bicameralism. It is always a sign of good policy to conclude an initiated process and good policy we need and I consider this conclusion of a very long path of attempts to reform the Constitution an act of good policy. What are the perplexities? I confess (but perhaps this is my lack) that I do not have a regionalist mindset, that I do not have an autonomousist sensibility. I am a lover of the state-form, which I have crossed in his great and troubled modern story, of the State as the holder of the monopoly of legitimate force according to the classic Weberian definition. And I think that today, when national sovereignty is being discussed and overtaken, it is precisely today, in this great transition, that we need not less State, but more State. It is a beautiful utopia for people to make a political Europe. This new Europe, in fact, could only be done by States if they made this political decision: the States, not the governments. I would have liked to have seen the constitutional reform discussed and elaborated within this context of speech. Never, as at this time here, in the Italian contingency, would we need to prepare an institutional place, a high chamber in the literal sense of the word, with the task, I would say with the imperative mandate to ensure and re-establish relations, in order to use the traditional terms, between the legal country and the real country, between institutions and citizens, between rulers and governed, in a word between the elite and the people. This report today is abruptly, violently interrupted. Maybe we don't realize it, and it's true that sometimes we say it, but to go right away to do and talk about something else. On the other hand, the problem must be dealt with in large numbers. The Constituents had imagined such a form of Senate when, in the first legislature, they sent men and women who had been subjected to years of fascist imprisonment and when they established the figure of senators for life, who gave and still give lust to this branch of Parliament. Well, I imagined a Senate that, freed from the trust relationship with the Government on duty, freed from ordinary legislation, composed of a small number of highly worthy personalities could concentrate its work on reconnecting that interrupted relationship. Today, the only institution that still holds the confidence of its citizens is the Presidency of the Republic, thanks also to the last excellent Presidents. But this institution performs this function in absolute solitude. He'd need an operating body. I address you, who are also able to grasp the nuances of the speech. I am not so naive as to consider this solution feasible in this form. That's how I say it, I put things like that, to exasperate the problem. Colleagues, all of us who sit in these seats are accused, and not because of a more or less good electoral law, more or less bad, but because of something more serious, because of a widespread popular judgment. We find it hard to say out of here that we are here, that we are doing this job, that we are doing this function. And I don't know about you colleagues, but I live this condition with great suffering. There is this black humor that circulates - as they say - in the belly of the country. It is not a criticism of politics - perhaps it was - it is a hatred of politics, it is contempt for those who practice it, it is a declaration of distrust of the same word "political." This situation must not be endured, nor must it be ride: it must be changed. We have before us the theoretical and practical problem of how and when contemporary democracies, current democratic systems, have become producers and breeding, in an enlarged form, of anti-political. I know for a fact that today's democratic forms certify a sort of dictatorship of opinion. We must distinguish between consensus and opinion. A political problem today is how to treat consensus, rightly, without remaining victims and subordinates to opinion. Anti-politics is today the enemy to be beaten for all of us who are here, majorities and minorities. It is said that this anti-political black humor is more than justified, given the performance of a certain political class, more or less recent. True, but the justification for one thing doesn't make that thing right. An example of these days: it is right to proceed with the decriminalization of crimes of illegality. It is also appropriate, as industry operators, judiciary and law enforcement support. But it can't be done, because people's perception of insecurity wouldn't change. The task of politics is to demonstrate, to make people understand, to convince that concentrating that perception on that point is wrong. Politics, of course, must listen, but it must also be able to speak, to speak to people and, by this way, to direct and direct. This is its natural function. It is precisely when it does not perform this function that it is not recognized and is sometimes rightly contested. I am convinced of one thing: if you do not get out of anti-politics, there is no chance of effective good government. Because the government is often forced to pursue these impulses and adapt its decisions to them. And beware, there is not even a chance of good opposition, because the opposition will even be led to anticipate the Government in listening to those instances that are nobly defined as basic. Then, political decision, which is a serious matter, cannot go to the poll, which is not a serious thing; so they produce only wrong laws and more confusion and disorientation. I want to say one thing to the citizens 5 Stars, and do not take it as a lesson that the professor does, because I say it with sympathy. By growing consensus around you, you are rightly proposing yourself as the next force of government. Beware, to be a force of government, you must learn the art of governing, which is the most difficult, complex and complicated political art. [[Comments from the M5S Group and Senator Crosio.]] To oppose, some technique is enough, as you do always keeping open that text of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. You are experiencing the difficulties of administering. Those difficulties are growing exponentially in the government. Keep in mind that administering and governing are two different things: one is far below, the other much above. Government colleagues, I address you directly. I always record a thrill of reaction when I hear the formula pronounced "the mayor of Italy." No, Italy, like any great country, does not need a mayor, perhaps not enough under these conditions not even a traditional President of the Council: it needs a Head of Government who dresses up the figure of the man of state. I think our young President is able to do this for the good of the country. Mr President, I should like to conclude by making a brief statement, each of which would require much more arguments, not least because I am not in the tradition of the part of the House that I am talking about. The crisis of politics is: it is a crisis of its modern foundations, so it is not something new. For me, from what I understand, and of course I can make a mistake, the crisis in politics today, not in general, in this contingency, is less crisis of representation and more crisis of authority. It has happened to me on other occasions to observe, always with the irony that we must keep in the field, but also with truth, that it represents even too much, it represents everything, and all passively, without hierarchicalizing the questions, according to necessity and urgency. And I sometimes see the manifestation of primary needs and the needs of secondary rights being put on the same footing. That's not gonna work. From here, too, comes the fall of political authority. Auctoritas is recognized power, and only thus becomes true, effective, efficient potestas, that is, power that responsibly decides. And today this recognition is not there, it must be rebuilt and it must be regained. Moreover, the problem of politics, here and now, is less a problem of legality and more a problem of legitimacy. Large categories of these, legality and legitimacy, which modern politics has long thought of and which today need to be rethought and re-proposed. Politics must be re-legitized and re-legitized by the political class in the sense and in the name that our elites gave it: Pareto, Moscow, Michels. I would say that this process concerns more generally the ruling classes. The two traditional places of political class selection, Parliament and parties, have been dangerously emptied and sterilized. Those who have had responsibility for this have a great and negative responsibility, because they are not concerned about making new ones. And then please -- this is my personal thing I want to say -- don't tell me that this is what they do or could do, once they've been regulated, the primary. If for once randomly select the best, nine times punctually select the worst. The big problem is to reconstruct professionally capable, ethically irreproachable, politically responsible ruling classes; the only way, among other things, to reasonably delimit the present excessive personalization of politics. And the restart is - mind you - from above. As you can see, that reason of the Upper House was only, in the form of suggestion and small utopia, the way to introduce some basic themes into the debate on this essential and fundamental passage of reform of our Constitution. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u96	We greet the students, the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo (Including Panzini) of Castellammare di Stabia, in the province of Naples, who follow our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u97	The general debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u98	Mr President of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, I take the floor to thank all the members of the Senate, the majority and the opposition, those who voted and voted for the reforms and those who voted against, those who have been convinced from the first minute and those who have worked on compromises and summaries, those who have discussed the substance for a long time in these two years of work. I take the floor to thank the Presidency of the Senate, its President and the Offices, which are subject to a particularly demanding parliamentary process. I take the floor to thank Mrs Boschi for the extraordinary determination and tenacity she has shown in this long and not easy iter. [[Applause from the PD-AP groups (NCD-UDC) and the government benches]] I take the floor to thank the Group Leaders, all of them, but with a particular thought and appreciation for those Group Leaders who have supported this text, even with some difficulty. And I also do so with respect to those leaders who, for political reasons, had to change their minds. I take the floor to thank all the senators and senators. Of all, I choose the President of the 1st Finocchiaro Commission for his decisive support. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]] Some brilliant and questionable constitutional innovations, which I had personally proposed to the attention, were virtually immediately erased by the President of the 1st Commission, the Minister and so much of the debate, finding in all of you an unsurpassed rock. I think it is not irreparable damage, but I was pleased to be able to share many assessments and considerations. Mr President, I will finally be able to thank those who now sit on the benches of the Senate, but who have been decisive for all nine years of his presidential term, the senator and president emeritus of the Republic of Naples. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]] If there had not been his speech that all of you Members of this Parliament vigorously applauded in April 2013, there would be no such reform and this legislature would not stand. It's good to say it very forcefully. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]] I am not only here for a list of thanks; I am here to pay tribute, gentlemen of the Senate, to you, a not formal but sincere and profound tribute. I think the story will take care of this day. Italian political history will take care of this day. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] The story will be kind to you, kind senators and dear senators. As a great British statesman would have said, you chose to write the story and not read it. The gesture you have made twice by agreeing with an absolute majority vote to overcome the Senate has no equal, not in Italian history, but in the history of the European institutions. The gesture you have made against self-referentiality by blocking that bias belt against politics reaffirms, Senator Tronti, the centrality of the public thing as absolute value, regardless of the discussions of one side and the other. We can agree or not with the reform. As you know, we do not have the same opinions, but the country owes you, kind senators and dear senators, an institutional gratitude to which I want to add my personal. Two years ago I took the floor in this House to present the government that the then President of the Republic had instructed me to form. It was a very slender government, the second most slender in the history of the 63 Republican governments in numerical terms and the one with the highest presence of women and with the lowest age level in republican history. I myself, when I spoke here in the Senate, was not old enough to sit among you. The government had such a demanding goal that it played for some of you unrealistic: to put in place and carry out all the reforms that, for better or for worse, had been promised to Italian citizens and on which this country had committed itself at European level. It was a program considered ambitious by friends, daring by observers and impossible by opponents. It was February 2014, not even 24 months ago. The country's GDP had closed the year to -1,9 percent, partaking of the sad performance of the previous year (-2,3). Unemployment was over 13 percent and youth unemployment exceeded 46 percent according to ISTAT data. The confidence indices of consumers and businesses were at the very least historic, and confidence in politics and institutions was also largely negative. In Europe, references to Italy were made in common with Greece at all times, and the key words of the continental debate were only privatisation and austerity. We accepted a challenge at the most difficult time and, when I spoke in this House before you, I began with a provocation. Some of you, ladies and gentlemen, including my party, have still not forgiven me, and I do not think it was for the hands in your pocket or for the speech in your arms. You did not forgive me because the provocation was very strong: I want to be the last President of the Council who asks for confidence in this House. I remember the looks and I remember the smiles, but if this Assembly, in a few hours will confirm the vote already expressed in August 2014 and October 2015, that forecast, which seemed bold, will become a reality. And it is thanks to your commitment, in these two years, if the situation of the country is different from February 2014. Gross domestic product (GDP) has risen from -1.9% to +0.8%, unemployment has fallen just above 11%, youth has steadily fallen below 40%, confidence indices are at their peak over the last 15 years and consumption is growing again. Italy's not good. Italy is better; and Italy is better because politics has shown that, believing us, reforms can be carried out. Then we can divide in merit, but after years of drunkenness of acronyms, like TINA (there is no alternative: there are no alternatives), of considerations regarding the uselessness of politics, of subalternity of politics with respect to economic and financial phenomena, after years in which the quainquism has gone on stage even in the details, politics has taken its place in this country, with an organic design, carried forward by the Parliament of the Republic, in its two branches - the Senate of the Republic and the Chamber of Deputies - whose borders are finally visible today. We have therefore begun to remodel the institutional, economic and administrative systems. In the time of what some thinkers call the "vetocracy," that is, the power given to those who have the right to veto, we have made it easier to decide. In doing so, it is as if we had returned to Italy a right, the right to the future, which was denied by those who had a shrill idea of the future of this country. Therefore, we can think of it in every way, we can have the most disparate opinions, we can believe and divide ourselves on everything, but we cannot deny that, in this parliamentary term, this Parliament - which I am not a member of - has, over such a short period of time, put hand to the reform of an electoral law, that a decision of the Constitutional Court had judged illegitimate, getting to the point of putting the political situation in check and stall, and has created, within a few months, a reform of the work, on whose evaluation will be the history, or perhaps the chronicle, to say what we have done. There is no doubt, however, that the ISTAT and INPS data of the last few days show, in an unmistakable way, that finally the curve has returned to growth: +510,000 permanent employment contracts, which means, for a boy, for a young man, not a sheet of paper, but the possibility of a right to the future, to a home, to a child and to a perspective [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups)]] Then there is the reform of the public administration (which will see the first legislative decrees come out of the Council of Ministers this evening) the reduction of taxes considered unjustly or rightly unbearable [[Comments of Senator Martelli]] , such as the first house tax, but also the work component of the IRAP or those related to agriculture. I could continue, from the topic that I feel most dear, that of international cooperation, to issues related to civil justice. I do not go into the merits of the individual reforms, I say that with today an extraordinary path is closed, which has marked the path of the last two years, with a metronome of emergency, which has seen Italy do, in a very short time, things that, for years had stood still in the swamp of the stalemate: the clearer Title V, never again the double trust, the simplified legislative procedure, the abolition from the Constitution of useless bodies (assumed, of course). There is, however, a key point in this debate, and I would like to mention it here in the Senate, not because it does not apply to the House of Deputies, but because here there is the political value of what happened: overcoming a prejudice that eclipsed confidence in public affairs and politics, that is, the idea that legislators could not intervene in their own branch of Parliament. This is the key point, which is changing the perception of politics by citizens. How many dreamed of this moment? Generations of parliamentarians have imagined that we could overcome the bicameralism of equality. The constituent assembly, for those who had the fortune, even at the university, to be able to read those extraordinary papers, had discussed for a long time on the model of bicameralism and we must recognize that equal (or perfect) bicameralism was considered the compromise of then, was not the first choice of any of the political forces in the field. The debate of the following seventy years [[Comments from the M5S Group]] has seen the Commission Bozzi, the Commission De Mita, the Commission Iotti, the Commission D'Alema, the work of the 2000s constantly coming back to this point: overcoming the bicameralism equal. This is not, however, the greatest value of today; it is not in this great phase passage, as we would have said. The greatest value is that this is the day that an entire generation of parliamentarians called the day that never had to come; this is the day that no one believed we would arrive and we arrived because you had courage and confidence. I would like to make just one point on the subject of the reform, and I would like to say it to the opposition, with the respect that is due to those who will not vote and to those who have expressed - I must say very clearly - negative assessments of the text or, as has happened, the way in which this reform is presented. You can agree or not; you can - I say it with great respect to Senator Paolo Romani - have changed your mind from the initial path, which was deliberately inclusive and broad; you may have changed your mind with all the sweet technical considerations of this world, also because I do not forget that this is a legislature in which some Group has defined fascist a bill approved in a branch of Parliament by the same Group, but in the component of the other House. I am therefore aware that there have been discussions within the parties at this time, which I respect. However, there is one point that I want to say clearly and that paradoxically can even be regarded as the weak point even by someone who will vote in favour of this reform: we do not touch the system of weights and counterweights provided for in the Constitutional Charter. [[Comments from the M5S Group. Applause from the PD Group. Ironic applause from the M5S Group. Senator Cioffi's comments.]] This must remain clear. I say this because here, even among those who vote in favour of reform, there are those who argue - and I respect it - that not having chosen presidentialism or semi-presidency, not making this choice, is a mistake. This bill of constitutional reform, which modifies bicameralism, which intervenes on the powers of the Regions, which cancels forever the CNEL and the Provinces from the constitutional vocabulary [[Comments from the M5S Group),]] does not affect the role of the Presidency of the Republic and counterweight bodies, as defined by the Constitutional Council of 1946. If there is this - and there is - I believe that intellectual honesty is needed to note that this reform, quite simply, seeks to make a parliamentary system less plastered, that over the last seventy years has produced 63 governments and that it presents a quality of the lawmakers of the highest level, but that it has procedures so cumbersome that they are unanimously considered to change. The legislature that started didn't have a future. I do not want to refish the political, institutional and social reasons for the split that the vote of 25 February 2013 had left in the political panorama. In the first days of our government we were told that amateurs were at work (some think so now). It would be interesting, dear Senator Tronti, to recover, with regard to weberian conception, in the work "The Protestant Ethics and the Spirit of Capitalism," the definition Weber gives of professionals, of some of the people he defined in a rather intriguing way, for those who love those pages. I only say, in a much more trivial way, that I am fond of the image for which amateurs built Noah's ark while professionals made the Titanic. During the two years in which we had the honour of being able to govern this country, a fundamental step has changed: the awareness that if Italy wants to do things is back in the field. We are two years away from the end of this parliamentary term. It's not that many. It is seven hundred thirty days, days of fatigue, work and commitment; we will not miss one, using every minute to do our best to bring Italy back among the leading countries in the world. Sure, they tell us it's impossible every day. They told us that it was impossible to overcome bicameralism, so much so that it had been thought, even with the vote of this House, to proceed with the revision under Article 138 with an ad hoc Commission precisely because there was no confidence that the objective would be achieved. Every day they tell us that it is impossible to bring Italy back to Europe; Every day they tell us that it is impossible to relaunch investments in our country; Every day they tell us that it is impossible to reform public administration or to regard Africa as the biggest bet in Europe today. Every day they tell us that it is impossible to lower taxes and that it is impossible to reduce the participating companies of local authorities, that it is impossible to make ICT, technological innovation the biggest weapon against tax evasion, that it is impossible to get the South out of resignation and fear. [[Comments of Senator Cioffi]] Every day they tell us that it is impossible to establish, worldwide, the equation for which a euro invested in security means a euro invested in culture. Every day they tell us it's impossible, but we do. [[Comments of Senator Martelli]] We do this because the professionals of failure, capable of squealing but not proposing, are those who tell us every day that everything is impossible. They reject the astonishment, reject the wonder, reject the search and think that the world is a place on a gray scale where the only possible bet is that on the failure of Italy. These people need to know that driving the most beautiful country in the world... CIOFFI (M5S). There's the most beautiful man in the world! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. ... there is a generation, a group of people who are able to believe in Italy in its values, in its citizens, in its ability to erase the word "impossible." [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]] At this point, there is only one way, which is not to continue the debate on the substance of constitutional reform, (we are ready to do so, taking the texts one by one)... MARTON (M5S). What are you talking about? Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. ...but it is to accept the challenge. During these two years, you have been constantly yelled at, dear senators and senators who have voted in favour. How many times have they told you: "Make the reforms indoors of the rooms but the people are not with you." Let's go see where the people stand on this reform. Let's go see where the citizens stand on this reform! [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups. Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]] AIROLA (M5S). Don't yell! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. Let's go see if the citizens think like those who only know how to scream and bet on failure or stand on the side of those who believe in the future of Italy. [[Senator Castaldi's comments.]] Italians are our landmarks. [[Protests from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u99	Quiet! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. It is the Italians who are currently watching these scenes from the gallery and wonder why an intervention should be interrupted and think that the civic education they learned at school means first listening and then replicating; it is these children, these children.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u100	[[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE and AL-A groups.]] It is the Italians we will call in the Chamber, we will call in the house, we will call in the seats, we will go home. [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups]] VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. It's a threat. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. It is considered a threat by those who do not have a great experience of popular votes taken personally. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Who accuses us today of plebiscite is the same that yesterday accused us of self-referentiality, in a curious alternation of accusations more motivated by a personal and political resentment than by an objective judgment on reality. But there must be a total and global responsibility. I personally stated in front of the press, and I repeat this here in front of the senators and senators, that if I lost the referendum, I would consider my political experience to be over. [[Ironic applause from the M5S and LN-Aut Groups]] VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. Bravo! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. I did it because I believe deeply in a value: the dignity of one's commitment to public affairs. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Pack your bags! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No comments, please. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. I think of when someone, in this debate, has disturbed personalism, ignoring that there is a great distinction between personalism and personalization (let me tell you who grew up with Maritain, with Mounier, with the thought of community personalism: it is not that because one has Twitter then has forgotten the points of reference, the noble fathers of the thought from which it comes). But the key point of this debate today is not exasperated personalization, it is not an attempt to turn a referendum into a plebiscite; it is to recover that thread of credibility of the person and public commitment. How can we imagine, after such an exciting and extraordinary ride, unique in seventy years, that we can go to a referendum on what is the mother of all the reforms and not draw any consequences if there is no positive vote? How can we fail to note that the political commitment made regardless of the consensus of the citizens has ended? How can we imagine that, at a time like what we are experiencing, we cannot try to make clear and evident the greatness of the challenge we are facing? This challenge shows that the power that we exercise and from which we do not hide - because the word "power" is neither positive nor negative: it is an instrument of service in favour of an idea and a process of change of the country - makes sense if it is put on the field to change Italy. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] I take the explicit commitment here: in the event of defeat we will draw the consequences. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] NUGNES (M5S). Bravo! Bravo! [[Call the president back.]] Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. But I also say that, precisely for this reason, it will be fascinating to see the same joyous faces as now the day after the referendum, when the citizens, with the reform, will have demonstrated on which side Italy stands [[Applause from the PD, AP, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups) and AL-A.]] They are on the side of those who believe, of those who try, of those who do not spend time complaining. This is the Italy that is starting again. In the key moments of my political commitment, like this, I happen to rethink my education, linked to scouting. With a programmatic expression, which many also know in this House from personal experience, the Scout world says: I place my honour in deserving trust. CRIMI (M5S). Please, come on! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. In two years I can't count the number of times we've asked you for trust. In this we have, perhaps, exercised a record that is not very positive. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). It's a crazy number! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. The good thing is that you never denied it, even when we didn't agree on everything. I say this because, although I am not here at that time, I am well aware of the fatigue and suffering with which, for example, some of you - starting with some of my party's senators - voted to tighten up the sanctions on the so-called road murder. [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi. Laughter]] But in trusting the Government you have given confidence to the greatest process of change ever achieved. The fact that it arouses enthusiasm and laughter in some of my colleagues reminds us that every time we have gained confidence, it is proof that at least they can stay for a while in this parliamentary term and they too are more relaxed. The real point, however, is that constitutional reforms do not put trust, but have restored confidence to the Italians. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] If the Senate is able to overcome itself, it means that nothing is impossible for Italy; it means that politics is not just a cross of verbal blades in some brisk talk show; that politics is the highest form of civil service; that politics is today the instrument through which Italy can share. After decades in which anti-politics has been caressed, paradoxically today it is politics that is making Italy start again. For months they told us a fascinating story like a fairy tale, but also false as a fairy tale: they told us that Italy was starting again for external factors. NUGNES (M5S). No? Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. We were told that 20-dollar oil would save the country. Do we realize that the geopolitical blunders that you are creating are such as to paradoxically question the economic situation from a geopolitical point of view? The balance changes; a war is being waged on the price of energy. [[Senator Cioffi's comments.]] They told us for years that inflation would be shared with quantitative easing (QE), which is an important fact... MARTELLI (M5S). But when? Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. ...but he can't restart inflation for the time being. If, then, these external factors have certainly allowed us to stabilize some sectors, it is also true that it is not the external factors that have restarted Italy; it was the fact that the reform mechanism has finally started again. Italy starts again if internal consumption starts again; if there is the confidence of the people; if we finally interrupt a negative story that for twenty years we have carried along, in which, after having been for fifty years the leaders of growth at the global level, we suddenly became the taillight, the Cinderella of growth because we stopped considering our elements of strength as reference points. Today Italy is there. There's with the entrepreneur who didn't fire during the crisis... WOMAN (M5S). And the one who killed himself. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. ...with the teacher who works hard with her students, those who were hired despite someone calling them "deported"; there is with the craftsman, who sees in globalization the greatest opportunity for Italy and not the enemy (other than fleeing from the euro: Europe is the biggest opportunity, if Europe stops talking only about austerity and finally tries to take the path of growth). There is with the innovator, who follows a good idea, although he is often on unknown paths. There is with Grandpa, who is more and more the financial column of one or more families; there is with the honest public official, who can not more than some colleague who continues to try us through swindling mechanisms. To this Italy you have given a demonstration; you have said that there is a Senate and there are senators who question their role, who question their commitment, who are able to look to tomorrow with courage, trust and enthusiasm. This Italy that we frequent, that we know every day, is a Italy that today sees in the Senate of the Republic the most extraordinary of the stories possible, and the one to which it would never have believed: the political class that gives the example. [[Senator Donno's comments.]] I believe that yes, as the British statesman said: history will take care of you. Now is the time - just a moment - to stop and look at what we have done; there is time - just a moment - to say thank you, to sincerely thank you from the bottom of your heart. Then, again on the march, determined and smiling again, capable of not responding to provocations, courageous and humble, tenacious and cheerful, telling an Italy that is not that set of misfortunes that someone wants to continue to represent; knowing that it is a great gift to be able to have the responsibility to lead the most beautiful country in the world, but also knowing that no goal can be achieved if you do not want to start again. And then yes, you wrote a story page, senators and senators. Now, however, I propose that you continue and, for the next two years, write the page of a possible future for a country that has an extraordinary need for politics. Long live Italy! [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), AL-A and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups]] . The Senators of the Misto-SEL Group display signs with the inscription "NO".
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u101	Put those signs away. I'm begging the quaestors to intervene. Senator De Petris, you who are the Parent Company, obey and remove that cartel.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u104	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I shall be very brief. As we have already pointed out in the general debate, this reform is not the best, but it is certainly good where it responds to a parliamentary debate, which began with the so-called Bozzi Commission in 1983, which over the last thirty years has produced, in the political and academic sphere, an awareness of the need to end the experience, almost unique in the scenario of current democracies, of perfect bicameralism. [[Senator Zavoli enters the Chamber accompanied by parliamentary assistants. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u105	The applause is addressed to Senator Zavoli who, despite the health conditions, has chosen to be present and participate in today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u106	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). I would also like to thank Senator Zavoli, whose presence in this House honours his political commitment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is On behalf of the House, I thank Senator Zavoli. Please, Senator Romani. ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). We are convinced that the present generation has the right to be called upon to contribute to a fundamental and renewed Charter. We are convinced that the committees for and against the reform will lead to a large participation in the referendum and, if the vote is not transformed into an ideological battle of partisan and status quo and a plebiscite on the President of the Council, it will be a path of great participatory democracy, since Italy, as Senator Fornaro recalled this morning, is part of those 117 countries out of 195 in which democracy exists and is one of the 90 countries in which there is an effective democracy. The reform that we are about to vote on is trying to respond to the time we are in and the historic moment in which we live. We want to invite voters to fully understand the importance of their referendum. We need authoritative democratic institutions legitimated by the people, able to give certain answers in order to be credited to the citizens and - why not - to have a positive credit, a rating that does not discredit our country, but makes us reliable in Europe and beyond. We will do so with the intellectual awareness and honesty of those who acknowledge the merits and limitations of this reform and will not make electoral propaganda about our Constitution. We, Senators of the Italy component of the values of the Mixed Group, will vote in favour of this reform, because we are convinced that it is not an attack on democracy, nor a transition to oligarchy. We believe that it is a living Constitution if we have the courage to reform it without electoral law. [[Applause from the PD Group. Bursium]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u107	I ask the senators to come to their seats or leave the Chamber. We cannot allow explanations of vote to take place with this buzz, which does not allow the speaker to be heard.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u110	Bisinella (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mr Ministers, we Senators of the Fare component! of the Mixed Group we are fed up, like the Italians, of the swamp and of the immobilism that paralyze Italy for over forty years and let's say enough. This reform is not the best possible and at first reading, and in the second reading we looked at the various areas of content. However, together with the reform of the electoral system, which was necessary, it guarantees at least governance, which is an indispensable condition for things to finally be done in the country. Today this system, unlike the previous one, finally sees the end of the perfect bicameralism. Therefore this reform, precisely with the end of the perfect bicameralism and along with the reform of the electoral law (which, I remind everyone, was necessary), finally clarifies who wins. We will know the outcome of the votes, that only one will win, and that one will have the right to rule. For Italian citizens, priority must be given, in the words and language of politics, to issues related to work, to our businesses, to workers, to the family, to agriculture, to trade. These must be the issues that must become a priority in political action. We then say enough about immobilism, enough about the swamp that paralyzes any change. For us, what is important is that the reform process in the country continues. Between this reform - which I repeat, is not the best text possible - and no reform is however preferable to have a change, which is what the Italians rightly claim. We will listen carefully to the statements that will take place in this House, because we are considering the path of reform and we want to see how the path of change will be. But one thing is certain: we say enough to the swamp, enough to the games of obstruction, always and anyway, enough to the politics of the much worse so much the better. We are considering, and certainly ours will not be against, because we think that reforms must go ahead and that they must be carried out. Immobilism and swamp leave them to others. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups and Senators Bellot and Romans Maurizio. Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u111	Before I go on with the statements, I keep begging my colleagues to keep quiet. Explanations of vote cannot be made in this climate. Please lower your tones or, better, go out and discuss.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u114	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, especially on the occasion of this final vote on the Senate, I join your words in begging the senators to have respect for this House, first of all for the institution, and for those who try to represent the citizens in the best possible way, supporting the reasons of the citizens and the Italians. You see, Mr President, representatives of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council... [[Brusio]] Mr President, I apologise, but I do not intend to make my speech under these painful conditions. I won't! Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if what you have just concluded calls a response to the most important constitutional reform of our time, we... [[Brusio.]] IN MAY (CoR). President, kick out the ministers who make a mess!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u115	I beg the Assistants and Senators to intervene to eliminate people... [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] But it is clear that I was referring to the presence in this House and to those who are talking. Senator D'Ascola, Senator Pagliari, I am sorry to have to mention the names, but please continue speaking outside the Chamber. Senator Gotor, can you invite Senator Zanda to sit outside and talk?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u116	Mr President, thank you. Senator Gotor, hold the eternal Congress of the Democratic Party for a moment and let us make our explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u117	Senator Bonfrisco, please don't provoke. I've worked hard to get her to talk, but you don't provoke.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u118	BONFRISCO (CoR). And I work hard to respect this House, Mr President. To the President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to say that if the President-in-Office of the Council calls for a response to the general debate on constitutional reform, we call it a dangerous self-exaltation, which makes us even more appreciate the work of Mr Boschi, who in this House has tried, every day of the long debate on reforms, to share and confront the whole House on the substance of the text, a reform text to which I repeat right from the start, and I start from the end, our conviction is not. Ours is not convinced, Mr President, certainly not because my Group considers the Constitution to be an untouchable totem; on the contrary, we Conservatives and Reformists believe that we can and must change it in order to make it consistent with the changed needs of our country. It is that I regret, Mr President, to see how this important reform opportunity has been lost, despite the desperate need of the country for a real modern restructuring of its institutional system. Gentlemen of the majority, you started at the beginning of the debate, rightly I say, from the need for reforms for the modernization of the country. What did you do, though? You have adopted the solution of exchanging a real legislative assembly with a wheelchair, whose composition rather than participation seems to respond only to the logic of the consolation prizes for local politicians. You could have abolished this Senate, as we proposed. Why did you refuse? Thanks to your lack of reforms, thanks also to the nos you have said to the proposals for modification of my Group, in Italy you will be able to continue without limits to pursue expenses with revenues, to abuse the incomes and assets of citizens, without a rag of guarantee that puts embankments both to the unlimited fame of the money of the State and to its waste. You have also narrowed the areas of regional autonomy, rather than challenging the regions to a qualitative leap in the management of taxes and charges equivalent to taxes. You, on the other hand, are centralized and de-responsible, rather than moving in the opposite direction. Mr President, I say this to you above all, for me a reform can only be worthy of this name in one way, that is, with full respect for the procedures and procedures that the Constitutional Charter itself imposes - it would be better to say, it would have imposed - to guarantee the fundamental nature of its provisions which represent the state's core architecture. This reform - and I say this with sincere regret - is not worthy of this name. It is not because a real expropriation of sovereignty has taken place, a real expropriation carried out by the Government to the detriment of the entire Parliament and therefore of the citizens. It is not because a constitutional reform cannot be called Boschi-Renzi (or Renzi-Boschi, as we have learned today) bringing back to the government an activity that the Constitution reserves for initiative and parliamentary action. It is a mistake already made in the past: the Berlusconi Government did it and we all know how it ended. It is not because the Senate, which will have to be elected with a bizarre system to be determined by ordinary law, has been configured as a sort of Chamber of Autonomies, which would have had a sense if sewn into a model of federal state (such as Italy is not, and unfortunately shows that it does not want to be), also in the light of the reform of Title V, that operated by you, also on this occasion of marked return to a centralizing mold. It is not, because the choice to have the senators-advisors elected by the regional councils, as written by you, will generate many uncertainties, since the councilors seem subject to a sort of double investiture (popular and council), while instead the election of the mayors will remain exclusive business of the regional councils and their discretion. Not to mention the option on how to link the popular vote to the council election, which was entirely postponed to a bicameral electoral law. Mrs. Boschi, therefore, pending the intervention of the ordinary legislator (who knows when it will happen), the Regional Councils will elect the members of the new Senate. The transitional provision indicates how to proceed with the election with a proportional method, but without any provision on the first election, the real one, the one that should be popular, whose discipline is entirely postponed to a very uncertain and future electoral law. If we then analyze the large number of times in which the deadlines set by the constitutional norms have been disregarded by the ordinary legislator (think of the recent case of federalism), there is a very high risk that even this form of indirect election, even that little election that exists, will remain dead letter. This is only a case, although emblematic, of the rosary of laws that will have to be approved in order to implement decisive aspects of constitutional reform. Like that on the modalities and also on the incisiveness of the controls of the Senate on government appointments, or that in the matter of equal opportunities, dear colleagues of the PD, for women in political positions, who risk concretely to remain yet another commercial, without the intervention of the ordinary legislator (who knows when it will come). Even a mediocre jurist - and I am not even that - would be able to understand that on fundamental issues reform does not decide, but merely postpones any decision to laws that perhaps, at the heart of future majorities, will be made in the future. We are actually about to vote not on a constitutional change, but on a constitutional law that delegates. I think this is the first time this has happened in this Parliament and it is not a good record, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. That is why this is a reform that does not reform and that, thanks also to the new electoral law, will consecrate the government's overpower over Parliament, a Parliament reduced to a rag. There is no longer the Senate, whose role could be compensated by an increase in the powers of the Head of State (our guarantor by name), whose powers, on the contrary, have also been reduced to a light. Let us bear in mind, ladies and gentlemen, that it will no longer be the President of the Republic who will hand over the keys of the Government to the President of the Council, but the majority prize of an electoral law (which you voted on) that distorts democracy, as we have always denounced. But not only that. The President of the Republic has even been deprived of the power to dissolve the Senate and, implicitly, also the Chamber, which will be in the hands of the leader of the majority party that will be crowned thanks to the Italianum, which will decree its life or death. In fact, we are discussing here a change that changes the verse - as Prime Minister Renzi likes to say - but in the opposite direction: against popular sovereignty, which is further compressed and cancelled. That's the point. An open conflict is created with the so-called supreme principles of the order, among which, precisely, the one for which - ahivoj! - sovereignty belongs to the people. Today we are called to ratify the snatch to the citizens of two important electoral ballots: the one for the Senate, but also the referendum. In fact, instead of eliminating the quorum for the validity of the referendums, you have raised the threshold of signatures necessary to present it. Not to mention the laws of popular initiative, whose necessary signatures have even fivefold. Put together then the fact that - as I have already said - the senators will no longer be elected by the citizens and the circle of your complicated relationship with the popular vote closes. You have been bickering with universal suffrage since 1948. At the time, the call to the polls, for the first time, of Italian women made the victory fade already in the pocket of the People's Front. It happened again in 1994, even when you had a joyous war machine, but the Italian people once again said no to you. It is precisely to that people that Renzi will address in the long electoral campaign on the referendum, which will not concern the merit or, indeed, the demerit of the reforms, but his person, in his role as President of the Council, who is also secretary of the party. All we need is for you to take on the position of spiritual leader and that's how I turn you into a democracy - alas! - imperfect as any, in a democracy that only Orwell could have imagined. But since we're in the time of "Matrix" and not those of Orwell; is that why perhaps it is necessary for some party friends to take care of cybersecurity? I can already hear President Renzi say, on unified networks, that he has suppressed the Senate. I wish he had! We will also hear him say that the laws will get faster. He will then say that he has reduced the costs of politics and that he has increased the guarantees of governability. I can already hear the echo of these refrains. [[Brusio]] Mrs. Minister, I apologize. I know you have a lot to do, and the Undersecretary doesn't help you do it, but please listen.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u119	Senator Bonfrisco, please finish. Time's been running out for a long time.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u120	BONFRISCO (CoR). I can already hear the echo of these refrains. Mr President, of course I shall finish, but I would like to remind you that our Premier has spoken for a long time about serious and important things that had nothing to do with the reforms. I am sure that you will give me a minute to conclude, too, by virtue of this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I've already granted three. BONFRISCO (CoR). Think of all those who have taken away from me the example that this House has set today. How will the President-in-Office explain to the Italians that he has taken away their sovereignty? Will you also tell them, as you said in this House today, that it does not go into the substance of the reforms? In fact, it cannot enter into that matter because the objective for him was and remains a colossal propaganda to force you majority senators to vote for this harmful ugliness. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] But be careful, you may have done the mathematics without the innkeeper and have completely misjudged your calculations, as you have already done in other times and I have just reminded you of that. In fact, it may be that, to sit on the comfortable armchairs that you have prepared, the Italians send us someone else you had not foreseen! For all these reasons, for those that I have said and for those that will identify the Italians when they vote no to that referendum that hides a gigantic scam (such as subtracting power from the Italians and concentrating it in the hands of a few), I repeat the conviction no to this reform of the Conservative and Reformist Group. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u123	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would ask you to ensure that you are not listening to me, but at least that you can speak because the poor woman who preceded me was not in a position to do so and I apologise for the other colleagues. I am sorry that the President-in-Office of the Council has already escaped because, after taking up his half-hour sermon, [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S, Misto-AEcT and Senator Bignami Groups]] , I wanted to let him know the summary of his speech that I translate into two words: Here I go. I don't know if anyone's seen the movie, but if they've seen Renzi, they've seen it before. Here I go, it's that thing there. I am very sorry, Mr President, because I do not understand the reason for all this violence with regard to the Charter of Rights and Obligations. I do not understand why we had to come to this House without a rapporteur. I do not understand why we had to vote on a reform which, as we all know, cannot be taken over by the House until 12 April. We are faced with the usual will to show the muscles to hide everything else that falls, because the economic world is falling. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E) and Senators Bignami, Buccarella, Liuzzi and Rizzotti.]] What was the need for that useless scene of tonight with the night and what - I imagine - cost? Maybe there is a need for darkness because with the darkness we wander the dachshund bands, the evildoers and, therefore, much less we see and much less we know of this reform and the more likely it is to pass. Is it possible that there must, even, always be the court of miracles? Mr President, Minister, I spent my political life and half of my age following the reforms and, in addition to having dedicated my life to it, I also sacrificed our health: I remember when, in 2012, I was admitted to a hospital room, having just been operated on by a malignant tumor and still wearing several tubes, came President Gasparri and all the majority group leaders, to write with me the amendments to the reform of 2012. I also remember 2014 when, like an idiot, I was present at the meetings of the Commission and the Chamber with the wire of metal that held me together the various fractures of the fingers and a block that supported me three fractured vertebrae. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti.]] Despite everything, I stayed here, because I was deluded, and I stayed there even when my poor mom passed away. If I think about those moments today, I think it would have been better to bring a ember and burn a hand than to have believed people, who, on that occasion, showed an absolute intellectual dishonesty. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, CoR and LAG groups (GS, PpI, M, MBI, Id, E-E) and Senator Bignami]] I cannot, therefore, fail to compare with what happened in 1947. In 1947, the liberal and lay Benedict Cross - I emphasize the lay adjective - asked the Fathers to inspire the Holy Spirit. We have a Constitution that had, then, an inspiration from the Holy Spirit. I wonder who inspired this pseudo-reform. This is the reform of the devil, it is the reform of the devil! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator De Pin]] After devoting so much energy and sacrifice and having done everything, first to build it and then to stop it - I did not succeed with the 85 million amendments that, with the scam and deception, you blocked - I begged the good Lord to stop you. And, having failed, I thought about the work of Dr. Faust, the scholar who exchanged his soul with the devil, for twenty-four years of knowledge of all sciences. At this point, I said: I'm talking to the devil too! It was not easy to contact him, even though he knew several satanassi in politics. [[Laughter),]] and they are still wandering around in this House. So I thought I'd turn to the guardian devil. Each of us, in fact, on the right has the guardian angel, who pushes us to do good and not to do evil, and on the left - casually - there is the guardian devil. Then I turned to him - I think his name was Mephistopheles - saying to him: Dear little devil, I need to talk to your boss. And he replied that it was not possible because, being a practicing Catholic, I could not meet Satan himself. After telling him I was gonna put my soul on the plate, he set up an appointment and let me meet him the next day. So I met Satan to whom I said: Dear Dr. Satan, if you do not give 161 votes to Renzi, to approve his reform, I give you my soul. Dr. Satan, at that point, looked at me weird, laughed and said, Dear Calderoli, you have arrived late with your soul, because here Renzi has already passed with his daddy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the senators Rizzotti, Bignami and De Pin.]] It is curious that Satan also speaks in Tuscany. [[Laughter.]] Dear Calderoli, here is the Woods with their daddy [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] And so I can't because, in the exchange of four souls with one, I'd tear it down. And then, frankly, a pain in the ass like you, here in hell I don't want it, because you would call me back to the rules of hell, the prejudices about the access of the various souls. And, therefore, go up to the good Lord, who is so good, gracious and patient. But go quietly, because the votes for the reform will have them, because they gave their souls. But always remember that the flour of the devil's sack ends up in bran and this will happen again this time. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E) and Senator De Pin]] I am convinced - Mr President, I was convinced by Mr Satan - that this will actually end in this way, because you have won a majority here, and tomorrow there will be the renewal of the presidencies of the Commissions and some post as Undersecretary or Minister will be redistributed. Well, one third of those who will vote for this reform were elected in the centre-right and went to vote with the left. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is the paradox and we have all given in this sense. I don't only resent colleagues from the New Right Center, because such cases have occurred in the PdL, in Forza Italia, in the 5 Star Movement, in SEL, in the Mixed Group and also in the North League. What I must point out as a curiosity is that those who were elected in the center-right vote for the left, but we have a President-in-Office of the Council and secretary of a left-wing party that makes or pretends to make right-wing policies. He pretends to argue with Europe. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] Now she's gonna come by and fire the buggers, reminding me of what Brunetta said. In a while he will even say that we must expel the illegals in order to try to chase the train of good Salvini. And then there are the candidates: in Rome who do we apply? Not a leftist, but a radical. Who are we running for in Milan? A center-right guy, and that's fair. That is not how the world works, because what you have achieved in the parliamentary classrooms will be served when you get out of here and go to the referendum, and there the people are waiting for you. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Bignami and Rizzotti]] I am sorry, President Renzi, you were wrong when you said that if you fail, since you will be a plebiscite about yourself and not about the reforms, you will go home. The whole country is waiting for you at the caudine forks! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups and Senator Bignami]] In fact, the 340 who turned the gabbana will not be enough. Out there waiting are the scams of Banca Etruria, those who will be cheated by the next banks, the poor victims of the Fornero law, those who do not arrive at the end of the month, the doctors, the teachers, the students. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups and Senator Bignami]] They'll show you and you'll go home! Last week I said, dear Renzi, prepare the boxes. Today I say to you: prepare the boxes, because in October you go home and start looking for a job for the first time. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups and Senators Bignami and De Pin.]] Only the noble work and perhaps, through that road, will be able to save himself from hell. If you withdraw from politics, you will surely save the country from that hell you have thrown us into with your government art. I conclude with one of the many references to the philosophers that our President-in-Office has made today. I'll quote one myself. The savage wakes up at dawn, sees the sun rising and says: The sun rose because I woke up. She goes further: she is convinced that she is the sun, a sun on a day of eclipse. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII, M5S and GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E) and Senators Di Maggio and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u124	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u126	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Mr President, first of all I would like to express my congratulations and my contentment because I see that the dear and kind Senator Zavoli has joined us. And I say this because your presence reminds us that we have been agreed here today on a very precise agenda: we had to talk about the constitutional change. However, it has distracted us from this commitment the intervention of the dear and kind President of the Council, who has used the generous time granted to him for a long propaganda in favour of government action. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E) and Senator Bignami.]] Now I would like to say, for the benefit of the Italians who follow us and the media, what is the reason why the President of the Council must sum up positively the action of government: the Renzi Government has rigged the accounts of the law of stability. [[Applause from the GAL Groups (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E), M5S and LN-Aut and Senators Bignami and Rizzotti.]] He rigged the state accounts! EU officials have been trying to tell him and put him on the alert for months. And the President of the Council considers it more appropriate to drag the country into a fruitless and delusional war with the European institutions to hide the fact that he has rigged the state accounts. That's the first problem! [[Applause from the GAL Groups (GS, PpI, M, MBI, Id, E-E), FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut and Senator Bignami]] Closed the parenthesis that concerns government propaganda, let's talk about the Constitution. A scam is also in place on the Constitution. The reform of the Constitution, in fact, had as its objective to allow the quickening of parliamentary procedures, putting the country in a position to confront other countries, to return competitive. Instead, what have they given us, my friends, friends Italian citizens? A football field where you play baseball with the rules of American football: the most absolute confusion; a structure in which the State war against the Republic, the institutions of autonomy; where, in reality, there is no increase in decision-making, but the impossibility forever that the people make the decisions. What gives us as a legacy this reality of constitutional change perpetrated by the constituent Fathers? No, just bullying fathers, who nailed the chance for all of us to have a better tomorrow. That is the reality. This is the foundation of our no, of a no that we will go home to say, so that people can realize, to be fully aware of the reason why Senator Zavoli came here this evening: the civil passion for our Constitution, for the rules of our being together, the motivation that can prevent our country from degenerating into civil war. (18.51) (MAURO Mario followed). In fact, I would like you all to remember a little detail. The main argument of many perplexed about constitutional change is: let's do something, as long as it moves, let's put the state in a position to improve itself. What happens, though, if you remove the hand brake from a car that is on an inclined plane that gives on a precipice? That car's moving, but it's falling into the void. And that's what's gonna happen to us with a constitutional change that's inside nothing. [[Applause from the GAL Groups (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E), LN-Aut and Senator Bignami]] ). In fact, it is a constitutional change that crashes, destroys, disintegrates the leading parts of the state. But there is still an opportunity, and President Napolitano reminded us well, when, in his last speech, he told us to pay attention to the combined arrangement between constitutional reform and electoral law, because there they could nest themselves with the unknowns, the pitfalls that it is good to try to resolve and overcome and to which it is good to look with an intelligence that knows how to anticipate exactly what the President of the Council has called us. What does the President-in-Office say? No problem with conflicts of jurisdiction between the powers of the State. The opposite is true: it is a short circuit, in which the judicial and legislative powers are subordinate to the executive power and, in the end, this translates with only one expression: the end of democracy, the end of the Republic, not the end of the Senate. [[Applause from the LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E), LN-Aut and CoR and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u129	Mr Mazzoni (AL-A). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from 1982 to the present day, from the 8th to the 17th, there has been no legislature in republican history in which the node of constitutional reforms has not been addressed, and all the draft laws presented have raised the problem of achieving a thorough revision of the second part of the Constitution. If all these attempts have failed, there is a reason. Italy - and its political class is its mirror - has remained divided and perched behind the old ideological barriers: first there were the communists and the anti-communists, the Christian Democrats and the anti-Hemochristians, the Craxians and the anti-Craxians; then, in the second Republic, the Berlusconians and the anti-Berlusconians, in a crescendo of grudges and mutual delegitimation that penalized the country, its development and above all the quality of its democracy. The debate of these days, unfortunately, shows that nothing or almost has changed, because today politics continues to divide itself prejudiceally, and this time between Renziani and anti-Rentians, and in a Pavlovian way repeats the same patterns customary, the same accusations artifacts, the same insults regardless, of when the Government was Berlusconi, of which the left said that it had authoritarian impulses, that with it Italy counted nothing in Europe and that it was to be cast out in the supreme interest of safeguarding constitutional values. Yesterday the aspiring tyrant was Silvio Berlusconi, today Matteo Renzi became him, and, in oddly reversed parts, the center-right - the same as Monti and Letta accused of being succubs of the European Union - droves against the current Premier, because he dares raise his voice against the bureaucrats of Brussels. It is, in short, a sadly repetitive scenario, a alternating political fascism that led the left to sink the constitutional reform of the center-right in the 2006 referendum, and now causes the center-right to hurricane itself against this reform, which first shared and helped to write and then inexplicably repudiated. It is a dawn of fascism that we do not want proudly to enroll in. When Parliament launches this reform, we will finally confront each other in the country, and it will then be interesting to see the spectacle of the fans of the most beautiful Constitution in the world and of the former reformists of the center-right, who for twenty years have faced each other on opposite sides, go hand in hand to support in front of the citizens that in Italy we are at the front of the institutional coup. And he will be very sorry to see the head of this new violet people, of this counter-reformist roundabout, precisely the leader of Forza Italia, the liberal who modernised politics and called for years to strengthen the powers of the Premier, but who now denounces the authoritarian drift, thus finding himself in singular harmony with his pervicacious opponent, Professor Zagrebelsky, founder of the committee of the No, for which with the bill Boschi we assist the arming of power, its concentration in the hands of the Executive to the detriment of Parliament and citizens. The truth is another: after almost seventy years, Parliament is finally implementing the Perassi agenda, which committed the constituent Assembly to finding constitutional arrangements to protect the stability requirements of government action and to avoid the degeneration of parliamentarism. Well, electoral reform and constitutional reform have precisely the ambition to deliver to the country not an autarchic regime, but a more stable government and parliamentarism without degeneration, because based on the clear distinction of roles between a House holder of the relationship of trust with the Executive and a Senate of the self-governments, thus overcoming that bicameralism equal that has become the ball at the foot of our democracy. This is exactly what has been happening for some time in so many other Western democracies that have electoral laws with implicit or explicit ultra-majoritarian awards and a monocameral system, but where no one has ever allowed himself to overshadow authoritarian risks. This is a historic step towards a more mature democracy. Having a stronger Executive does not mean emptying parliamentary prerogatives. It only means guaranteeing political stability and putting behind us the Assemblyism that has become a system that has produced so many weak governments and too many Premier travicelli. Here I open a parenthesis to launch a warning to the sailors: the Italicum revised and updated because of the compromises to the bottom, that Renzi has had to do with his party and his coalition of government, that it previews a prize of majority of only 24 MPs, risks to return the Executives that will come, in spite of the constitutional reform, to the political blackmails of organized minorities - and in the PD, orphan of the democratic centralism, are particularly aggressive - able to assert at all times their power of veto. In short, it would be necessary to revise the new electoral law, but for the reason opposed to the one supported by those who shout at the coup and man only in command. Having said that, I wonder, however, how it is possible that those who shared the spirit and substance of the devolution in 2005 can today cut off this reform with such virulence, which will also be the reform of the devil, but ask us why then, yesterday as today, it was expected that the Senate would be representative of the interests of the territory. Yesterday, as today, it was proposed to reduce the number of Members (770 and 730); yesterday, as today, it was intended to abolish bicameralism. In addition, both reforms bring to the head of the state some strategic issues that the revision of Title V had delivered to the Regions, giving rise to a perennial institutional litigation. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] Is the time available to me over, Mr President? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No. I was trying to draw the attention of those who lovelyly do their own business and disturb them. Please, Senator Mazzoni. Mr Mazzoni (AL-A). Thank you, Mr President. Finally, both reforms strengthen state substitution power as a guarantee of national unity. Of course, this is not a perfect reform, starting from the mess about the direct eligibility of the new Senate and the lack of the Premier's power to dissolve the Chambers, but rather an imperfect reform than no reform. And to those who dispute that there will be an imbalance in the relationship of force between the House and the Government and between the Government and the Head of State it suffices to remember that there are instead many counterweights previewed: to elect the President of the Republic - for example - the only absolute majority will no longer be sufficient, but that of the three fifths, and the Senate will elect autonomously two constitutional judges. Not only that: the cases of recourse to decree-laws are limited and the statute of opposition is finally provided. And these - I would stress this - are not only the reforms of the Prime Minister or the Government, but also and above all the reforms of Parliament and the political forces that have helped to rewrite them, because the original text that came out of the Council of Ministers has been greatly improved. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today this House will be writing a decisive page in the political history of our country. After a decade of debate, we will finally come to the modernisation of the institutional system. We believe that we have taken a responsible position, in the awareness that it is not in the interest of the country to set aside good for the best and that the policy of continuous revival means only the continuation of the war to reforms by other means. We do not intend, therefore, to mix with the Brancariform army of the girotondini of all time and those climbed on the train of conservative maximumism. I therefore confirm the vote in favour of this draft Constitutional Reform Act by the Liberal Popular-Autonomous Group. In April, the path began on 18 January 2014, the day when the leaders of the center-left and centre-right pressed the so-called Nazarene pact. Two years have passed since that meeting and next October, a thousand days later, there will be a confirmation referendum. We had hoped that this pact, with Berlusconi crossing the threshold of the Nazarene, would definitively close twenty years of sterile opposition and paralysing ideological confrontation. That was not the case, and it was a mistake that the Italian people will first have to judge. But we have the belief that we have chosen the right part. [[Applause from the AL-A Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u130	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u132	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, at the beginning of this parliamentary term no one would have said that Parliament and, in the first place, this Senate would have been able to approve the constitutional reforms that have been expected for decades, especially when we consider the many past attempts at reform that have failed despite far greater majorities. I myself took part in the work of the bicameral Commission chaired by Massimo D'Alema in the 1990s and in the so-called Calderoli reform ten years ago. Both, after a start that seemed promising, did not reach the desired goal. The experiences I have mentioned serve to show that the objective of good reform is not enough, but that we must also take into account the political feasibility of the reform itself, which inevitably leads to mediations compared to what the proposers initially wanted. We are in the presence of an ambitious draft reform, which will not be the best and which certainly has some shortcomings, but which has so far found the consent of this Parliament. The Senate, in particular, has shown great responsibility: rarely in republican history does a parliamentary institution decide to strip itself of much of its powers. While the House has not undergone significant changes, the Senate has reformed itself, losing much of its powers and demonstrating the greatest possible openness to the revision and change of its role, composition, functions and competences. The overcoming of the bicameralism of equality, the significant reduction in the number of parliamentarians and the transformation of the Senate into a Chamber of representation of territorial autonomy are - in our opinion - objectives achieved. I do not deny that we, as the Group for the Self-Government, would have hoped for a strengthening of the regionalist system for the reform of Title V, version 2001, while we are now facing a return to the centralization of powers and a weakening of the ordinary regions. It is also true that we are facing a reform promoted by the Government, in particular by the President-in-Office of the Council and Minister Boschi, which therefore has its centre of gravity in favour of the Executive and the leader of the winning party by the political elections. It is also true, however, that, in the various passages (today we are in the fifth passage in the parliamentary classrooms), there has been a real parliamentary confrontation, sometimes even harsh, and we will certainly be able, beyond the vote, to continue to reason on the necessary institutional balances. But we do not share the position of those who present this reform as completely free of counterweights to the reinforced role of the Government. And it is not a reform that, together with the new electoral law, introduces into our institutional and parliamentary system a deficit of democracy or establishes the end, even, of the Republic born with the Constitutional Charter. The democratic system sanctioned by the parliamentary mechanism remains, but it becomes simpler and leaner, eliminating that anomaly that was the perfect bicameralism, where two Chambers did exactly the same things and were both holders of the relationship of trust with the Government. And the renewed constitutional organization introduces the more rational system of the legislative process, leaving to the Senate only a few and less incisive forms of control and intervention, except for constitutional laws and few other laws. It is a necessary and indivisible reform, as President Emeritus Giorgio Napolitano has rightly said, which has played a decisive role in supporting the constitutional reform process. And we take advantage of that to reiterate it. It is a reform that does not allow a political customization of the confirmed referendum on which citizens will be called upon to express their views, instead of requiring the political parties to discuss the referendum in its objectivity, substance and content. And it is a reform that conceives the Senate as a substantial Chamber of representation of territorial autonomy, although - in our opinion - this option could have had a more organic and consistent path with reference to the reality and role of the German Bundesrat. We do not consider it positive that, in essence, the Regions no longer have a concurrent legislative competence but, in fact, an implementing competence of less practical importance: the insertion of a new clause of supremacy of the State and, above all, the new limit of the new general norms of the State, which introduces in the ordinary Regions a kind of concurrent competence weakened, will not help to reduce the disputes. In any case, I believe that although the Senate functions are less incisive than the current ones, there are potentials to develop. Much depends on the choice of regions. If they send second or third row members to the Senate, it will become an irrelevant and, perhaps, useless organ. If, instead, it will be the seat where all the Governors of the 19 Regions and the two Autonomous Provinces will compare, then it will have a considerable political weight and assume the function of a real Chamber of Autonomouss. For us, representatives of the special autonomy, this reform protects the competences and powers in place, because it excludes the special regions from the application of the new Title V, requiring the revision of our statutes to a future constitutional law on the basis of agreement. In this way the pact clause was introduced for the first time in Republican history, which will allow regional assemblies to carry out a genuine reform initiative without having to fear unilateral impositions by Parliament. The international agreements, in particular the guarantees of the De Gasperi-Gruber agreement, are clearly still in force. It is, in essence, a reform that also guarantees the balanced representation of the Special Regions and the two Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano in the new Senate. The specificity of the Autonomous Province of Bolzano has also been taken into account, ensuring the representation of both the major linguistic groups, German and Italian. It is a reform that, with the reformulation of Article 116, introduced at the last reading here in the Senate, provides for the new and simplified procedure for the transfer of powers of itself state, such as the environment, applicable not only to ordinary regions but also to special virtuous regions. Finally, we must recognize the Government and the majority who have shown themselves sensitive to our essential requests, and I take this opportunity to thank Minister Boschi, Undersecretary Pizzetti and President Finocchiaro for their constant and great commitment. I therefore declare the Group's vote in favour. [[Applause from the groups (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and PD.]] (at 19.10 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u135	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, a great lay intellectual like Benedetto Croce, on 11 March 1947, concluded his speech to the constituent Assembly with the words of the sublime hymn - as he defined it - "Vini, creator spiritus" to emphasize the solemnity and sacredness of that moment and of that Assembly, even in the harsh and sometimes tearing confrontation that attraversed it, but indeed sacred, because the Republican Constitution was being written, that is, the law of the laws. Many others have been the climate and spirit - not the holy one - that have accompanied this profound amendment of the Constitution. But perhaps it could not have been otherwise, since never as in this case there has been such a full homogeneity between the content of this reform and the method by which it was wanted to be discussed and voted. After an iter in which every debate has been dampened and contingency, at the price of heavy forcings in the procedures, without any request from the opposition has been accepted, a revision of the Constitution is being approved which will mark the transition from parliamentary democracy to oligarchy, as Zagrebelsky rightly said in his recent interview. Because that's what this is about. It is useless now, at this point, to hide behind hypocritical formulas. The Boschi law - and the Minister will be proud of it, perhaps - combined with Italicum will deliver all the powers into the hands of the Executive and, in particular, those of the Prime Minister and leader of the relatively stronger party: a real overthrow of the pyramid. It is a path that this Government has taken from the beginning, and on which it goes more and more every day. Let's think about the latest events. Under the pretext of freeing RAI from parties, the public radio and television service has just been placed under the direct control of the Executive. For the leadership of a very delicate sector such as the cybersecurity of Palazzo Chigi, the name of the wedding witness and intimate friend of the President of the Council has been circulating for days, without anyone denying it. This, which you call constitutional reform, was not born in Parliament and Parliament. It was decided and then imposed by the government, with a simple and brutal objective: to give much more power to the power and finally take it away from the citizens and their parliamentary representation. Behind your easy propaganda there is actually only this. The ongoing attempt to transform the referendum into a real plebiscite on the person of Renzi is also a way to strip citizens, voters, people, their power and their rights. What else is the point of this twist, except to prevent voters from deciding, in full consciousness and with all the necessary information, if they really want to bury parliamentary democracy in order to replace it with man's formula only under command? It is not true that only Part II of the Constitution is being amended without affecting the first, the fundamental principles. The truth is opposite. This reform has a profound impact on Part I of the Constitution because, after having relegated Parliament in ancillary function to the Executive, it also exonerates the people of its sovereignty, guaranteed by Article 1 of our Charter, in conjunction with Italicum and other so-called reforms, from school to jobs act, RAI, to public administration, which aim to demolish and delete constitutionally protected rights. The result of the reform and electoral law, aggravated by the system of ballot, which will be able to hand over the majority of the seats to a force that perhaps in the first round has barely reached 20%, will be a Chamber of Deputies in the hands of a single party or, better, the secretary of the party, as well as Premier, and in which at least 400 Members will in fact be appointed thanks to blocked lists and multi-candidates, and pluralism will be reduced to little more than tribal right. And, therefore, the House will also see its representativeness greatly weakened. The Senate, reduced in number and stripped of all its autonomous functions, will have an indeterminate and confused role and, however, certainly not able to be a point of rebalancing and control. One thing, however, is clear: he will no longer be elected by universal suffrage, and this conflicts with the powers that the Senate will still have on electoral laws and constitutional revision. The change introduced for the election of senators does not change this reality. On the contrary, what you have invented, with a reference to a law and to the word "conformity" will only be a further element of confusion, mess and delegitimacy in the eyes of citizens. A parliamentary majority, which will certainly correspond to a minority and perhaps a small minority of voters with rights, will be able to elect the President of the Republic alone, the constitutional judges, the Supreme Council of the judiciary. The system of weights and balances and the separation of powers, which is the very heart of democracy, will become a memory of the past. And so the great scraper will have smashed Montesquieu as well. The leader of the majority party and President of the Council, to whom those majority parliamentarians, largely chosen and appointed by him, will have to answer in everything, will be neither more nor less than the master of the Government, Parliament and the country. This extreme and definitive forcing has been incubated for years and meticulously prepared not only by you, but by the narration that has been made. It has placed itself on the Constitution, and not on the limits of the political classes that, for decades, have led the country, the responsibility of having restrained growth. Thus the mantra of governance and the Constitution to be modified is born. The lowest demagogy has been used, with the full complicity of a media system never before so docile and gracious, disguised as this handstroke with the cloak of the struggle against caste and the waste of politics. We would never have imagined that the Democratic Party would ultimately be guilty of dismantling the constitutional pact and, therefore, of the profound questioning of the Constitution itself. This reform has been smuggled as a necessary tool to cut policy costs. It's fake. It is only a smokescreen, stretched out to mask the true objective, which is to overthrow the balance of powers defined by the Constitution to the full and exclusive advantage of the executive power. It has been said that the Boschi bill is intended to simplify the legislative procedure. It's fake. The process of the laws will be much more complicated. There are about ten ways of passing a law. It is not true, as the same lying propaganda tells us every day and as the President-in-Office of the Council repeats all the time, that those who oppose this reform want to defend the status quo and are animated only by a corporate resistance to change. If we really wanted to intervene on the crisis of representation, on the profound crisis of the relationship between citizens and institutions, we would have had to do anything else. It would certainly have been necessary to intervene, but to strengthen our democracy and rebuild that broken relationship of trust. More democracy and no less democracy should have been guaranteed: exactly the opposite of this reform. You think of replacing the link between the people and institutions, between the people and their representations with the plebiscytic call, with a passive consent bought with a few tips, or conquered by a false propaganda hammering. But the reality, unfortunately for you, cares little about slogans and triumphal propaganda. You can hide the truth, but never too long. The new jobs you boast - we heard the whole repertoire today - are fake. They are only the result of passages to a certain type of contract. Economic recovery is almost non-existent. Institutional reforms are useless for the sake of a state that is more efficient and detrimental to the maintenance of our democracy. The people you are deceiving will soon ask you for the bill. We have already created the committees for the no referendum, whose first task will be to inform the Italians about the true nature of this reform, so that they know what they are called to choose from: on Italian democracy, and not on the ratings of appreciation of Matteo Renzi. But at the same time - I give you the announcement - the collections of signatures will be under way to promote referendums on school, jobs act, Italicum and we will be called to the referendum against the unholy choice of drills, to prevent all these reforms against work, public school and environmental devastation coming to fruition in a process of real substitution of the model of democracy, state and economic and social model outlined in our Constitution. The wind changes, dear Renzi and Boschi, and you and the Democratic Party will be responsible for finally questioning the values and principles of our Constitution born of the Resistance. The story - as Renzi said - will take care of you and, when history takes care of someone, I believe that it is only necessary to turn to the Holy Spirit that I invoked at the beginning. We Senators of SEL, The Other Europe and many other Senators of the Mixed Group, whom I thank for the work of the last two years, will vote no to this institutional reproach, to say no to the repeal of our Constitution. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senators Bignami, De Pin and Bocchino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u137	Before giving the floor to Senator Torrisi, I would like to inform the House that, for those who need to hold meetings or to raise their voices a lot, there are comfortable sofas outside.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u138	I call Mr Torrisi. TORRISI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, Ministers and ladies and gentlemen, the People's Area Group will vote in favour of the reform of Part II of the Constitution, in order to overcome the bicameralism of equality and the revision of Title V, in the latter and decisive decision by the Senate. It is a reform that Italy has been waiting for for more than thirty years, after the failure of countless reformist attempts that have followed each legislature, starting with the first bicameral Commission Bozzi in 1983. We have already paid very high costs for the failure to modernise our institutional system, dating back to an outdated historical period, reforms that other major democracies have carried out for some time. Faced with the challenges of international competition and globalisation, a new failure is a luxury that Italy absolutely cannot afford. There is a very close connection between the institutional system and the economy, between a seven-year recession that has put social cohesion in crisis, on the one hand, and the weakness of political institutions, on the other. As a constitutionalist like Mario Dogliani pointed out two years ago, with reference to the fundamental rights provided for in the first part of our Charter: It is fair to say that the first and second parts of the Constitution cannot be separated. But the first can only be implemented if the second works. Meuccio Ruini, in 1947 in this House, spoke the following words: We are certain that the Constitution will last for a long time and may never end, but it will always be completed and adapted to the needs of historical experience. None of us can forget the real institutional crisis that emerged dramatically following the 2013 parliamentary elections, when the legislature seemed unable to start, precisely because of the bicameralism of equality and two Chambers elected even by two different electoral bodies. There was no majority in both chambers; one could not form a government or elect the new President of the Republic. We were in an institutional impasse from which we came out only thanks to the re-election of President Napolitano and the formation of a Convergence Government, with the fundamental objective of finally achieving, in this legislature, the reforms of the Constitution and the electoral system, as well as the fundamental objective of getting the country out of the economic crisis. Here I should like to express special thanks to the senators of the New Right Centre and the People's Area because, if we can achieve this great result today, it is due to those senators and those Members who, in October 2013, saved the legislature and reforms, with a painful and courageous act together, and remained and remain faithful to that solemn commitment made by all those who paid real ovations to Napolitano's speech, in front of Parliament in common session. The reform is not the result of improvisation, but of a thirty-year confrontation of cultural, academic and political positions. Its general facility corresponds to the conclusions expressed by a large majority by the Reform Commission, established by the Led Government. And if the examination started with a text from the Government, it must be emphasized that there were many important changes made to that text, the result of a significant parliamentary work, especially by the Senate, starting with the rapporteurs Finocchiaro and, in the first phase, Calderoli. The Senators of the People's Area contributed significantly to this work, on many decisive aspects, proposing - for example - first the solution for the election of the Senators, which was then, in essence, adopted. It is a reform to which, at least at first reading, the Italian Parliamentary Group of Forza Italia has contributed, while today it is opposed and some of its members resort even to alarmist hyperboles on the democratic emergency, which the reform would lead, forgetting the coincidence between the content of the reform and the electoral programmes and the positions expressed, also in the parliamentary, since 1994. The Senate is the creator of the reform, but also its main object. Let me give another thanks to all the senators, because today we are bringing to completion a historical fact, which gives credit to this House which, after thirty years, puts an end to a paradox considered insurmountable: that of the reformer who must reform himself. The Senate completely changes its nature, role and functions, but it is not a dequalified House at all. It is, indeed, a Chamber that will play a fundamental role in the new structure of our bicameralism: first, to represent the territorial authorities and to be the place of connection between the regional legislators and the state legislature, in particular through the competition to national legislation, in order to put an end to that abnormal constitutional dispute between the State and the Regions, which the hasty and ill-conceived amendment of 2001 has determined, with serious damage to the legal certainty and the economy of the country. The Senate will, however, carry out other important functions of liaison with the European Union, of evaluating public policies, of verifying the implementation of the laws of the State and of appointing two constitutional judges. Only the House of Deputies, as the seat of national representation, will grant and revoke confidence to the Government, as in other European democracies, thus putting an end to our equal bicameralism, which has so much harmed not only the stability and effectiveness of government action, but also the authority and centrality of the seat of popular sovereignty. The simplification and simplification of the legislative procedure, with certain times for the approval of the laws, are aimed at achieving a "governing democracy" that finally overcomes the inability of decision making that has long plagued the political-institutional system and that can endanger the functioning of democracy. It will be strengthened and made more effective the action of government, but also the confrontation and the parliamentary dialectic, since the reform overall maintains the form of parliamentary government. And also the system of guarantees is assured, thanks to the modification of several articles of the Charter, which provide for strong limits to the decree of urgency, the statute of oppositions, the preventive recourse of constitutional legitimacy of the electoral laws of Chamber and Senate, the quorum of the three fifths for the election of the President of the Republic after the third ballot, the guarantee of examination of the proposals of law of popular initiative, the lowering of the quorum of validity of the repealing referendum. Complementing the reform of bicameralism is the revision of Title V of the Constitution, which remedy - as already pointed out - the failures caused by the sudden amendment of 2001. Finally, the reduction in the costs of politics must not be overlooked, not only by reducing the number of senators, but also by limiting the expenditure of the Regional Councils, by abolishing the CNEL and the Provinces. We defend this reform not for partisan calculations, but in the interests of the country. That is why, when the majority that supported the reform was two-thirds larger, we first proposed that the reform should be subject to vote by voters through the referendum, for which many Members of the People's Area have already joined the yes committee promoted by Mr Adornato. On this point I address myself openly and directly to the President-in-Office of the Council and Mrs Boschi, as Mr Lupi has already done in the House. Our yes is to reform, to its content, to the benefits that it can bring to Italy and certainly not to a plebiscite about a person and his political action. With all the consideration and esteem of the person and his abilities, do not make the mistake of a personalization of the referendum, to which they push, not by chance, precisely those who fight for the no. The reform has been proposed and followed with great determination by the Government because - as I have already mentioned - it is the main objective, the same reason to be of the legislature. However, it is not just the legislature that is at stake; the fate of our institutions and their ability to respond to the needs of the country are at stake. The future of Italy is at stake. We are conducting a campaign for yes to the inclusive referendum, we are working on the broadest possible front, involving parliamentarians, representatives of civil society and simple citizens. A Constitution is not just a legal text, it is a legislative act. It is, first of all, a political and historical act. We change the Constitution if there is the historical need to do so and we believe, and believe, that that necessity exists, because we need to close the eternal institutional transition in our country as an instrument to relaunch Italy. We are beginning to have difficult years behind us because of a terrible economic crisis, the most serious since the post-war period; a crisis that has impoverished and weakened our country, which has created a social divide and increased inequalities among citizens. Therefore, as never before, politics today has to respond to these issues and it is by acting that a solution is found, because the real risk would be to do nothing. The President of the Republic, Sergio Mattarella, recently hoped that the reforms will come to an end in this legislature, since the sense of incompleteness would risk producing further uncertainties and conflicts, as well as nourishing mistrust. The reform that we approve today is the result of the work of a majority, of politically autonomous but complementary forces in this delicate and fundamental phase of our country's life, which have a single denominator: the reformative will. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by recalling what Mr Vincenzo Cuoco wrote about the fact that there are no perfect constitutions: The Constitution is like a dress: if you're a hunchback, the dress that's good for you is a dress that more or less manages to handle or hide the hump that you have and it's not good for another but it's good for you only. The reform we are discussing is perhaps not the ideal one, but it is the best that can be done in this Parliament today. Therefore, and I conclude, Madam President, I believe that we are going to vote for a complex and completed reform text, which closes the troubled season of the second Republic and which intends to project a stronger country in the future, with stronger institutions, with stronger economic bases, with greater credibility in Europe and, therefore, with a greater chance of counting - as is right - in Europe and beyond. The People's Area Group, consistent with the responsibility it has assumed, contributing first to the birth of the Led Government and then to that of the Renzi Government, supports and shares this constitutional reform. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senator Santini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u141	MORRA (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, frankly, I am sorry that the President of the Council, Matteo Renzi, is not here. I am sorry because at least, since he raised the bar, he could have raised the tone of the speech, since today he himself mentioned Max Weber, Emmanuel Mounier and Jacques Maritain. Sure, compared to the Jalisse quotes with which he made his debut in February 2014, after two years he learned something [[Applause from the M5S and CoR groups.]] Unfortunately, however, it is necessary not only to mention Mounier, Maritain, Weber and perhaps even some others, but also to read, meditate and elaborate them. Therefore I remember, in particular to Senator Corsini who, being Brescian, is certainly aware of this tradition - Maritain was translated in Italy above all by Montini's will - that a decisive work of Maritain was "Distinguishing to unite." Degrees of knowledge. In this work of not easy reading one was invited to precision because gnoseologically one must tell the truth if one wants to do justice. It is the task of a President-in-Office of the Council to educate himself, as well as his own ministers, in justice first. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Well: I took notes because philologically you always have to clash with reality. The notes, together with the shorthand report, tell us that Matteo Renzi, as usual, gives the cards by cheating because it is he who gives the numbers, it is he who says that in 2014, in February, when he became President of the Council - and we still wait for a debate in the Assembly for that crisis, curse - it is he who remembered that unemployment was over 13 percent; it is a shame that it is a false fact. And it is he who has always remembered that youth unemployment, the one that we should all care about, was well above 46 percent. Too bad it's a fake fact, too. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And then it's easy to build boldly convincing speeches. The sophists already did, and maybe someone who read Plato learned these things from the books, being there, and not quoting the television series. You, perhaps, will now have gone to see yourself "House of cards" to learn some other moves. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] And this explains why - and it makes me a species that on my right but also on my left there are proud people who have read those books, who have this culture and should therefore have a whisper of conscience - after quoting those names, Matteo Renzi, who continues to snort false data (which after if you want I will give you) citing both indirectly Fukuyama and the vetocracy, it comes out with words that a President of the Council should never say. Assuming that a fundamental and decisive operation is being carried out such as that of the alleged suppression of the Senate, just as supposedly the Provinces have been suppressed, Matteo Renzi lists the results that this Executive led by him would bring home. Well, among them, he says: "We brought home the job reform, no one believed it yet we succeeded." I thank him because at least he has spoken in Italian for one who is accustomed to slang and "shish" at least has recovered a little of healthy linguistic pride. Then Matteo Renzi says: "Then we also eliminated taxes judged wrongly or rightly unbearable." Sorry, probably any taxpayer might consider their taxation to be some sort of harassment, then it doesn't matter if it's wrong or right. Again, Matthew Renzi demonstrates his intellectual and moral rigour because taxes are not wrongly or rightly removed because they are considered unbearable. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have a Constitution that tells us that taxation must be progressive and this has been a conquest of those who now approve of a reversal of those principles, wrongly or rightly. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Like a government doesn't have to be guided by reason. From what should be made orient: perhaps from Jim Messina, that famous specialist of political communication who maybe will accompany him home when Matteo Renzi, as he told us, will have to go to convince the Italians for the referendum confirmation. Because we have arrived at this, because those who do not have the pulse of the situation, those who do not have the control of what is felt by people, by citizens, by workers, by the unemployed, by all those who have been thinking for too long about emigration as the only way out of this unbearable situation, well, those who do not have that relationship can also think of spending a bunch of money to get a professional American political communication. And why, Madam President? I am sorry that Mr Boschi is not there too; perhaps the words of truth are not pleasing. A little while ago President Renzi discettavo inviting to distinguish personalization from personalism. But who said I'm leaving if the referendum goes wrong? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Did anyone else say that or did Matteo Renzi say that? It is for this reason to want to crush on his person that, thanks to the mythopoiesis, thanks to Filippo Sensi and to the matte of communicators, becomes more and more a myth, capable of doing something incredible. Always Matthew Renzi reiterated how others do not know the amazement, they do not know what the wonder is; for me and for all of us the amazement will be to be able to guarantee an income of citizenship, because of this the Italians need and not constitutional reforms that are simply a diversion. For me, it is amazement to know that some of the children who were elected to the Sicilian Regional Assembly, giving up part of their allowance, yesterday, bought the property for which a worker committed suicide last year, because he could not pay the mortgage: for 10,000 euros a person is no longer there. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] These things we do, they're not the impossible! It is what a political class, a responsible ruling class must feel the duty to do. Only this ruling class is fugitive. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I want to say a few more things, because it's almost there. We are at the dawn of particularly significant and perhaps negative moments for our country; not only is there an authoritarian turning point marked by centralization, but there is, for example, an irresponsible openness to globalisation. I still have not heard from Matteo Renzi any words about China's demand for full membership of the World Trade Organisation, as if this were irrelevant to the world's second manufacturing economy. 7.40 p.m. (Following Morra). Yet Matteo Renzi latita. This is democracy, not indifference. Democracy means listening to and respecting minorities and oppositions. Constitutional reforms that go to compress the spaces of debate, that go to compress the rights of those who think differently, to me remind so much something that on the history books - he went to study Matteo Renzi - has already happened in this country. I therefore call on all Italian citizens, including those in this House who will be obliged, for reasons that are unspeakable, to vote in a certain way, to refer to any conscience, if they have it, and above all to the thought of who will come. In fact, as we learn from "Il Sole 24 ore" (24 hours), the Italy that starts again is no longer divided for the 150,000 Italians who only in 2015 had to abandon our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Matteo Renzi went to apologize to all these of our boys, who we have to study, graduate and specialize, then condemning them to emigration. Please, someone in the government will tell the President of the Council. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u144	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at last, in the substantial disinterest of the country, which warns of other more urgent priorities, the process of reform in the Senate comes to an end. We are talking about a reform on which only one in three Italians, according to a recent RAI survey, think they have clear ideas. It is a pity that this would have ended what could have been the great reform of the institutions, the historic opportunity to really change Italy, to make our democracy freer, more European, more efficient. It should have been an important debate and it has been reduced in this last step to a series of speeches in the middle of the night, due to the need to cage up the whole majority on the vote on the reform before the nominations in the Commissions. It was the great opportunity to demonstrate to the citizens, increasingly discouraged and disappointed, that politics is capable of self-generating, self-forming, of truly representing Italians. It could have been the great response to the widespread abstentionism, to the anti-politics of the protest. We had given our willingness for this great project. As my friend Quagliariello recalled yesterday, we really believed that it was possible to link legal and constitutional cultures that had been opposed for decades; that it was really time to unite the country to write together those new rules that Italy had and desperately needs. However, we had to take note that soon that great project turned out to be what it was: a small design of power functional only to the Democratic Party. A constitutional reform that eliminates the electivity of the Senate, an electoral law that will allow only one party to govern, even representing only 20% of the Italians; a transformation of the Provinces into second level institutions managed by the local bureaucracy and a reform of the RAI that supplies the public service firmly in the hands of the Government. We are at the paradox for which the consent of one in five Italians can suffice to have in hand all the power of our country. A step back on the path of democracy, indisputably; just as a step back is to pretend to abolish a constitutional body, the Senate, to abolish in truth only the right of Italian citizens to choose their own senators. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] You know that too: the reform you are approving is a dress that you have sewed to measure that does not like and does not interest the Italians. In fact, you are no longer talking about the substance of the reform, except in this House, for this last formality, about final approval. If I lose the referendum on constitutional reforms, I stop making politics, said the President of the Council in recent days, and President Renzi's response today has only confirmed this anticipation. Then he went to hell to explain that with this phrase he was not looking for the plebiscite. Call it whatever you want, but what President Renzi has actually launched is a referendum on himself, a request for approval regardless of content and merit. So let's talk about this government, about the work of this Prime Minister. I would urge him first of all not to get too much illusions: the honeymoon with the country is over. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] The Italians have taken note of the reality because they are living on their skin the consequences of what has been up to now your government action. They know that the many words have hardly ever been followed, and that the few facts have been far from promises, expectations and needs. Italians know that you have condemned our country to international irrelevance: on the tragedy of security, the fight against terrorism, the control of migratory flows, the opposition to Islamic religious fundamentalism, you do not have a clear and defined line. Italy is distinguished by its marginality and its inability to determine and favour credible solutions. You have pursued the direction of European foreign policy at all costs, and this has not led to any results for Italy. In fact, today you, Government, are in controversy with the same Mogherini that you so tenaciously wanted. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] And how can you interpret Juncker's words last Friday? Juncker said: I believe that the Italian Prime Minister is wrong to vile the Commission at every opportunity. I don't know why he does that. That insinuation, almost an insult, so that the European Union does not find interlocutors in Rome what is but a further demonstration of how little our Government and our Prime Minister are considered in Europe? Italians have learned on their skin to distinguish promises and announcements from facts. There is no point in announcing 500,000 new permanent contracts if this does not mean that unemployment has fallen. There is no point in announcing tax reductions if the level of overall taxation remains unchanged or continues to grow. It's useless that you fill your mouth with the spending review, which you haven't even started, so much so that the public debt continues to rise. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Finally, it is completely useless and eager to shout at the conspiracy for the banking crisis that is overwhelming us. Of course, with our history we will certainly not deny the possibility that a financial and speculative attack is taking place on our country. But there's definitely more. The insignificance and lack of courage in managing the bankruptcy of the four banks has fueled the lack of confidence of accountants and investors. Haste, superficiality, promises not followed by facts, unpreparedness. But there's more. There is a bad feeling that Prime Minister Renzi is isolating himself from the country and even from his own party and that he has closed himself in a bunker from which sudden moves often desperate, discussed and prepared with no one, except the few faithful who surround him, without comparison with the leadership of his party, nor much less with the Parliament or with the other political forces. This feeling becomes stronger every day and is confirmed by what we hope are only rumors about the appointment of Marco Carrai. It would be very serious and dangerous if the cybernetic security of our country were placed in the hands of a private citizen. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I do not discuss the person, who may also have extraordinary competences, but - I repeat - he remains a private citizen and is not a servant of the State, in his highest sense. At a time when the analysis of the enormous amount of data that travels on the network can be decisive in the fight against terrorism, it is incomprehensible how this responsibility is entrusted to a private entrepreneur, moreover in a clear conflict of interests, and is not reserved for the competent structures of the State. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Moreover, indiscretions have long assumed the will of the President of the Council to completely redesign the structure of the security summits of our country, imagining the constitution of a new figure, on the basis of the American one, of the National Security Councillor: a single person who would group within himself the functions of the military adviser of the President of the Council (position on the other side vacant for a long time), of the diplomatic adviser, soon out (it seems to me that perhaps tonight the Council of Ministers will appoint a new adviser) and of the director of the DIS. The absence of a military adviser alongside the President of the Council in the Libyan, Syrian and Afghan crisis and with the consequent evolution of the terrorist threat, seems to be the result of a huge superficiality or a precise design. In order to revolutionize the whole area of national security, we need a law, which must pass from Parliament and with the opinion of the Parliamentary Committee for the security of the Republic, and it is unacceptable - we repeat this on this occasion - that this body does not see today the presence of a representative of the major opposition party. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Another clue to this bunker syndrome is the hasty and sudden replacement of Ambassador Sannino with Deputy Minister Calenda, as representative of our country in Europe. I do not want to go into the matter of the choices, but I would like to know if President Renzi realizes that he is opening a conflict with the entire diplomatic corps of Farnesina. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] This is the reality, dear Undersecretary of the Widow. You can't get Italy back on its own. And you can't succeed with these reforms, with unfounded statements that only serve to rip a title out of the newspapers, such as the one about public employees who are idle to be fired in forty-eight hours. And in fact Italy does not start again, despite the international conditions have never been so favorable for many years. Price of barrel at historical minima, depreciated euro, quantitative easing obtained by Mario Draghi: three formidable levers for the development that the rest of Europe has grasped, while Italy is wasting them. Would you like a referendum on your person, President of the Council? There are no plebiscites in democracy about governments and prime ministers, and you are introducing another dangerous force on this occasion too. However, we are ready to take up the challenge. Today in this House we can only strongly reiterate our conviction, but today in the country our referendary battle begins. A few hours ago, together with other opposition groups, we presented the No Committees to the press. We are convinced that we have a majority in the country and will demonstrate it on the evening of the referendum result. Good luck, Renzi Government. Good luck, President Renzi. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u147	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking my Group, which allows me this explanation of vote to conclude a commitment which has certainly been the hardest and most difficult one, but also the most exciting of a long (in the opinion of some colleagues, too long) parliamentary experience that will end with this parliamentary term. I would like to begin with the words spoken by Meuccio Ruini on 22 December 1947, at the last sitting of the constituent Assembly. On that occasion, Meuccio Ruini, on the one hand, expressed the certainty that the Constitution would last for a long time. "Perhaps it will never end," he said. On the other hand, he said that he would adapt to changing times and experience; on the other hand, giving an overall assessment of this work, he gave a far from triumphalistic judgment. While he emphasized the greatness (so I would like to define it) and the success of the first part of the Constitution, he recognized that the second had presented serious difficulties and that they had not solved all the institutional problems: for example, for the composition of the two Chambers and the electoral system, which was put back to ordinary law. In short, an explicit indication of what already appeared to have failed in the Constitution, already at the solemn moment of its approval. Nor could it be otherwise. And today President Casini reminded us of that. If we contextualize that debate, let us remember that we were on the eve of the first elections and remember not only the tension between the two great mass parties, Christian Democracy and the Communist Party, but the fact that they alluded to a truly alternative political, cultural and social system. And each of the two parties, of almost similar consistency, feared that in the successive elections, the first free elections of the Republic, one force could prevail over the other. It was thus that, after a debate that has not been mentioned in this House today, but not even during the debate these days, if not very few interventions, choosing between very different solutions and changing each political party and each exponent even their original position (the DC started from a regionalist approach while the PCI started from a monocameralist approach), it came to a solution that was that of a perfect bicameralism: two Chambers that had the same functions, both linked by a trusted relationship to the Government, but elected with different electoral systems and with different active and passive electorate. What was introduced into the order was an element of blockage, an element of farraginosity, an attempt to prevent the victory of a part from being a complete victory. This theme, already explained in the final report of 22 December 1947, is continuously taken up by the same constituents in the following years, and repeatedly. We have an extraordinary testimony in the reconstruction of that conversation between Elijah and Scoppola, on the one hand, and Dossetti and Lazzati on the other, which is from 1984, but which was published years later. As early as 1951, Dossetti returned to this question and, speaking of the constitutional system, said: It has been structurally arranged on the premise of a mutual counterweight and therefore of a complex, slow and rare operation, such as that of a State that had nothing to do but few and infrequent acts both regulatory and executive, because it does not have to carry out an action of mediation (...) and much less a continuous action of reformation, of propulsion of the social body. Basically, this theme is then at the centre, for example, of Mortati's reflections (of those delivered between 1972 and 1974), which, speaking of bicameralism, says: It is a problem to which it cannot be too late to give a solution. And if we trace the republican history of this issue, which has been absent from the debate in this House and which is the first reason why this reform is being done, we continue to discuss in the sixty-seven, sixty-eight, seventy years of the Republic, trying to remedy it with different instruments, the first already in the fifties is the electoral law with the majority prize. And if it is abandoned it is not only because of the reactions that led to the law fraud - many colleagues have remembered it - but also because the political strategy changes, and the strengthening of the government by Christian Democracy is instead pursued with a proportional system that can multiply the political subjects and alliances. But the problem is always the same and it is that of a defect in the Parliament-majority-Government circuit that makes governments weak, that makes governments unable to assume that function of propulsion of the overall system of the country that we now record with such tragic evidence, also because the context has changed and the strength and competitiveness of our national system needs a further push. Moreover, in the same attempt to remedy that original defect, we can refer to attempts to strengthen, for example, the President of the Republic, on which constitutionalists and politicians were busy, or the use of semi-presidency, which has been a constant in the Italian debate since the 1970s. Because the point - a colleague or colleague of the 5 Star chin recalled it yesterday - was, as Zagrebelsky identified, to define a new point of balance between inconclusion and force, I repeat between inconclusion and force. And that is exactly what we are trying to do, finally, after so many decades of doing: to find a new point of balance. But here we have spoken of something else, in a confusion - look, colleagues - which, in my opinion, represents a highly explosive mixture in a country that has the characteristics that Senator Tronti has spoken about today and that sees this relationship between citizens and politics so difficult, harsh, sometimes polluted. I understand that the 5 Star Movement has done and makes the assembly its identity figure, but I think that perhaps because of its youth this movement also needs to purify a little and better define its own political culture. Because I have heard incredible things in this House: on the one hand this exaltation of representativeness and on the other hand the mortification of some representations. I am thinking of what has been said about the directly elected regional councillors and, in general, about the caste of the elected, with judgments that are both summing up and very often unjust. On the one hand, the legitimacy of this Government and this President-in-Office of the Council, who has never been elected (as if the current Constitution required this, but does not require it at all) has been contested; on the other hand, however, there has been a damnation against the forms of premiered. On the one hand, it has been argued that costs have been abolished throughout the entire phase of the electoral campaign that led to the electoral affirmation of the 5 Star Movement, on the other hand today it is claimed that this cost abolition has mortified representation. I frankly believe that we should think with greater coldness and return to the questions that few interventions today - I am referring to the interventions of Senator Fornaro, Senator Chiti and Senator Casini - have tried to focus. But what actually works, it seemed to me, in this debate is exactly the prevention that inspired the constituents, that worked during the drafting of the Constitution and that ultimately prevailed; I am referring to the temptation to perpetuate the weakness of our system. Frankly - as I have said many times in this House - I have never been convinced, during this long parliamentary debate, not even the idea that a Senate elected directly, without relations with regional institutions, could be a counterweight, a Senate of guarantees. This is certainly an attractive prospect, but it is absolutely eager to think that 95 people directly elected (and by proportional method), but not narrowed by a trust bond, can be a counterweight. Compared to what? Compared to a House in which the bond of majority and the weight of the majority can allow to face the many issues and the many challenges of a ruling democracy - I want to use this very term - that our country needs. Inexplicable is the position of the colleagues of Forza Italia. I appreciated the elusive elegance with which Senator Romani made his explanation of vote today and I must say that I was fascinated by the rutilant well-alternism of the intervention of Senator Gasparri, who spoke about everything except constitutional reform. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] That is the best text possible, ladies and gentlemen. Probably each of us and myself - as President Renzi said today - have exercised some critical activity on the original approach of the text of the government bill. It is the best fruit of the best possible transaction and therefore is the best law possible. I do not think it is necessary here to explain its content to you (we have done so many times in this House), nor do I think it is worth stressing the historical importance of this moment for me. But I want to say one thing, even to those who have not voted for this text and will not vote for it and to those who voted for it and will not vote for it tonight. I appreciated a reference made yesterday by Mr Mussini, who said that institutional forms cannot be merely forms. The Greeks said that democracy is a practice. Well, I think that's the way it is. If we approve this text, if the House will approve it again, if the referendum will confirm it, it will be up to each of us, majority and opposition, political ruling class of this country, to make it live and make it live to the best of the potential that this Senate will have, in its power of representation of the territorial institutions and their weight... Stop! [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u148	Quiet, let me finish, please. Time is up to me, just as I have given others the opportunity to continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u149	[[Comments from LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] Please, Senator Finocchiaro, finish. FINOCCHIAR (PD). ...in its capacity, so underestimated, to be a place in which the integration of the country, its different souls and its different territories can find representation, authority, role, word, voice, in decisions, in its extraordinary potential to be a powerful factor of European integration. This is the Senate we're delivering, if that's how we're gonna make it live. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senators Romani Maurizio, Bencini, Bondi and Repetti. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u150	I would remind you that in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Constitution, an absolute majority of the members of the Senate is required to vote on a constitutional bill at second reading. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I call for a simultaneous vote on the draft Constitutional Act No. 1429-D as a whole. (The vote was followed). (Some Senators from the Group [[LN-Aut display signs bearing the inscription "With the]] referendum Renzi at home. I'm begging the assistants to step in and remove the cartels. I declare the result of the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot: [[Senators present 294 Senators voting 293 Majority 161 Favorable 180 Contrari 112 Absent 1]] The Senate approves in second resolution with a majority of its members. (See Annex B). [[Live and sustained applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u151	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-563.ana.u152	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 21 January, in two public sessions, the first at 9 a.m. and the second at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.11 a.m.
