ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 21 April.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on Document LVII, No 4. The rapporteur, Senator Santini, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the 2016 Economic and Financial Document, in line with the legal forecasts, illustrates the macroeconomic performance of the country, traces, from a medium to long-term perspective, the commitments on the consolidation of public finances and defines the guidelines, on the public policy side, for the respect of the European Stability and Growth Pact. It also sets out how and how Italy intends to achieve structural consolidation of public finances and pursue the objectives of growth, employment, innovation, education, social integration, energy and environmental sustainability defined within the European Union. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I ask colleagues to reduce the noise, because the noise produced is incompatible with the level of Senator Santini's voice. Please continue, Senator, let's see if it's easier now. Mr Santini, rapporteur. In particular, the first section of the document sets out the framework for the Stability Programme, which contains all the elements and information required by the European Union regulations and in particular the new Code of Conduct on the implementation of the Stability and Growth Pact, with specific reference to the economic policy objectives to be achieved in order to accelerate the reduction of public debt. The second section sets out the general rules on the evolution of government expenditure, in line with the need, highlighted at European level, to identify effective ways of monitoring the development of public expenditure. Finally, the third section includes the National Reform Programme (NRP) scheme, which, in line with the Stability Programme, sets out the actions to be taken to achieve the national growth, productivity, employment and sustainability targets set out in the new Europe 2020 Strategy. An additional set of information contained in the appendices is set out in the Annex to the Document. Overall, the DEF 2016 shows a macroeconomic and public finance situation tending to be positive both with regard to the growth prospects of our economic system and with regard to the performance of public finances, while not hiding the difficulties emerging from the international context. After having recorded an increase of 0.8% in 2015, the DEF estimates for 2016 a planned growth of GDP of 1.2 percent, which in the following years increases, due to government policies, by 1.4% in 2017, by 1.5% in 2018, and by 1.4% in 2019. This will also have a positive impact on the labour market and the unemployment rate is expected to fall to 10.6 per cent. The number of employees and the amount of hours worked would increase throughout the reference period and productivity, accompanied by moderate wage growth, would be reflected in a still limited trend in unit labour costs. With regard to contributions to GDP growth, the Government, for the current and subsequent years, expects a good recovery in domestic demand which, given the development of stocks and exports, alone should guarantee the growth trend to our economy at an average level of 1.4% (obviously considering the constancy of exports). The overall figure is positive, especially when compared with the emerging situation of recent years with regard to public finance developments, and shows for the reference period a decreasing trend in deficit and interest expenditure and an encouraging growth in the primary surplus, demonstrating that fiscal stabilisation measures are starting to produce the expected results. In the new policy scenario, the Government expects the government's net debt to be reduced from 2.3% in 2016 to 1.8% of GDP in 2017 and 0.9% in 2018, thus bringing the balance in slight surplus in 2019 (0.1% of GDP). Among the most significant data is the development of structural debt, which, although deteriorating in 2016 compared to the forecasts of the previous DEF (0.7 percentage points compared to 2015), shows a virtuous path in the reference period. For the years following 2016, net structural debt would improve from -1,2 in 2016 to -1,1 percent of GDP in 2017, to -0,8% in 2018. This would substantially ensure the achievement of Italy's medium-term objective (MTO) in 2019, when the balance is forecast to be -0.2%. The temporary deviation from the path towards the medium-term objective compared to the previous forecasts is therefore due to the need to proceed quickly, with an organic strategy, to the implementation of the measures for growth, capable of affecting in the medium term the potential for growth of GDP and to improve the sustainability of public finances. For these reasons, the Government has prepared a Report to Parliament, which will be submitted for parliamentary approval. The Report, as already mentioned in the opening, contains the update of the new policy objectives of public finance, the indication of the duration and the measure of the deviation, as well as the related return plan, taking into account the duration and gravity of the events to be faced, establishing a path of reduction of the net debt more gradual than that programmed in the Update Note 2015, which ensures however the substantial achievement of the medium-term objective in 2019. Among the other positive figures for public finance are those relating to the development of the primary balance and interest expenditure, which confirm the virtuous path towards the consolidation of public finances. Finally, with regard to the debt-to-GDP reduction path, after further growth in 2015 up to 132.7 percent of GDP, from 2016 the downward phase begins, with a first reduction of 0.3 percentage points compared to the previous year, to reach the level of 123.8 percent in the end year of the forecast period, with an overall reduction of about 9 percentage points over the same period. In the second section of the DEF, among others, the trend forecasts for general government economic accounts are given. Total government revenue relative to GDP declined from 47.9 per cent in 2015 to 47.1 per cent in 2019. Total expenditure also shows in the forecasts a trend path of constant decrease, from 50.5 percent in 2015 to 46.7 percent in 2019. In 2016, expenditure decreased by 0.9 percentage points, by an additional 1.2 percentage points in 2017 and by a further 0.9 percentage points in 2018. The tax burden, always according to these forecasts, will decrease in the reference period by 0.6 per cent, from 43.5 per cent in 2015 to 42.9 per cent in 2019, reaching the minimum level of 42.7 per cent in 2017. On the expenditure side, current expenditure net of interest in relation to GDP, after the increases recorded in the years 2013, 2014 and 2015, is expected to decline steadily on the forecast horizon, to reach 39.9% of GDP in 2019. Interest expenditure as a percentage of GDP is expected to decline, falling from 4.2 percent in 2015. It will reduce by 0.2 points in 2016 and by an additional 0.2 percentage points for each of the following two years to reach 3.5% of GDP in 2019. The reduction in capital expenditure between 2015 and 2019 is -0.8 percentage points of GDP and is, however, smaller than that expected for current expenditure net of interest; a process destined to continue along the path of fiscal consolidation, in order to create a public finance situation that can best support economic development and growth. The public sector needs are constantly improving to reach a positive value of €652 million in 2019. The 2016 estimates indicate a public sector requirement of EUR 52,398 million (3.1 per cent of GDP), in line with the 2015 balance sheet. The National Reform Programme (NRP) contained in the third section of the DEF sets out, in line with the Stability Programme, the actions to be taken to achieve the national objectives of growth, productivity, employment and sustainability as outlined and agreed at European level. Also in relation to the recommendations of the European Union in July 2015, the PNR carries out a reconnaissance of the measures taken and in itinerant, as well as of the new interventions that the Government intends to carry out. The main areas of interest of the PNR relate in particular to competitiveness and investment for growth, with important measures such as the use of structural funds in the Mezzogiorno with masterplan, institutional reforms, public administration and simplifications, the labour market and social policies, justice reform, banking and finance for growth, privatisation, competition policies, education and research, the removal of territorial imbalances, the fight against poverty, taxation and fiscal reform. The DEF 2016 therefore sets out the main economic policy objectives deemed necessary to accompany this growth process. Among these, there are the actions envisaged in the DEF to support the economic recovery, the reduction of the tax levy, the measures to channel the relationship between the public debt and the gross domestic product on a reduction path, acting above all on the denominator of the same relationship, i.e. growth, thus consolidating the confidence of the markets in order to promote the recovery of consumption and investment and to allow a decisive recovery of production and employment in the next period. Among the most qualifying points of the 2016 Economy and Finance Document, the proposal to discourage the activation of safeguard clauses for 2016, which would have the effect of increasing the levy on citizens and businesses, is highlighted. This decision represents an important step towards a significant reduction in the tax burden under the trend framework. Another qualifying point of the 2016 Document of Economics and Finance, considered necessary to facilitate the process of economic recovery, is represented by the use of the flexibility of public finance that, together with the total investment in program, represents a fundamental junction in order to significantly increase the competitive capacities of the Country. Italy, therefore, is preparing to send to Europe a complete Economic and Financial Programming Document, with a well-defined National Reform Programme, from which to derive the priority guidelines of our virtuous path of growth and consolidation of public accounts, with an agenda of innovative interventions - well detectable in the PNR - of internal economic policy and a responsible fiscal policy, attentive to the balance of public accounts, which ensures the confidence of the markets thanks to sound public finances, and able to increase competitiveness and increase the potential for growth in the long term. However, it is quite clear, however, that without a change of pace even in Europe, the engagement of economic recovery becomes more complicated for our country. In this process, therefore, action must also be taken at European level to set and focus Europe's attention on these issues, namely growth, and to open up new and more room for manoeuvre in order to promote sustained, lasting economic growth and to keep pace with the development of the most developed countries. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u10	I remember that the Annex to the 2016 Economy and Finance Document brings the Report pursuant to article 6, paragraph 5, of law n. 243 of 2012, which requires the authorisation to update the return plan towards the medium-term objective. Pursuant to Article 6, paragraphs 3 and 5, the resolution by which each Chamber authorizes the updating of the return plan shall be adopted by an absolute majority of the respective members. Therefore, the examination of the Document will end with the approval of two separate acts of direction: the first relating to the Report referred to in article 6, paragraph 5, of Law n. 243 of 2012, to be voted by an absolute majority; the second relating to the Finance Economy Document, to be voted by a simple majority. Motions for resolutions to both documents will have to be tabled before the end of the debate. I would remind you that the timing of the debate has been divided between the groups as set out in the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I begin with the numbers of seizures and confiscs. Within a couple of years, billions of euros were seized and confiscated. Only to a forerunner of Matteo Messina Denaro, Vito Nicastro, 43 companies that operate in clean energy have been definitively confiscated, worth 1.3 billion euros; only on Rome and its surroundings, the prosecutor of the Republic Pignatone calculates a mafia heritage around 1.5 billion between assets and money seized and being confiscated. In Piombino, Tuscany, at the end of March, a bar and 260,000 euros were seized on a bank account registered to a camorrist. These are few and scattered examples of a dizzying account. Perhaps today that we are talking about DEF and the economy, those who pretend that legality is not an economic problem today will understand it. Mafia and corruption are an economic problem. Isaiah Sales, in his recent book "Storia dell'Italia mafiosa" (History of Mafia Italy), says that: "A crime is mafia if it reinvests capital, accumulated with the use of violence, in the legal economy, but never definitively leave illegal business even when it has put solid roots in the lawful economy and is not limited only to predatory activities." This explains why in the third section of the DEF, on page 486, there is a paragraph dedicated to combating corruption and economic crime, to reforming the prescription of crimes and to the enhancement of property confiscated from organized crime. It is, for the truth, the passages a little hasty, too synthetic. They denote the awareness of the theme, but not the necessary conviction in dealing with it. In fact, we can no longer tolerate the data on the prescription: only in 2013 68,107 proceedings were deleted in front of the GIP, 20,685 in first instance, 21,521 in appeal. There is not only the theme of impunity for those who commit crimes; there is also the waste of public money for a justice that turns empty, not because it is idle, but because of a law called Cirielli. Professor Lucio Picci, professor of economics at the University of Bologna, a scholar of corruption and member of the Statistical Commission of the Presidency of the Council, believes that the cost of corruption is far greater than the erarial damage caused by bribes and difficult to quantify accurately. However, on the "Il Sole 24 Ore" it was estimated: using as a measure of corruption an index based on the perception of the phenomenon and an assessment of its overall economic damage obtained by means of econometric techniques, the cost of the differential between costs of corruption in Germany and Italy is about 585 billion per year. If these funds were redistributed to the Italians, their per capita income would not only increase by 10,607 euros per year, but would exceed that of the Germans by about 1,000 euros. On the same positions Alberto Vannucci, an ordinary of politics science, recently intervened at an important conference in my city (Desio) and heard in Milan a few days ago by the Anti-Mafia Committee of Inquiry. You see, colleagues, in the same DEF there is an interesting part dedicated to culture, research and education. It is said, in essence, that in order to support productivity in the medium and long term it is necessary, among other things, to continue to develop human capital which includes improving education, the development of technological research, the promotion of science and culture, making it a real priority of national policy. To do all these things, which are good and right, we need resources, investments, in short, public spending. We therefore need to take back resources that, directly or indirectly, the mafias and corruption take away from us. What are the practical consequences of these reasonings? I call for no legislative priorities to be set in the resolution approving the DEF and for them to be linked to the public finance maneuver: the prescription reform and the reform of the anti-mafia code under Legislative Decree No. 159 of 2011. Only with the formal link to the DEF of these measures will we give the feeling that the fight against corruption and the mafia has become an economic priority of the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u12	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u13	Madam President, the report to Parliament accompanying the DEF clearly shows that the estimate of GDP growth for 2016 is 1.2%, but could be subject to downward risks due to uncertainty about domestic demand and the ability of Italian companies to expand their exports in a context of increased economic difficulties. We believe that the measures taken by the Government have supported a few sectors, including the banking sector and the fossil energy sector, but preferring to maintain rents rather than a virtuous circle of growth. The Government has not been able to take action in the competition of the markets and I recall that in my Commission the examination of the competition measure is interrupted by the well-known events related to the Red Tempa scandal and consequent resignation of the Minister. What then to say about the reform of the tariff of the charges of the electric bill on the electric market, that they see a drastic reduction of the remuneration of the investments and an increase of the cost of the supply of electricity, that will therefore weigh on the competitive capacities of the companies, helping to generate deflation? We here have abruptly interrupted a virtuous circuit of investments in renewables and decentralized self-production. We interrupted it when it was one of the few things that worked well. There is no news about other fundamental and potentially rich sectors such as tourism, culture, trade and the production of typical Italian consumer goods, but they are not sufficiently protected in their identity as made in Italy. Also in innovation and research, two fundamental cornerstones for sustainable development, we are in great delay and taillight among the industrialised countries. Instead, capital is invested in obsolete sectors thanks to the sale of an avant-garde heritage without imagining a plan of valorization and revival; I refer to the Versalis case, which must make us think and which we must pay more attention to. We must act urgently by changing production patterns, shifting interests to other sectors. In particular, for example, instead of bringing out thousands of euros abroad to meet domestic energy demand, so by importing energy (because 80% of the energy we still import it) with consequences for the warring countries around us, we could and should invest in reducing consumption and domestic production with renewable sources. Let us remember that energy efficiency is our first major energy source, but I still do not see the implementation of that motion for the stabilisation of ecobonus, which we voted unanimously two weeks ago. On the other hand, if we were to take this path, we would free clean resources and promote a virtuous circuit of social, economic, environmental and health progress, with the generation of new jobs in large numbers, and we would have the reduction of polluting emissions and the protection of the territory, which at this moment are two very painful points. I would also like to point out what is written in black and white by the Parliamentary Bureau of Budget (UPB) which says that the possible emergence of negative surprises on the front of real growth and inflation would put at risk the dynamics of nominal GDP and, with it, the path of lowering the debt-to-GDP ratio. The UPB points out that the numbers contained in the DEF, in the fork of possibility, are always taken in the most rosy estimate: there is no room for manoeuvre in case of any compromise. In fact, the government has focused the DEF on a forecast of GDP growth that corresponds to the highest end of the fork, so the negative consequences, which cannot be excluded, would affect it very much. Estimates of deficit and debt are based on optimistic growth assumptions. How much can we believe that the future growth hypothesis of 1.7% is achievable, given that the growth of the last ten years has been zero and the global economic situation remains low? Also the International Monetary Fund, which is of course not biased, disassembles the DEF and cuts the projected growth estimates for 2016 and 2017, saying that: The growth was slower than expected in Italy. Therefore, the estimates of the International Monetary Fund are lower than those contained in the DEF and this should make us think because - I repeat - it is not biased. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Zuffada is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u14	Madam President, in my brief speech, I shall deal in particular with the health problem. There is no doubt that the National Health System, compared to other international systems, is particularly relevant to the problem of universality: we have always considered health to be a primary asset and, therefore, it is up to the State, on the basis of the taxes that citizens pay, to provide considerably adequate services. A very interesting document of the Higher Institute of Health gives us some data that are, in my opinion, the indispensable premise to understand and judge the attitude of the Government regarding the problem of health, especially as regards the availability of resources, the costs and the structural structure of this country. Since the 1990s, Italian health expenditure has always been lower than the European average in absolute terms than in percentage terms of GDP. In 2011, total health expenditure per capita was 24% lower than in EU countries. In 2001, this difference was 19.9%. Over the years, therefore, the gap between expenditure per capita in Italy and that of other European countries has gradually deteriorated. Then there is another interesting aspect, which is the sustainability of the system, on which in 12a The Commission is in the process of carrying out a survey. Unfortunately, it has been shown that, compared to the increase in pathologies, the ageing of the population and the reduction of resources, the sustainability of the system, in the near future, could have some problems. There is, moreover, a structural problem of the National Health System: according to a survey, about one sixth of 82 Italian hospitals have a date of construction before 1900. Therefore, we need resources for the restructuring of hospital structures because, just as they are combined, especially in some realities of the country, they become absolutely unmanageable and unproductive. Not to mention, then, the problem of staff: over the years there has been a systematic reduction in turnover, so there has been an ageing of all the medical and nursing staff (without mentioning the contractual blocks that they had). What does this mean in a particular way? That the gap in the various regions of Italy is getting deeper and deeper. Beyond the universality so flagrant, unfortunately, the gap and inequalities between the various regional realities are increasing considerably, especially in those regional realities subject to the return plans, which, on the one hand, have led to an improvement in the economic situation, on the other, have led to a deterioration in the quality of services. All this, also following the indications regarding the expenditure contained in the DEF (a reduction of 720 million in 2017, 1,530 in 2018 and 1,589 in 2019), says a lot about what is the behaviour of this Government regarding the premises and conclusions. In fact, if the premises are acceptable - and the premises are in the opinion expressed by the 12th The Commission - I think the proposals that are being made with regard to the health problem go in the opposite direction; so one thing is to say, another is to do. For these reasons, our opinion on the health situation will be negative in this House, just as it was in the Commission. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u15	. He's enlisted to speak Senator Filippi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u16	Madam President, Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, with the approval of the new procurement code, the old rules including the objective law have also been repealed. Consequently, the most immediate innovations are recorded, precisely in terms of programmers' instruments relating to public works and infrastructure. From this edition of the DEF, in fact, the annex infrastructure, that, from the following year, will be replaced by two new programming instruments. The first, the General Transport and Logistics Plan is actually an old knowledge for us. Inaugurated by the then Minister Bersani as an ordinary tool for planning public works, it lasted only one season. With the change of government and with the experience of the second Berlusconi Government, the season of the objective law opened: a period that we consider today, net of all the easy polemics on the realizations and the objectives failed, fruitless precisely from the point of view of the planning and the strategy of development of the Country. It is no coincidence that the most serious limit introduced with the objective law was precisely the corruptive system, which at each level it tolerated and favoured. Today, starting from this DEF and with those who will follow, we return to the centrality of the ordinary tools of planning public works. In fact, it is only from a serious programming, that it is really in function of the new needs of mobility of the people and the greater logistic efficiency for the goods, that it can derive a correct and transparent selection of the priorities because of the effective availability of the unfortunately scarce public resources. The second programming tool is the Multi-annual Programming Document. It will be a more operational three-year instrument, with its annual update of the planned works for which it is planned to be implemented; a specific instrument, therefore, to select priorities for government action. The guidelines set out in the annex to this DEF, which we could define as a transition, are also clear and absolutely acceptable to us. Firstly, the policy of crossing points and connecting tunnels to the trans-European corridors: a challenging match for our country in terms of system competitiveness with the other member countries of the European Union, and concerning the efficiency of our logistics network for both material and intangible infrastructure. On the one hand, railways and highways that overcome the physical barriers of the Alps, which have always determined the condition of islandity of our country; on the other, the digital procedures that allow to break down, already today with more ease than in the past, the bureaucracy, and with it the dead times of allocation of the goods, as happens, for example, in the ports. Secondly, there is finally also the awareness on the part of this Government that, if the game is played on the Alpine passes, this challenge can only be won if our production and consumption markets are better organized, from an infrastructural point of view. From the connection of the productive districts to the harbour and airport ports of call there is a widespread infrastructural request of connection with the main railway arteries of the High Speed and those highways. Finally, the element that most of others distinguishes the innovation that the new season intends to pursue is the attention to urban centers and large metropolitan areas. Here the Government intends to intervene with a rich program of railway works, from the metropolitans to the trams, that they want to represent in concrete the care of the iron announced. And, in addition to these, there are also projects of more intelligent and flexible mobility, which constitute the figure of a new sensitivity both to the efficiency of transport and to the quality of life. It is a programme that does not have equal for the provision of bike paths and connecting projects between the various modes of transport, in order to achieve a complete modal integration; in short, the promotion on a large scale of a more appropriate and appropriate mode of transport according to the distance of travel. The state of efficiency of a country, of a great country like ours, does not arise from the material crisis of these years and from the moral crisis of previous years in a moment. A clear and effective strategy is needed in the light of the general interest. In this sense, the assumptions contained in the annex to the DEF make us believe that a season of positive changes has finally opened up and that this prospect must be pursued with conviction and tenacity. We are certain, in this sense, that the results already in progress will then come to maturity. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u17	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u18	Madam President, the DEF, the Economic and Financial Document, should be an important act for government action. It should contain commitments to consolidate public finances and should define actions aimed at achieving objectives such as growth, productivity and employment. So, apparently, this debate should be an important moment. In reality, unfortunately, this document seems absolutely vague and empty, therefore essentially useless, and its forecasts seem absolutely unreliable; they have been and probably will be in the past, especially this year on some fundamental values, such as the forecast of GDP. Let's remember that last year for the first time - it was perhaps the only exception to the rule - a forecast of GDP growth was made substantially reliable, which was then found at the end of the year, while in the previous years this never happened: especially two years ago there was a difference between forecasts and very significant reality. This year, the government expects GDP growth of 1.2%, compared with forecasts by the International Monetary Fund and the OECD, which are more than one percent at best. From this point of view, the Government has highlighted a reversal of trend which it considers to be structural and important. It is true that in past years GDP has never grown, indeed it had a negative sign, and that in 2015 there was this reversal of course for the first time. However, it is also right to note and recall that the Parliamentary Budget Office defines the growth of Italian GDP as being normally slow. This is the expression that has been used, because if there is a +0.8 percent of Italy, at the same time we see a +2.4% of the USA, but also, remaining in Europe, a +1.5 percent of Germany, a +2.2 percent of the United Kingdom and a +3.2 percent of Spain. This last country, despite the similarities of deficit and debt with our and its economic situation not easy, finds a growth of GDP that is clearly higher than the Italian one and makes us remain one of the last wheels of the cart of growth and economic recovery, which in the eyes of the Italians appears to be more a chimera than a reality. The DEF also provides for the postponement of the application of safeguard clauses, again with absolute indeterminateness. In fact, it is expected that this application, which would be absolutely devastating for the economy, will be postponed through a complex set of public expenditure review interventions that are not better defined. It is, therefore, a document which is increasingly unnecessary for certain planning and for Parliament to obtain a conscious vote on the motions for resolutions to be tabled. We see other weak points, one of which is linked to privatisation. Privatisations worth € 6.5 billion, representing 0.4 per cent of GDP, were carried out in 2015. Theoretically, these privatisations had to lead to a reduction in public debt, because this should be the aim, the intent, the aim and the regulatory necessity of privatisation, while in reality every year we see that even when privatisations are done, unfortunately, we do not get a reversal of course compared to the growth of debt. The measures taken end up being one-off operations, aimed exclusively at holding, for at least one year, the budgets of the State and its needs. It is, therefore, an action that clearly provides for the depletion of the assets of the State and of the citizens without obtaining a concrete, incisive and decisive effect in terms of reducing the enormous debt of our country. This type of choice therefore seems absolutely not to be acceptable also because privatisations have serious consequences for the citizens, as happened for example with the closure of all the peripheral post offices and as probably will happen with the entrance of the private ones in the Italian State Railways, with the risk that the more peripheral areas of our territory are unfortunately abandoned. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Tosato, I invite you to conclude. TOSATO (LN-Aut). Yes, Madam President. I also remember the uncontrolled spending on the hospitality of illegal immigrants in our country, which will be increasing again this year, and the employment that does not grow. The growth of the government's propaganda is really ridiculous and ridiculous, just over 0.1 percent and exclusively because of the tax reductions for the definition of contracts without a time limit. It is a bonus policy that serves electorally, but does not affect growth. Then I remember a spending review that doesn't happen. The Government is able to apply the spending review only to local authorities, with the implementation of linear cuts to serious damage especially to our health, which is one of our most important assets. The government, therefore, imposes on others what it is unable to do and impose on itself. The reduction of the costs of the state apparatus has not been implemented or started and the responsibilities are placed only on the shoulders of the poor local administrators who are in serious difficulty in keeping together the needs not to increase the tax burden and to guarantee... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u19	Senator Tosato, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u20	TOSATO (LN-Aut). As I said, local administrators are struggling to reconcile a fair level of taxation with the need to guarantee essential services to people, which unfortunately are now being denied. In conclusion, the assessment of this document is very negative because of its indeterminateness and vagueness, for absolutely optimistic forecasts, for an economy that does not grow and an employment that, unfortunately, is on the stakes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u21	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it should now be clear that national parliamentarians in the euro area are increasingly entrusted with the role of mere certifiers of constraints and impositions decided elsewhere. Constraints and impositions that do not reflect at all the actual and particular socio-economic needs of each State, also because the plan to equip Europe with a genuine single market and to create the so-called Europe of the peoples has remained virtually on the map and in the intentions of the Treaties. The document of economy and finance, whether that of 2015 or 2016, is the most evident proof of this, because, for how many improvements can be made to this text, the only sensible gesture would be to reject it in total This DEF is full of references and referrals, figures based on optimistic future forecasts; undefined figures waiting for better times and a hypothetical growth and forecasts totally unreliable, in order to seek benevolence and consensus in Brussels or perhaps, simply, to follow the line of European Diktats, rather than proposing effective and consistent economic policy programs with the current Italian economic situation for the revival of domestic demand, investment and employment. Italy's distance from average European growth is now clear, with an employment rate that remains stable below the above average. It is a document focused, from the beginning, not only on policies to reduce a debt that citizens have not actually contracted, but through which, even, we think of reducing the debt-to-GDP ratio through the transfer of public property: the usual lie that is told to motivate every major privatisation carried out so far. It must be remembered that the absolute protection of the social rights which are the subject of the achievements of our civilization is now subject to the pursuit of the objective of price stability. Sacrifices and still sacrifices are imposed on Italians in the name of balance of the budget, antihistorical metastases, disembodied in our fundamental law. The DEF does not give answers to the real and multiple social emergencies of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, the cost that Europe imposes on us is inescapable: devalue the rights of workers, pensioners, sick people and students, with more than proportional effects on the real economy, which it would like to relaunch, while businesses that were once our flagship are bought by those who want to appropriate our history or by those who want to get rid, now, of dangerous competitors. Like the attempt to dismantle the public health system for the profit of individuals, remaining in line with the policies of a government that has led to the result that many citizens have renounced to cure for the increase of the ticket and the endless waiting lists. For 2016, €117.6 billion was expected from the previous DEF in 2013, but then dropped to €113.4 billion with the 2015 DEF, to achieve real funding of €111 billion, including €800 million for the new LEAs. We are systematically demolishing the greatest social achievement of Italian citizens: a public health service, fair and universal, to be defended and guaranteed to future generations. Going specifically and comparing the current data with those contained in the 2015 DEF, the current coalition of Government will be satisfied for having apparently righted the forecasts, with a minimum deviation, of the greater indebtedness. In fact, this low deviation derives from a total overestimate of revenues of 4.7 billion and 5 billion euros for expenditure. We have had a worrying overestimate of direct taxes of as much as EUR 6.5 billion, partially offset by an increase in indirect taxes mainly due to the extension of reverse charge practice. On the exit side there has been a decrease in the salaries of civil servants by EUR 3.1 billion, rather unexplained since the number of work units has not decreased. Even taking into account the fact that the billion euros planned for the good school was not all within the competence of 2015, this fall, with equal labour force, remains inexplicable. In fact, the doubt is that the substantial zeroing of overtime payments for non-staff offices and the strong cut in productivity wages have contributed to this absolutely counterproductive reduction in a clear aggregate demand crisis. All this means that large and powerful lobbyists are able to make the public apparatus weaker in order to take over its means and skills, often at convenient prices. On the other hand, how can we trust a government that is the spokesperson for the drilling lobby at sea and whose President of the Council is warning in favour of abstentionism for a referendum on this? How can we trust a European environmental policy which supports the capture and storage of carbon dioxide as a safe practice and which is an immature, costly and risky technology, which is more a justification for building new coal-fired power stations than an embankment for greenhouse gas emissions? As when it comes to renewable energy and then we see the uncontrolled proliferation of biomass power plants that, although they do not produce CO2, in principle, nevertheless lead to an increase in emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere, effectively leading to a deterioration of air quality. I can therefore conclude that only luck has led the amount of revenue and expenditure to compensate, certainly not for a real capacity of the Government to plan and plan economic phenomena in support of the real needs of public spending. We have sacrificed everything on the altar of European integration which has untenable economic, health and human costs. Well, the worst wish that the International Monetary Fund has given is unfortunate and finally arrived. Thanks to this further manoeuvre, the compression of citizens' rights finds an interpretation among the darkest of our millennium: we must ask our citizens for every sacrifice, depriving them of all hope, unreasonablely lengthening the time of retirement, but above all discouraging in any way those legitimate life expectations that would have been necessary to cultivate and encourage. On the basis of all this, my vote can only be against. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u23	We greet the students and teachers of the Istituto Tecnico Commerciale (Technical Trade Institute) in Turin, who are visiting the Senate and attend our work. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u24	Senator Cantini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in my brief speech, I will focus only on some aspects of the FED addressed in the 8th Commission, of which I am a member, with regard to transport infrastructure and logistics which, in my opinion, represent one of the most important issues of the government action, which will determine in a consistent way the success or not of the entire economic and financial strategy that has as its primary objective the economic and employment growth of our country. After these two years of Renzi Government, 2015 ended with the positive sign, which we hadn't seen in years. We have struggled hard to reverse the trend and achieve 0.8% growth. We have managed to remove only some of the obstacles that have blocked, in recent years, the country's production system and its institutional political system. To unlock the country system, we have now called into question, in particular, those sacred monsters that have governed economic policies in the last ten years: one of these is the Stability Pact, which has led to the collapse of public investment, up to their half-life. The release of Italy 2014, the first loosening of the Stability Pact of the Municipalities and the acceleration of spending of EU funds allowed Italy, in 2015, to reverse the trend and return to growth, also in the investment sector (even if flexible). The measures contained in the law of stability 2016 - I am referring to the investment clause, to the greater resources ANAS and Ferrovie, to the farewell to the Pact in the Municipalities - have the task of spreading throughout the national territory the yards of those public works expected and postponed for years: railways, schools, roads, museums, libraries, thus overcoming the infrastructural gap that separates us from the other European countries and at the same time giving impetus to the economic recovery starting from the construction sector, which has seen lost hundreds of thousands of jobs over the years. The positive data of industrial production recorded in the first months of 2016 suggest a new acceleration of gross domestic product in the coming quarters. In line with these developments, the DEF expects GDP to increase by 1.2% in 2016. In the planning scenario, the acceleration of growth would continue also in the following two years, thanks to a fiscal policy oriented to support economic activity and employment, with interventions aimed at improving the competitiveness of the country and, as has been said, at an acceleration of investment. Entering in the specific - to sum up, having no time to deepen - the DEF, in reference to the infrastructures and the transports, emphasizes first of all how until now these sectors have suffered from an excess of regulation, moreover fragmented and disorganic, and of an absence of planning and programming. For the development of the national transport system it will therefore be essential to implement both the measures foreseen in the National Plan of the airports, prepared a few months ago, and the investments for the railway network that constitutes a priority - and I want to emphasize: a priority - of the Government in the matter of transport. In the last two years have been allocated 17 billion euros of additional resources, 9 of which already destined to the update, for 2015, of the contract of program with Italian Railway Network (RFI). Money aimed at improving safety and technology for the movement of trains, enhancing passenger transport in metropolitan, regional and European corridors and improving freight transport. The other 8 billion will be the subject of the update of the contract for 2016. With reference to the road network, the multiannual plan of ANAS 2015-2019, aimed mainly at strengthening the strategic infrastructure assets of the Country, improving access to the city and strengthening intermodal connections, provides investments on more than 3,600 kilometers of roads for a total amount of 15 billion euros, of which 6.3 billion for the completion of itineraries, 7.3 billion destined to extraordinary maintenance and 1.4 billion for new works, mainly in correspondence of urban nodes. The infrastructural reinforcement of the main urban nodes of the Country represents a strategic choice of the DEF. In fact, if we take reference to the main 8 metropolitan cities we see that there are the most important and significant industrial and manufacturing poles, where 31.9 percent of the added value of the industrial sector and 30 percent of the manufacturing sector is concentrated. Providing these nodes with adequate tangible and intangible infrastructure means not only ensuring better accessibility for millions of people, but also and not least, making a contribution to the strengthening of our manufacturing districts and therefore to the reduction of unemployment. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Langella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, no one in this House can deny that the international economic framework, despite the most optimistic forecasts at the beginning of 2015, has deteriorated during the second part of last year. All this has been a brake on the growth of our economy, but it has managed to achieve growth at 0.8%. Some may find it disappointing, but it still represents growth. In fact, we must not forget that economic forecasts are never accurate, subject to variables that are not easily ponderable, such as the entry into recession of the economy of some emerging countries or the psychological and economic consequences of the terrorist attacks that have occurred recently or, again, the financial turbulence that affected the economy of the United States of America or the sharp drop in the price of oil. Not to mention the migrant emergency, which has revealed so many weaknesses in the European strategy in addressing this issue. All factors that have led to the revision of the Government's objectives also on the 2016 Document of Economics and Finance. So no scandal, ladies and gentlemen, if the growth rate expected in the DEF for 2016 falls to 1.2% compared to the figure of 1.6% foreseen in the previous Update Note. This is a fair prudential forecast which, as the President of the Council pointed out a few days ago, lays down for an attitude of responsibility and seriousness on the part of the Government. And this is also because we still think that domestic demand will hold and that Italian companies will be able to expand their exports. So, beyond criticism, it is incontrovertible that the Italian economy grows, and that this growth goes hand in hand with the continuous improvement of public finances, both in terms of deficit and debt. The employment rate has increased and also the trend in household consumption has increased; in addition, the level of fixed investment has also increased and this is a visible sign of a reversal of trend. The increase in GDP will be 1.4% in 2017 and 1.5% in 2018; the deficit/GDP ratio will be 2.3% in 2016 and 1.8% in 2017, with 11 billion flexibility required by the European Union. Also the debt will fall and again in this case, Prudently, a less vertical descent has been expected, but the reversal of trend will be: the debt ratio will fall to 132.4 percent this year and to 130.9 percent in 2017. However, the fact that we still have to consider is that against this scenario the Government has announced that there will be no corrective manoeuvres, indeed it is expected that the tax pressure in 2016 will fall to 42.8%, with a decrease of 0.7 percentage points, and this will happen also considering the effects that the bonus of 80 euros will have on the net income of the workers. On the other hand, in order to continue the policy of support for growth by combining it with the strengthening and consolidation of public finances, some important choices must also be made, as well as the assumption of some strong responsibility, and I think that is progressing in this direction. Certainly the target of the deficit / GDP ratio of 1.8% in 2017, compared to 1.1 percent of last autumn's forecasts, suggests a request for flexibility of 0.7 points of GDP, of 11 billion, and on this point, there has been a great deal of controversy, since many doubts have been raised about the possibility of obtaining further flexibility from Europe. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, it must be made clear that the path of reforms initiated by the Government and supported by the AL-A Group makes it possible to request and use additional flexibility, so that the forecast of 1.8% deficit in 2017 is entirely compatible with the European scenario, namely with the specific reference to those exceptional circumstances concerning the marked deterioration of the international environment. On this point, as we have also heard in this House, there have been statements of scepticism and concern. However, ladies and gentlemen, I allow you to reflect on the fact that the reform path of the Government allows our country to be able to ventilate such a request for flexibility, as the Italian situation with regard to public finances is better than that of other countries, both because of reforms, and because of investments. If we were France, perhaps these perplexities would be justified, but in our case I would be cautious in giving credit to the pessimistic. The undeniable truth is that Italy has been immersed for years in an unprecedented crisis that has highlighted the strong structural problems of the country; therefore, because of this situation, it is normal that the effort to reverse a visibly serious trend and that has impacted on all sections of the population must necessarily be prolonged over time. It is not possible, that is, to evoke miraculistic recipes that taste like being created by sorcerers apprentices. Inside the Document that we are examining there are, instead, the fundamental ingredients for a realistic strategy of recovery of our Country: to continue in the structural reform of Italy stimulating investments, both private and public; to continue to stimulate the creation of new employment, in addition to that that has been increased during 2015; to gradually consolidate public finances, in such a way that the ratio between debt and GDP is reduced; the progressive reduction of the tax pressure; the identification and the fight against waste accompanied by a greater efficiency of civil justice and the rationalization of the expenditure and the activity of the public administration; to continue in the actions to increase the competitiveness of the Italy system. All these actions certainly look to the medium and long term, but this is the time horizon to which to refer in order to overcome those historical gaps that have caused fragility of our economic system that the great crisis, exploded in 2008, has highlighted with dramatic crudeness. However, we want to show ourselves confident, convinced as we are that the real recovery is made up of efforts, courage, fatigue, small and constant steps that reach us towards the greatest goal that is to improve the quality of life of Italians. [[Applause from the AL-A Group (MpA). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u28	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u29	Madam President, the only thing that is understood very well in this DEF - for a change - is that there is a further attack on the world of work, with an attempt to cancel national labour bargaining, thus allowing a wild competition of which the only ones to pay the price will, once again, be workers. I have heard, in some interventions, of the jobs act, but this has produced nothing, except gifts to rain of public funding and money to the masters. For the workers nothing has changed, indeed the situation has worsened, after you have reduced the world of work to a voucher system (almost 10 million in the first three months of 2016, 45 percent more than in the previous year). Other than that, I can't find anything else. We continue with the Youth Guarantee, from which it is achieved that only 3% of our young people have been able to enter a contract of employment and this has allowed the masters to make their comfortable (a Youth Guarantee contract cost practically - be careful - 36,000 euros). Unemployment remained what it was. In this DEF there is no shadow of the guaranteed minimum income, yet our families are impoverishing: by now 10 million families live in poverty. The last fact that was given to us is that health prevention has also become a luxury for our citizens: our country is the last in this. But, as I say, I am not surprised, because I expect nothing from this political market, which is destroying the world of work. It would be enough if I had listened - and I address my colleagues in the Commission - to the last speech that Senator Ichino made in that Chamber and I should like to thank Senator D'Adda, who was the only one who spoke. I recommend that everyone read the report of that sitting a few days ago, when the French colleagues from the Commission came to work, and the speech made by Professor Ichino on what concerns the jobs act and who opposes it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator Barozzino. BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). The statements made by the person you call Professor Ichino are in the act: I invite you to reflect. And I am addressing above all that part of the policy that thinks that the world of work cannot be reduced to commodity. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator De Pin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u30	She's enlisted to speak Senator Mangili. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u31	Madam President, the indicators put you back in this DEF promise nothing good and the objectives are still far from being achieved, which would make it possible to see a country recovering. A recovery that is absent, so much so that the growth of inequalities and poverty does not stop and the Mezzogiorno of Italy is increasingly the South of Europe. Another great absentee in the DEF is economic policy. The government has relied on the favourable international economic situation and on the neoliberal structural reforms which, until now, have left a certain gap. Interest rates and oil so low will not last long. The government continues to ride the European wave by adhering to the European budgetary approach, characterised by linear cuts in public spending, supporting profits and reducing wages and social protection. All this in order to achieve the fantastic budget balance which, despite the efforts that citizens have been called upon to support every day, was once again postponed, with the forecast to be achieved in 2019. In the DEF, health spending in 2019 will fall to 6.5 percent of GDP, i.e. below the level of health risk indicated by the World Health Organization. Added to this are interventions on social security and the social state. At present, the DEF excludes interventions in support of outgoing flexibility in the field of pensions, and the economic resources allocated to households with minor children are small. We continue to follow the path that leads to the reduction of the deficit and the public debt in a more attenuated way, remaining adherent to the line of the so-called flexible austerity. It is clear that it is inability to devote the few resources available to real economic development, which for us is not growth, but the well-being and cultural and social progress of a people. In the DEF 2016 there is no trace of evaluation of the Fair and Sustainable Wellness Indicator (BES). Is it so conservative that it is difficult to get away from the usual economic parameters? We hoped that GDP and BES could walk together, so as to allow a new confrontation on the country's growth, also from the point of view of the quality of life and not only on the basis of the increasingly obsolete economic indicators. We are talking basically about indicators such as health, education and training, work and reconciliation of living times, economic well-being, social relations, safety, environment, research and innovation, quality of services. In short, we are not just talking about industrial portfolios, market values, stock exchanges. How can this government base its political strategy when, to the very slight improvement of the economic conditions of the families, does not correspond a reduction of the indicator of serious material deprivation? This indicator detects the proportion of people in families experiencing symptoms of discomfort, such as not being able to adequately heat their homes or not knowing how to bear unexpected expense as it might be a sudden illness. We remain firm in the idea that the Government must change direction, aim to put in place serious and targeted public investments to generate stable employment and to commit its resources to reduce the social inequalities present throughout the territory. All this can only take into account measures to retrain public expenditure, guaranteeing the level of services essential to the citizen. It is also necessary to avoid the sale of shares in national assets, despite the government's persistence in pursuing privatisation to reduce debt. When you are able to include in the budget and economic planning documents not the usual safeguard clause, but the safeguard of our happiness, then this Italy will be able to start again talking about recovery, revival, awakening and, therefore, a new season of democratic and social life. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u32	Senator Gibiino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u33	Madam President, the reading of the DEF appears to be extremely worrying, contrary to what the rapporteur said in his initial speech. It is said that Italy does not grow because it decreases all the rest of the world. Low inflation can only help families' real incomes in the short term, however, low inflation leads to such distrust, which entrepreneurs hold back from investing in the country. As a result, Italy can only be a country tow: if others go well, we too go well; if others go badly, we, instead of taking this opportunity to take a step forward and become trainers, stop. The rapporteur has just announced that if GDP stands at +0.8% this year, we will see figures like +1.2, +1.4 and +1.5 in the coming years. With what is written in the DEF, however, this will never happen, unless the other driving countries, such as the United States or the Asian countries, recover and, consequently, take back Italy. The Economic and Financial Document cannot therefore fail to take into account the fact that Italy is a second country and not a first country. In terms of infrastructure (which is the part that interests me the most, which I have followed in the Commission and on which Forza Italia, compared to the opinion of the 8th Commission on the DEF, has given a negative assessment), shows that there is no project of valorisation. It is true that, for the first time, at least one tries to draw up a development strategy through two instruments: what in the DEF is identified as the General Transport and Logistics Plan (which should contain the strategic lines for the modalities of people and goods) and the Multiannual Planning Document, which attests the interventions relative to the field of the transports and considers worthy these or those others. In principle, starting to think in a DEF to a programming that leads to a development of the country accomplished is certainly correct, but you have to see how you decline the development plans. On the next page, in fact, it shows how an assessment is made to choose the investments to be made and in which contexts, i.e. through quantitative evaluation tools, which are subsequently identified in the SIMPT (the Information System for Monitoring and Planning of Transport). It seems to us, that is, to understand that, through an interpolation of data, and therefore of demand and supply according to the various areas of the Country, of the various questions of passengers and goods and of the offers - whether through iron, rubber, naval transport or air - we can arrive to decide where to direct the financings and realize the works. However, through this system, in the absence of the right corrective measures, what can happen? There is demand and supply where there is development and, therefore, where there is more demand there will be more supply; where there is no demand, and that is in areas orographically compromised (Calabria, Molise, Abruzzo, Sicily, Sardinia, Liguria), since there is less demand, there will be less supply. The responsibility, within the DEF, the Government and the State in investments in these sectors is extremely delicate, because precisely with the Act of Government n. 251 we approach to privatise a series of important assets (think of Railways or maybe, within a more general mobility society, also the confluence of ANAS with its roads). Where we go to privatise, it is clear that finance and private individuals will only be able to invest in sectors where there is a correct and important remuneration for capital. Therefore, important features that have already been developed will be particularly taken care of by investors and capital. If there is no corrective and far-sightedness on the part of the Government and the State to invest in less organized, less infrastructured and less potentialized areas, there will be an increase in the infrastructural gap between North and South, but above all - I mean more - between developed areas and underdeveloped areas - and I do not just mean North and South but also, as I said before, orographically compromised areas - that will determine a situation of economy on one side of the country and a slowed economy on the other side. When I come to the conclusion, I would just like to point out that, while the infrastructure plan was previously attached to the DEF, which perhaps changed from year to year and perhaps also became the dream book, for two years now remains the book of the 25 strategic works. And having Deputy Minister Morando here, I would like to highlight some of them, and I quote the cities because, after studying geography, we all remember where they are located in our country: Torino-Lione, Brennero, Milano-Venezia, Terzo passico, Venezia-Trieste, Pedemontana lombarda, Pedemontana veneta, ring road East Milan, Grosseto-Siena - excused but, being Sicilian, for me also Grosseto and Siena are in the North - Turin interconnection, metro of Turin, Milan-Monza metro, line 4 of Milan, tram of Florence, railway-metro service of Bologna. The rest are a few gems in the South, some in Sicily, a work in Sardinia and some elsewhere. It is clear that, if we maintain these 25 works as strategic asset, we privatise and assign to private individuals the realization of new works without a strategic vision to recover the gap, and in the TEN-T networks Europe tells us that all mobility can work and, even in terms of savings and attention to the environment and consumption, there must be interconnection and recovery of infrastructures between the various countries, I must believe that in Italy we have to solve our problems by recovering the infrastructural gap between North and South, between developed areas and underdeveloped areas. [[Applause from Senator D'Alì]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fornaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u35	Madam President, representatives of the Government, colleagues, the DEF is always a document full of data and stimuli, a complex document, as always. It is therefore in a constructive spirit, and by announcing my vote in favour that, in the five minutes that have been reserved for me, I would like to try to focus on some central issues for growth and fairness and on some critical issues. First of all there is - we must have this awareness - an extraordinary emergency work in our country. In 2008, in the first year of crisis, we were at 6.7% unemployment, while today we are at 11.9% and in 2019, according to the DEF, we will reach 9.9%, a third more than the beginning of the crisis. With the jobs act we put extraordinary and unrepeatable resources on the topic of work. The 2015 results are positive, but certainly not as extraordinary as the economic commitment: 0.8% less unemployment. And the negative results of the first quarter of 2016 show that the driving role of decontribution was central and that the abolition of Article 18 for permanent contracts with increasing protection in albeit slight growth in employment was absolutely not essential. On the same subject, the National Agency for Active Labour Policies has not yet arrived. We then have the issue of vouchers, which risk becoming a real national disgrace if they are not corrected. There is the theme of poverty, with over 4 million Italians under the absolute poverty line. There is the reform of the labour market, with which the instrument of the redundancy fund was properly abolished by way of derogation, which had certainly not been used at its best in the past. Today, however, in the absence of a comprehensive revision of the instruments of social shock absorbers, we are in a situation for which, in Piedmont alone, about 100,000 former workers in 2016 will no longer have any coverage. Finally, there is the issue of exit flexibility on pensions. All this recalls the fragility of the recovery, and not just for a zero comma GDP growth. It seems necessary in a European dimension - more and more necessary - to have an extraordinary investment plan; without healthy investment there is no job creation. The Government has chosen the stimulus to domestic demand as a response to the difficulties on international trade of our exports as well. The data confirm a positive intervention of the 80 euros, while this will hardly happen, in the context of support for domestic consumption, for the abolition of the TASI and the IMU on the first house indiscriminately. In fact, we are witnessing a impoverishment of civil servants, in the sixth year without contracts. It would have been better to invest a share of that reduction, one billion or one and a half billion, on renewals of the public employment and also on new qualified hirings. Government debt, in the 2016 target, falls by 0.3. It is at risk - we all know - if only GDP had a small negative deviation on the forecasts. It continues, therefore, to be a boulder on the path of recovery and growth. Here is an issue that I would like to stress, the fight against evasion. Good results were achieved in 2015, but I find it hard to share some triumphal tones that I have read. We need to work harder on prevention - for example, the positive results of the split payment - and not on the issue of repression. From this point of view, there is still poverty of ideas. My colleague, Guerra, during the examination of the 2016 Stability Act, together with many of us, in the fight against VAT evasion - and I recall that it is worth 40 billion - has proposed the transmission in telematic form to the Agency of the revenue of the data of tax interest contained in the invoices. In Portugal, where this rule has been included, VAT revenue has increased by 14% in three years. The Government expressed its appreciation and we hope that we can find a concrete sign of this by introducing this rule into the law of stability, since there is no trace of it in the DEF. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fornaro, I invite you to conclude. Mr Fornaro (PD). With regard to safeguard clauses, we agree on sterilization, but there are doubts as to the general nature of the coverage. From now on, it must be clear that we believe that further punitive action against local authorities (in particular the regions) is unacceptable, which would ultimately depress health spending even more, putting the universal system at risk. Finally, I would like to say a few words on a fundamental subject. We get out of the tunnel of the crisis not with tears that break social cohesion, but with a pact between producers to increase productivity that sees the three actors - government, business and workers - and with a fight without neighborhood to escape, circumvention and endemic corruption. We can do this, but we must have greater humility to listen, evaluate and compare ourselves and, if necessary, correct ourselves, never forgetting that reformism is first and foremost pragmatism and not ideology. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u37	Madam President, in the short time available, I too would like to speak on the issue of the Mezzogiorno, which is, in fact, the great absentee in the DEF. I followed the intervention of Senator Gibiino, who rightly spoke about the infrastructure, noting that in this DEF there are very serious shortcomings with regard to the southern regions. However, I would like to point out to you, Madam President, and to all my colleagues who, within the southern question, there is an even more serious southern issue that we all know, but which is less talked about than on other subjects: I am referring to education, high training and research in the southern regions. Madam President, we can achieve all the infrastructure we want (as it should be), but if the brilliant minds that can actually guide the development of our Mezzogiorno are not walking on bridges and roads, we will have done nothing but another hole in the water. I remind everyone that the rate of school dispersal in Sicily is twice as high as the national average and that the minimum and reading skills of children under sixteen are half as high as the national figure. In the field of high education, registrations have decreased somewhat throughout Italy - this is true - but in the southern universities the decrease was almost twice as much as in the other regions of Italy. As for the right to study and scholarships, in the southern regions 35% of those entitled are not covered by scholarships, while in the other regions of the country the figure falls below 10% and, in some of the North, even below 5%. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are burning a generation of southern children and we will not get out of it if we do not vary - that is where the great flaw of the DEF 2016 and this Government, which pervicaciously does not want to address the southern issue especially in these areas - a genuine Marshall plan for education, high training and research in the southern regions. It is true that the university is a national problem, but in the South the greater negativity is concentrated compared to the other regions of the country and it is a serious mortgage for any plan to restart the southern regions. As long as there is no policy for the Mezzogiorno based on education and high training in the DEF, the document cannot be voted on only on this subject. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u38	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u39	Madam President, once again this Government continues to appear completely inadequate. The agricultural and agri-food sector occupies a very small part of the document under consideration, although it is one of the sectors with very positive results, despite the crisis, as demonstrated by the increased exports and revenue opportunities. Yet the government does not take this into account. The government's action appears to be quite insufficient, because it still fails to have a significant impact. The continuous increase in production costs, the reduction in raw materials prices, the consequences of ongoing climate change, unfair competition, counterfeiting and the increase in taxation are still critical that you do not want to take into account. And you didn't want to take this into account even in stability laws 2014, 2015, 2016, in the competitiveness bill, in the agricultural related. Continue to implement strengthening measures which are not in favour of the agricultural and fisheries sectors. You have implemented a number of tax stands, with the increase in the rate of the registration tax for transfers of agricultural land (from 12% to 15%), the revaluation of agricultural incomes, the increase in the IRPEF, and the substantial cut in the fund's allocation for incentives to recruit young agricultural workers. We have proposed that social security and protection measures be introduced on dairy products. We have tried to regulate specific and immediate methods to combat erosion of plant resources, such as those - against the annoying xylella, the red awl, the velute wasp and the olive fly, but continue to be a merchant's ears. We have proposed specific measures to re-evaluate the sector also in favour of agronomic techniques, such as permaculture. One way to help the sector would have been to offer support to production chains with high quality production and guarantee access to micro-credit, which still awaits companies in the professional fishing, fishing and tourism sectors, just to give a great help to the sector. Also in the fisheries sector, it would have been useful to operate within the national competences, in order to establish a clear, transparent and unambiguous discipline on minimum fishing distances, taking into account not only the territorial needs, but also the morphological situation of the territory, without prejudice, of course, to the rules on biological detention and military exercises. We have called for the implementation of emergency legislative instruments in favour of farmers whose activities fall in areas affected by hydrogeological disruption; for the introduction of appropriate measures for simplification and deburocratisation, for the reordering of the control system, for the reduction of the time limits for administrative procedures; for the provision of additional resources to Law 157 of 1992, in view of the continuing agricultural damage caused by wildlife. Nothing, however, has not been taken into account. I shall conclude by making a few brief comments. Agriculture and fisheries represent the productive history of our country, to which must be returned the values snatched by your governments in recent years; Governments made of stolen arms from agriculture, who persevere in robbing the last remaining arms and survived your bad practices. It is only hoped that the agricultural sector will rise again, that it will come to compose the Government, firing you all and sending you really to hoe the land. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u40	Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u41	Madam President, I would like to address the issue of the health sector by pointing out some positive elements and some concerns about the dynamics that are taking place in the health sector. Firstly, I would like to point out that our country, in analogy with what happens in other countries, but with a certain intensity recognized by everyone (including the Court of Auditors) as the highest, is trying to recover all the margins of greater efficiency within this sector. We started from a much lower expenditure than that of France and Germany and that guaranteed better results than those countries, but we are intervening with rather substantial restrictions for several years, which force the Regions to very heavy reorganizations. To the extent that efficiency margins are recovered, this is obviously not only due, but must be sustained at all levels. What worries us is that in the last few years there have been increasing signs of difficulties for citizens to access services. And not only that, but ISTAT data is also emerging the fear they denounced, which we now believed exceeded, that they do not have the money to treat themselves in the face of health services that, increasingly, make it difficult for them to access due to organizational difficulties. Our concern is that in a path of recovery, which is certainly easy, the restrictions imposed in the past on this sector may further worsen the quality of services and the fairness of access to citizens. With regard to the forecasts contained in the DEF, the Health Commission has made a very detailed analysis, of which I summarize only the most important aspects. Meanwhile, the figure of the 2015 expenditure, at first estimated, shows all the difficulties of the Regions to obtain the savings of expenditure expected in the past years in order to reduce the overall dimension of the expenditure. And this - as the Court of Auditors said at its hearing - would deserve further consideration, in order to understand whether these difficulties are linked to specific sectors or whether the measures imposed on the health sector are unlikely to produce concrete results and eventually create the accumulation of situations of great imbalance between revenue and expenditure. For the years ahead, from 2016 onwards, it is positive first of all that the forecasts for this year are broadly in line with those for the 2015 DEF; in the following three years, the reduction in GDP by one tenth of a percentage point each year, to reach 6.5% in 2019 (of course far away, but a trend) is a cause of great concern, because that 6.5% is a very worrying share of GDP for the maintenance of our universalist system. There are three elements that we want to point out to the government, and to share with colleagues, which are of concern and on which we should ensure greater attention. Firstly, I would like to mention the budget and the situation of the staff. We continue to have in place a number of expenditure ceilings and allocations which require a reduction in the number of employees. This makes the situation difficult in a sector that produces services and which, therefore, relies on the main productive factor, which is staff, among other things, increasingly older, subjected to increasingly high shifts and, above all, increasingly replaced by forms of precariousness or even outsourcing of health services. A review of all the constraints imposed on staff in the health sector - I recall that they are greater than those imposed on the rest of the public administration - should be gradually taken into account, starting with the revision of contracts. The second element concerns innovative medicines, which can produce results in terms of reducing mortality or serious patient situations, which must first find some programming. We are not just asking for funding, but for this expenditure to be planned from a clinical, organisational and economic and financial point of view. With regard to the third point, I regret to see the lack, for yet another year or for several years, of a resumption of investment in buildings and health technologies, which would not only enable us to overcome forms of obsolescence and old age that are difficult to bear, but could also contribute to overcoming part of the unemployment of the sector and in the sectors that can offer it the service, as well as to speeding up the process of weak growth that we have also observed in the DEF data. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u42	Senator Bellot is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u43	Madam President, Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Economic and Financial Document produces the essential act for political and economic strategic planning in the short and medium term. In the DEF 2016 are the few indications and the same few certainties to emerge. There is a lack of detailed information on clear and credible alternative measures in order to consolidate the accounts; therefore insufficient to assess whether the government programme can be credible compared to the real decline in debt. There is no serious policy for a medium- and long-term investment programme, which involves a lot of uncertainty, the same uncertainty which further slows down the long-awaited recovery. The same ISTAT, whose assessments are by nature aseptic, expressed doubts, like the parliamentary budgetary office itself, which sees the country exposed to important risks. The absence of inflation represents the greatest risk to debt developments, a variable that cannot be underestimated. Doubts also exist on some key objectives, fundamental for the ultimate goal, such as the revival of growth and employment, starting from debt reduction, asking us how credible it can be. The targets for privatisation revenues are perhaps too ambitious and, at the moment, the confirmations here too are insufficient in the face of excessive optimism. There are no indications of alternatives to the sale of Ferrovie. As far as the safeguard clauses are concerned, we do not understand how they will be neutralized. The dreaded increase in VAT created a situation of lack of clarity and a perception of great insecurity. We would now like to understand which games the overtaking is played on. A more incisive revision of expenditure is needed following clear and energetic choices, in order to realize a real and effective spending review. The Court of Auditors, in February, spoke of "partial failure" by rejecting this Government's expenditure review plan and by raising many doubts about the savings margins on the expenditure side, which may prove to be limited for the next few years. The application of standard costs must be accelerated and historical expenditure must be exceeded. The control of tax evasion must be linked to a lower tax burden. Tax cuts are needed and the entire tax system needs to be redesigned in a structural way. Uncertainty about tax breaks also has a decisive influence on investment and, therefore, on the recovery of the economy. Claims such as a significant reduction in the unemployment rate are not reflected in the current analysis of jobs act: a 74% drop in stable contracts, an increase in vouchers for occasional jobs. Obviously this creates uncertainty for the future, especially among young people who, unfortunately, flee abroad. We're talking local authorities. The abandonment of the Internal Stability Pact, which could give way, now with the balance of the budget sees the Municipalities in difficulty, especially the small ones, with the new limits imposed by financial autonomy, which lead them to no longer be able to bear the cuts: I am thinking of the Mountain Municipalities, the Municipalities of my Province, of Belluno, which have to cope with the provision of services necessary and due to an increasingly elderly population. There are fewer resources for more and more capillaries. The necessary answers are needed to families and businesses to stop the depopulation of mountain areas, whose specificities are recognized also by law n. 56 of 2014, better known as Delrio law, which identifies them for those areas entirely mountain bordering foreign countries. That is why I ask the government to give the necessary resources, because the word "specificity" sums up meaning and dignity. Finally, for the first quarter of 2016, the CER's latest report estimates GDP growth of 0.8% on a trend basis and 0.2% on a cyclical basis. Growth over the whole year would be 0.5 points. This is a confirmation of the over-optimism and too much uncertainty expressed in this DEF 2016 and reaffirms our vote against, certainly due to all the reasons expressed, which do not give any certainty, neither development, nor future possibility of having for this country a quick recovery necessary to restart and be competitive again. [[Applause from the Mixed-Doing Group!]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u44	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that an important document such as the DEF deserves more attention from this House, because it looks at the accounts of the past and plans for the future, but it does not matter. We are all aware that it is very difficult to govern Italy, but I would like to remind you that the Democratic Party has led the country for fourteen of the last twenty-two years, and therefore a bit of responsibility for the conditions in which it is located must be assumed. I will confine my speech to examining some parameters that photograph the dramatic economic situation in which the country is located. Public debt is still a problem, at least until the cost is zero. In the DEF there are 67 billion for expenditure, a little less than the 85 we have paid in the past, but it is always very important resources. A few days ago the Bank of Italy certified the debt (at 15 February 2016) to 2,214 billion euros. It is an unstoppable growth: in February 2013, i.e. at the beginning of this legislature, it stood at 2,017.6 billion, so it grew by 198 billion in three years. Going further back, in 2011, to the settlement of the Monti Government, the debt amounted to 1,905 billion. In these years, therefore, it has increased by 310 billion, despite financial maneuvers cost the Italians tears and blood. But is that the dedicated Italian public? Meanwhile, I would add the 70 billion debts that the public administration has towards the companies, a growing figure rather than decreasing; the debts concealed by the health companies, the participating ones, those of the Provinces, which now, with the cuts made in recent years, are all in disarray. I would add the debts of the municipalities, which are even forced to increase the tax burden. You may not be aware that now about 30% of citizens no longer pay the IMU, the waste tax, the canteen, the transport and now also the municipalities are doomed to failure, at least all those who are in the second row on the coast, where there are no second houses, whose taxes still hold their revenues. I also remember the debts of the Municipality of Rome, which do not fall into the accounts of the public debt and which Silvia Scozzese certified in 13.5 billion. I really don't know how much the Italian public debt is. Then there is the ratio of public debt to GDP, which is also growing: 128.5 percent in 2013, 132.1 percent in 2014 and 132.7 percent in 2015. At each DEF you have announced the improvement of this relationship, but it has never been realized on time. This time you expect a three-tenth of a point drop, which would be a miracle, falling for the first time since 2007. I have serious doubts that this forecast can be realised, because the report has too optimistic a forecast for GDP, a containment of very high interest expenditure and privatisations of 0.5% of GDP: by multiplying 1,671 billion by 0,5 we get 8 billion privatisations, which I do not know how we will achieve. And then let's not fool ourselves: thinking of reducing public debt through privatisation is - I don't say the word I want to use - a heresy. You can't sell family jewelry to plug the budget holes. GDP growth forecast is more than 1.2%: GDP was 1,636 billion in 2015, while GDP is expected to be 1,671 billion (35 billion more) in 2016. I understand that the forecasts must be made with an optimistic vision (if you had a pessimistic vision, it would be even worse), but we must not exaggerate. The forecasts in the DEF of September 2013 estimated for 2016 a GDP of 1,718 billion euros; compared to the forecast you make today 50 billions are missing. Of optimistic prediction in optimistic forecast we are completely wrong and I am not consoled by the fact that some previous government has done even worse. The DEF must be timely and precise. I believe your growth forecast will not come true. You have placed it in the scissors to the maximum limit, but I believe that a good government must be cautious and prudent. You are too optimistic, because we are faced with an international economic framework of great uncertainty by virtue of a great weakness in the global recovery. Reading the newspapers (source Confesercenti), in five years we count 138,643 stores less, 29,067 those closed only in 2015. It is not better in the field of production, where we are witnessing the dismantling of the sector which was once second in Europe only to that of Germany. As a result, you are once again forced to shift the balance of the budget, which you move to "dead dad," i.e. 2019, when you are no longer in the government. Overall, for an extension, you moved it by six years. On the other hand, with regard to the tax burden, 39.1% of 2005 remains a mirage. The tax burden in Italy remains still among the highest in Europe. Italy is one of the biggest European economies for the weight of the tax wedge. In 2015, according to the OECD, the tax and contributory pressure on a family head with two children was 39.9% of the wage. In 2014 it was 38.9%. For families it is, therefore, increased by one point and I do not know what will happen in 2016. In general, the tax burden will remain at 43.5% in 2016, as it was in 2015. But if GDP stagnates, tax pressure increases accordingly, because you expect 5 billion revenue increases, from 784 billion to 789 billion euros in 2016, but you expect 855,7 billion euros for 2019 (71,4 billion more over the four years, i.e. more than 9,15 percent revenue). Then there is Damocles' sword of safeguard clauses, which will amount (I have not understood) to 15 billion, but I do not know how they can be removed. The employment rate in Italy is at 65.5%, which is the lowest among the 28 countries in Europe, except Greece, far from the 2020 target of 67 percent. The most important countries - Germany, Great Britain and Sweden - travel over 70%, while the European average is 64.7%. In essence, while employment is slowly increasing in Europe, in Italy it is virtually stationary. We are not talking about youth unemployment, the situation of which is dramatic. (at 11.30 a.m.) (Following CERONS). The employment of young people in Italy is 48.5% compared to 53.7% of the European average. Last year 100,000 Italians moved their residence from Italy to the rest of the world. Seven million Italians are unemployed or unemployed, i.e. those who do not have a job and who have stopped looking for it because they do not find it. Older and older people don't have the money to cure themselves. Health has gone to be blessed. For the first time in Italy life expectancy is falling (-0.2, -0.3 percent) due to the reduction of prevention caused by cuts in social services. There is a shortage of funds for health expenditure and further reductions are foreseen in the DEF. In the early months of the year - this is truly dramatic - the deaths were 445,000 against 399,000 in the same period last year, an 11 - percent surge. If this step continues, the dead will be 166,000, a level never touched in Italy since 1945. In 2015, there was neither a nuclear catastrophe, nor a devastating earthquake, nor even an epidemic. The Italians had to give up their treatment. In recent years they have worsened the level of food; they have been forced to sleep on the street; those who walk around Rome see how many people sleep on the street and how the situation has changed compared to the past. In essence, the crisis is pouring more and more on the shoulders of the weakest. We believe that your economic policies are inadequate and wrong despite the fact that economic conditions are very favourable. The cost of money has fallen considerably and has risen from 5.2 to 4.2 percent of GDP. There has been a substantial reduction in the energy bill; due to the reduction in the cost of oil that has increased from 100 to 40 dollars. Despite the almost euro/dollar parity, which favours export, the latest data released yesterday represent a worrying and sharp drop in exports to non-European countries by 5.2 percent on an annual basis. Therefore, your exultation, represented by the President-in-Office of the Council a week ago here, is completely out of place. We are faced with an increase in public debt, the closure of companies and the rise in unemployment. Basically, your accounts are high. You have little credibility in your predictions. The country is heading towards the abyss. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u46	We greet the students and teachers of the Institute including Don Lorenzo Milani in Cerveteri, in the province of Rome. Thank you for your visit to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u47	Senator Lucherini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u48	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I read an interesting article this morning about the Republic in which Vincenzo Visco gave us the picture of the heaviness of the crisis that we have experienced in the world, in Europe and in our country. The article has some data that I am referring to because, in my opinion, they are very significant. Italy in 2000 had a per capita GDP of 17 points above the European average. In 2015, it was four points lower than the European average. This means that we have lost 21 points of GDP per capita compared to the European average. After Greece and Cyprus we are the country most affected by the crisis in the fateful years of the recession of 2007 and 2008, with a reduction of gross domestic product by 10 points. This is far worse than the 1929 crisis with regard to our country, with a drop in consumption of eight percent, a decrease in investment and manufacturing production of 30 percent, and unemployment with peaks of 12-13 percent. Only in recent years have we had any further decreases in gross domestic product: 2.8% in 2012, 1.7 in 2013, 0.3 in 2014. This is the situation that the Government has begun to face after the elections of 2013 and after the horse care that the Italian economy, the Italian society all had to suffer in fact with the European Commissariat and with the Government of the technicians of Monti. This did not happen without political responsibility. I would like to remind the last speaker, who accused the Government of doing nothing, of wronging the recipe, that the crisis of those years has names and surnames. It was a center-right government, chaired by President Berlusconi, that brought the country into that condition. In recent years we have tried to climb a mountain to start again from that situation at a time when we are not in an economically positive situation at international and European level; indeed, the situation in Europe sees us opposed to the austerity recipes (against flexibility) that are carried out by the countries of Northern Europe, especially Germany. This morning I was reading the articles on the visit of the President of the German Central Bank, who still continues to pursue the idea of austerity policies as the only way to restore the budget and restart the economy. Here, from this situation we have divided, with this level of contrast and difficulty, and but today we can say that the country has come out of the tunnel because in this Document we read that in 2015 we had a result of 0.8% of growth of the gross domestic product. For the first time we have a consolidated data that reverses the trend: we have a positive sign and, compared to last year's DEF Update Note forecasts, the increase is only 0.1 percent. Therefore, the data that the Government inserts into the DEF are not contestable, put by those who want to paint a country that is not there; too optimistic data, as they have been defined in many interventions, but they are real data, because when the deviation in positive sign is only 0.1 percent it means that the Government inserts in the Document of economy and finance data absolutely real. There has been not only a recovery in gross domestic product but also in employment. Unemployment has fallen by 0.8 percentage points to 11.9% today. Of course, it is not enough yet, we have to move forward, but here too, for the first time, there is a positive sign due to government policies, to labour reforms. This is the only way to give job back to the unemployed, because they do not give work by denouncing that unemployment is the cancer of the country, especially in the South, but by investing and creating jobs. There has been a recovery in investment, a substantial recovery in consumption. Today we are a growing country and that is why we can have a more important role than what we have had in Europe for so many years. I conclude by saying that we can do this thanks to the reforms we have launched. We can also split up on the reforms, we have split up and we have discussed them, but we cannot deny them and none of us can dispute the fact that we have now moved from a stage when we were discussing the reforms to a stage when we approve and do the reforms. That is why we have a different view in Europe today, and that is why our President-in-Office of the Council - and I would like all those who have declared themselves against austerity and flexibility in recent years - calls for a different policy for Europe, no longer of austerity and with greater flexibility, which is also within this Economic and Financial Document. I think we're on the right track and the country is realizing that for the first time, we can do it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u49	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, I will not exercise myself in the unnecessary attempt to identify responsibilities and faults and to give domesticated or domesticated readings of the numbers related to the country's condition. Of course, I would like all of them to be irrefutably demonstrated and shared by my colleague, Mr Lucherini, just as I would like to see the level of consideration he is talking about and of which, in my opinion, unfortunately our country does not enjoy, neither in Europe, nor in the world, if it is true, as it is true, that we are victims of the arrogance of Franco-German agreements and agreements, also and above all on the commercial side; and if it is true, as it is unfortunately true, that the case of the Regeni and the case of the Marò remain irremediably black pages, that mortify the tricolor and that certainly do not indicate a level of international credibility that we would like to relaunch. The truth is that in Italy we have 1,300,000 minors living in a condition of severe deprivation and permanent discomfort. 11.5 percent of families are in absolute poverty. Firms are holding and continuing to close, under the blows of taxation that is not equal in Europe. In this context, which I consider alarming and which are not the only - as I will say shortly - to consider this, there is a South case that is increasingly at the bottom of all the growth rankings, but, unfortunately, first in all those related to unemployment, social hardship and structural inadequacy, cut off from the government's agenda, which does not present the masterplan for the Mezzogiorno and identifies the regions dividing them between those friends and those less friendly. All this if it is true that they are to be clarified the content, the purpose and the outcome of the letter that, just yesterday, the President of the Region Puglia has sent to the Prime Minister to know if, how and when the resources of the funds for the Mezzogiorno will be allocated and how much it will be to Apulia of what little that has remained after long, progressive and imposing cuts of resources that had been destined to the Regions of the South. Growth is clinging around the "zero comma." Ten percent of families even give up their care and, for the first time in the last ten years, even reduces the life expectancy of Italians. To tell us is precisely the report presented yesterday by Observatasalute, which identifies the cause of this reduction of life expectations in the ever-lower investments on the prevention side. On the other hand - we know - Italy is unfortunately a taillight in the world (but - I want to emphasize - not from today and not with this Government) as regards expenditure on prevention, which stands at 4.1 percent of the total health expenditure. As for the spending review on the public budget, it is a company that takes the photograph punctual and precise. The company tells us that in the next four years the exits from the coffers of the State will grow more and more, with a total increase of 22 billion euros, the public expenditure will increase from 826 to approximately 850 billion euros and the public investments will reduce of 7 billion euros. Illustrious colleagues, more outings must be paid more revenue. Who's gonna pay the bill? I think, once again, taxpayers will pay for it. Between 2016 and 2019 there will be a tax stagata of over 70 billion euros and will increase taxes both direct and indirect. In the first case, the Government estimates an increase of 11.8 billion euros; in the second case, an increase of 33.3 billion euros, equal to +13.39 percent. In short, in the next four years the taxes risk to increase progressively every year and the total revenue will exceed the quota of 855 billion euros regarding the 785 billion of 2015. Why do I give these numbers? These data, which come from reliable sources and institutional subjects, draw a picture that - unfortunately - still represents the identity of a country that is in a condition of serious difficulty. These are data that cannot be refuted. I put these numbers in line because nothing like the numbers can demonstrate the fragility and precariousness of the Document of economy and finance under consideration, taking in fact the government that tries - so it seems - to tell another truth. The government tells us about a country that has come out of economic stagnation for a single comma "zero" with the sign "more" and in which the companies have resumed to invest, the employment has returned with the positive sign and the families are better. Even on social networks they shoot videos about statements by the Prime Minister about the fact that Italian families have become rich. A country where people living within the area of hardship and poverty are decreasing and where no one takes their lives anymore when despair, unfortunately, prevails over hope. We really would like that to be the case, but that sense of despair, anguish and anxiety is still in the country. It is not just a question of optimism or pessimism about newspaper headlines and what is said in TV talk shows: it is the situation of written suffering in the daily history of people who can no longer make it. The Parliamentary Budget Office, the Bank of Italy, the ISTAT and the Court of Auditors tell a different Italy from what is read in the DEF and in the words of reassurance that we have recently heard from the President of the Council, also in this House. At the hearings of the representatives of these institutions, we saw the government's propaganda dismantled almost unanimously. We have listened to calls for caution to stress that the slowness with which Italy grows would lead to exposure to risk, with particular reference to the sterilization of safeguard clauses that, although acceptable, generates - it is said - ambiguity and uncertainty, because it is not supported by a credible policy of reform, cutting unproductive public expenditure and contextual measures to contain accounts. In short, the document before us is a document that risks being deprived of the necessary reliability and credibility in the prospect of economic and financial policy lines. There is no prudent attitude on the part of the government. The indications contained in the DEF are uncertain, all the more so in view of the recent statements made by the President-in-Office of the Council, also in this House, regarding the desire to reduce the tax burden: a necessary objective, acceptable, to be supported, but achievable under other conditions and under different conditions. We, as the Group of Conservatives and Reformists, have been calling for this road for some time, but at the same time we have indicated, also through the amending activity, the way of its indispensable expenditure cover for the cut to be possible. Instead, in this case, the tax cut is evoked without providing persuasive clarification. It is the Court of Auditors, in particular, who points out that in order to cut taxes - which are necessary and no longer deferred - we must put in place a structural reform of the tax system; structural reforms which the government pretends to do, when it does, also helped by a majority that often disagrees outside this House, but which, in fact, consents to it internally, through support for measures that are absolutely doubtful if not poor effectiveness, starting with those on the school, in order to continue with the policies of employment and pensions. The Court of Auditors itself suggests the way to cut taxes: the extension of the tax base, the re-visiting of the redistributive objectives assigned to the levy systems, the search for effective coordination of the tax burden between levels of government. Instead, we see a systematic discharge of barrels between Government, Regions and Municipalities that produces the boomerang effect. This is the proof - I quote again - of the ping-pong case of letters and mutual accusations between Renzi and Emiliano. Thus, the tax burden remained 2.5 percentage points higher than the average recorded in the decade before the sovereign debt crisis. A separate speech deserves health care. We are faced with a document that leaves unresolved some important issues regarding the sustainability of the health system, together with the need to maintain the balance between guarantees to citizens and the organisation of the offer, with the aim of making public spending on sustainable health without prejudice to the quality of services and the fairness of access to care. Not only that: contradictions are amplified, which basically include voices such as human resources in a phantom spending review, instead of putting them among the investment items and, playing between spending and financing, waste is not excluded, while essential levels of assistance are lowered and in some regions are even compromised, responding to logics that reduce health to a pure and simple aggregate of any goods and services. Starting at the conclusion I announce my intention to hand over the full text of my speech to be annexed to the documents, highlighting that we expected more in the merit of a document that is of strategic importance in the context of the overall design of the policies of the country. And much more was expected - let me say this - also in the working method. When we talk about such delicate goods, we must recover the principle of responsibility by learning the language of truth in the Chamber and in the institutional fora. Through the correct analysis of the difficult economic situation, politics can, regardless of the dispute between parties and between coalitions, find a way that connects it to the country, in a virtuous logic and recovery of credibility, but that is also able to draw a perspective destined to the recovery of trust and hope. This is a missed opportunity to tell the Italians the truth and to give them a serious and credible development perspective, built with a sense of responsibility. On the other hand, the conscious underestimation and the irrepressible vocation to propaganda prevail: it is a pity that for Italy and for Italians both are useless. [[Applause from Senators D'Anna and Liuzzi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u51	The Presidency shall authorise it to deposit the written text of its speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u52	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u53	Mr President, in the minutes at my disposal I would like to bring to the attention of this House two issues which I consider to be fundamental within the DEF. The first concerns the issue of network infrastructure and broadband. The government had approved the operational program of the ultra-wide band plan, announced as always by the Prime Minister with special effects and ultraviolet colors, and had been allocated €2.2 billion from the Development and Cohesion Fund. It seemed to us to be an important step for a country like ours which is facing serious delays in this area. In the committee on the subject, the hearing was held by Mr Starace, the CEO of ENEL, to whom the Government has in fact subcontracted this operation. It seems very clear to us what needs to be done, but there is a problem precisely in the Government, which does not have very clear where it wants to go and what it wants to do. For some time now, we have been trying to make it clear by various actions that we could find ourselves with a major problem in the not too distant future. There are important and substantial resources that can be made available, but there are too many issues to which the Government cannot respond; and this is also being urged by the operators. We run a risk because the government is not a director, it does not play its role through the broadband broadcasting committee, which should monitor this important operation; confusion reigns and operators are not happy; there is no register of networks. We want to put fiber optics in the country, but we don't know how much fiber optics there is, how much of this - as is technically said - is off (because the truth is this) and how to design a network in the country when you don't know what we have under our feet. There's no directing. After the years of " Telecom darkness" (I would call them so), in which important investments have been made, the result is a Neolithic country with regard to the broadband system. In addition to having a generational gap within our company, we are paying heavily for choices made in an unusual way compared to our European partners by Telecom, which unfortunately we still discount today. The government should really make an effort, which it doesn't. You subcontracted the matter to ENEL, as I said, in addition to having subcontracted it also the collection of the RAI fee (but we will talk about this again) and there is really the risk of finding ourselves again in a few years with even two overlapping networks, still an incumbent as we had before, that it will not create that network that we hope to have so much, that is a free network with equal access by all operators. We'll see, like we said several times. Let us come to the second point, that of public works and infrastructure. I have to say one thing to the Deputy Minister; he has won the Padoan line, according to which privatisations are aimed at reducing public debt and not, as Minister Delrio says, an opportunity - I am referring to the railways - to relaunch and develop them. I must say, however, that today Delrio we will call him "pinocchio" for a very simple fact; on the DEF there is one thing that leaves us very perplexed and leaves us bitter in the mouth, because last year we asked the Minister that in addition to the famous 25 works, the only ones inserted as strategic works of the Country, there was really a programming on which to debate, including the works that are in place with program agreements with Regions and Municipalities. It was promised, but it is not, because there is no attached infrastructure as it is also written in the report on the state of play of the 25 works, where it is stated that for investments in transport there is no provision for the processing of a new annex infrastructure to the DEF. This is for a very simple reason; it is Renzi's strategy. You do not write names and surnames of the works, so that you can then choose in a discretionary way. Renzi will be able to manage the works in a discretionary way, but - it happens - and we still say it today, so it will remain in the proceedings, in the 25 works we have once again found the tramway of Florence. This tramway is certainly strategic in the general framework of the country's major infrastructure works. I also tried, Mr. Deputy Minister (but I couldn't find her), among the 25 works perhaps the most important one, the Gotthard tunnel, which the President of the Council wanted to sell the other day. I didn't find her. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Maybe it's not ours, they do it in Switzerland and they pay for it. Of course, however, some of the 40 million voters think that we have also taught those who are masters of infrastructure in Europe. This is Renzi's strategy: to tell a lot of lies. We've come to the point of being so shameless. I was really hoping that with Minister Delrio, who has come to the Commission several times with all the good intentions, saying that he had even talked about iron treatment for the country's infrastructure, there was really a change of pace. We really wanted to have a list of serious works to do in this country, deleting those that were described - and here we agree - the past years in the objective law that had become the dream book in fact, and really writing the name and surname of those on which, as the Prime Minister always says, we invest resources, we make projects that are realized. The truth, Mr President, is that it will end up being ridiculous. You have also filled your mouth on the issue of the reform of the procurement code, saying it will be a revolution. Yes, a revolution in order to die in ridicule, because always within the discretion the works will go to cover up because you have inserted, in a very clumsy way, the question of the public debate regarding the infrastructures, so byzantine and distorted that it will go to cover up the public works. This is a choice that certainly gives a helping hand to the will of this Government to want to do the works with discretion, without programming on the territory, with an absolutely short-sighted vision, never seen in this country that already does not shine with regard to public works. I always remember, however, that there are serious regions and provinces (or what has been) that make programming on the territory and that want to build it seriously. On the part of the government, however, another line was adopted that I had honestly never seen in the years of the greatest delirium of the objective law. We will see, however one thing is certain: on this Document it is written that you will not present the Annex infrastructure, as has been promised, therefore Delrio we will no longer call him by his name, but by that of Pinocchio. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u54	Senator Casaletto is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this year many knots are coming to the comb and there will be no Juncker plan to save us. Invoking the European Union, they want to take away our savings, rights and democracy. The European Union under construction is inexorably impoverishing us, regardless of the existence of our micro-enterprises, which is refractory to recognizing our typicality, but ready to stick as soon as it realizes that we have not done our homework. A European Union in which we Italians have a member of the Government who, obviously, instead of protecting our interests, seems to be too prone to Brussels' wishes, although there are many examples of how the Member States often disregard the decisions of the European Commission. To some extent the DEF and the economic policy underlying it represent well the position of the Government: we wait for growth, then we see what to do. The measures in favour of companies have been implemented: the market and companies know what to do. If new financial spaces, e.g. a reduction in interest rates related to the service of public debt, are opened up, pro-cyclical measures can be envisaged. The DEF reduces public policy to a simple framework of phenomena. The government is convinced that economic growth will come, it takes patience. As soon as growth becomes apparent, all public finance operations will become plausible and politically sustainable. According to the Premier and Minister for Economic Development, taxes have decreased and will continue to do so. The attitude is typical of neo-liberal policies: only the reduction of taxes can make the economy grow, with an act of faith and confidence in the market and in the disproportionate enterprises. If growth does not happen, it means that taxes have been reduced too little or that the labour market has not been sufficiently flexible. Too bad. Meanwhile, the quantitative easing of Draghi and the drop in the price of oil per barrel took place. If the reduction in Italian labour costs is close to that of the peripheral countries of the European Union, the modest contribution of exports to GDP growth conceals something more worrying. What the Government carefully hides is Italy's distance from average European growth, which over the years has consolidated and then expanded. If the quantitative easing and depreciation of oil are positive for the growth (if it is true in absolute), a reduction in the price of oil could also have a negative effect on the demand of the countries that export it and on the development of renewable technologies and it is equally true that the benefits are horizontal and apply to all countries. Perhaps a problem of structure the country really has to deal with it, unlike the structural reforms that always intervene in the margins of a given productive system. Italy's difficulty in hooking up economic growth to the extent of other countries gives structural reforms a weight-value in truth almost salvific. On the employment side, there is no great difference: only consumption and investment are an improvement which is not compatible, however, with the development of employment itself. How can consumption increase if the employment rate remains stable below the European average? Obviously something does not work in the model used: either reforms increase GDP and thus improve public finances, or GDP growth is uncertain. The path taken, however, is that of cuts in public expenditure or the resulting safeguard clause, which reduce aggregate demand and thus GDP. In fact, the aim of the European monetary unit (then, cascade, of the economic policies of the eurozone countries) is to transfer to the labour market the normal adjustment of external shocks, which usually occurs in the rest of the world through the adjustment of the exchange rate. Therefore, the European Union and the eurozone, unable to give up the value of the currency, have given up the value of wages and, therefore, the European countries of the South have become deflation. The government sold many Italian jewels with very little profits; not even Amato in 1992 had done so much and we know how it ended, but then at least it was well defined an industrial policy, albeit poorly shared. Thinking about reducing debt by privatising is now a well-established lie. The intentions of this economic policy are now clear: market logics must replace the social state and the Constitutions, leading to the squeeze of labour incomes in European states. [[Applause from Senators Barozzino and De Pin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u56	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in five minutes it is certainly not possible to comment on the Economic and Financial Document and I think it makes sense to make a brief summary of the state of the art, which Vice-Minister Morando certainly knows and has the urge to face. The statement is iconic: we are a country in canvas pants. We are a country in which the first four items of expenditure, which absorb almost everything we can spend, are represented by pensions, salaries to the 3.5 million employees of the state, 111 billion euros from health care and 80 billion euros from interest payments on the 2,200 billion euros of debt. These are the limits and areas within which the Government, whatever Government, must move. Therefore, without this consideration on the effective economic and financial consistency of the State, any criticism becomes artificial, just as every praise becomes a pious one. How do you get out of this condition? Certainly not with the decimals of the forecasts of the deficit-GDP ratio (expected at 2.8%), certainly not by making small adjustments on the various chapters of expenditure, certainly not getting more flexibility from the European Union, but by convincing us all, all those who have responsibilities in the various institutions of the country, that the nation needs deep reforms of the organization, the function and the tasks assigned to the state. So far we have had a government that has shyly overlooking the reformist season, obviously bearing in mind that it has inherited fifty years of state management through the lever of spending and increasing debt. It is therefore a policy that I would dare to call Keynesian - if I may say so - in which the State in itself becomes who accompanies us from the cradle to the coffin. The state itself becomes the largest capitalist in this nation with its approximately 10,000 participants making 43 billion euros in debt. I come then to the first question that I ask myself and that I ask Deputy Minister Morando: when will you pull out of the drawer the Cookarelli plan? When will we send home those about 40,000 members of the board of directors of these decoction industries and participate by the state? When will we ultimately and irreversibly take the liberal turn in the institutions and give the free market of competition the opportunity to permeate not only the economy, but also all areas of state intervention? I say this because, if it was easy and convenient for previous generations of state leaders to recognize rights and please contemporaries (who vote and protest) to charge the cost to posterity (who do not vote and do not protest), this is no longer allowed to us. Europe does not allow us to do this, the strict constraints that the European Union has placed on Italy's shoulders; the EUR 2,200 billion in debt does not allow us to do so. Mr. Deputy Minister, there is then an obligatory way: to place the criterion of third measurement of productivity, efficiency and cost-benefit within each state context. It is clear that, since professional clients make voters, this can only lead to a weakening of consent to the Government. Since we live the era of political jackaling and hatred in permanent and effective service, we waste time following the moralist and bizarre thesis of those who think that a State under these conditions can be saved to the cry of honesty, honesty, almost as if honesty, in itself, did grace to those who govern a country of 60 million people of the duty to have the ability to choose between models of state that are alternative. The Socialist State dies of socialism; the Socialist State dies of State participation, monopolies, disservices and even corruption. We are here, therefore, to approve yet another warm cloth. It is not the fault of Morando, but of a mentality that tends to permeate the Italian political class. We must change the state model by letting the economy loose, which is not the place of the laissez-faire because the free market takes place within rules. When they asked Karl Popper when liberalism would be applied in the Soviet Union as soon as the Berlin Wall fell, he replied: we will apply it as soon as we have a state and institutions able to give rules and laws to this state within which competition can take place. Mr. Deputy Minister, I therefore give you my kind abstention from the judgment because you manage what you have inherited. Therefore, we will judge it more on the prospects than on the arid predictions of the decimals contained in the DEF.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u58	We greet the students and teachers of the Scuola Medio Statale (Scuola Medio Statale) (Don Pino Puglisi) in Monsano, in the province of Ancona, visiting the Senate. Thank you for your presence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u59	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the DEF is not only a Forecast Document, but also a photograph of what has been done. I think it is worth mentioning three main figures: the cost of labour has decreased, employment has increased and the country has grown with a positive balance of 0.8%. Growth is due to the courage of many entrepreneurs, the desire of Italians to roll up their sleeves and leave behind the hard years of the crisis, but it is also thanks to the Government and Parliament, who have been able to implement, as we are reminded by a punctual analysis published in "Il Sole 24 Ore" at more than half of the reforms that have been approved at this time. This must be acknowledged by the Commission and the majority. Today Italy seems to have finally left behind the worst years of a very hard crisis that - let us not forget - has concerned the whole Western world (to find precedents we must go back to the times of the Great Depression of 1929). Of course, 0.8 percent of growth is just the shy beginning of a long way to make Italians feel that the worst is behind them, that the future is not a threat but can be again an opportunity. In this sense I appreciated the words and courage that the President of the Council has repeatedly spent on this, not least during the examination of the motion of no confidence here in the Senate last week. I agree with him that this must be the season of courage and responsibility. It seems to me an act of great responsibility towards the country the prudential attitude of the Government both on the numbers contained in the DEF and on the fact that those that are indicated as the main levers of the growth - I am talking about the resumption of the domestic consumption and the increase of the export of our companies - could not manage alone to reach the intended objective (+1.2%). All this suggests the working pattern of the next few months. The DEF, not by chance, gives priority to two macrotypes of intervention: new public investment and the reduction of the tax burden on households and businesses. I would add a third: policies that encourage the entrepreneurial fabric to focus on innovation, research, quality and promotion of our products. Only in this way will we be able to increase the weight of Made in Italy on international markets and, at the same time, push companies to invest, thus also favoring the lever of domestic consumption. In this respect, one of the major issues to be solved is bureaucratic simplification, because bureaucracy continues to be, for many companies, especially small ones, a real hidden tax or, in any case, a brake for a full development of their potential, as well as, of course, a very high cost for public coffers. On this issue, which is one of the notes from the European Union to our country, on the objectives of bureaucratic simplification of the DEF, I believe that the effort must be much greater, so that the positive effects, in terms of GDP, are achieved well before 2020 with regard to 0.4% and 0.8% in 2030. We must do it sooner, with more courage, with more strength. At the same time, it is necessary to focus on those measures that are capable of building virtuous circuits, from which all the actors involved - from the citizen-consumer, to businesses, to the treasury - benefit. Just to give a very concrete example, I think it is significant that this House has approved, with the approval of the Government, motions calling for the fiscal incentives on ecobonus to stabilize for the next three years. This is a measure which, given the hand, has produced important results also on the ground of increased tax revenue. I and other colleagues have also asked for other measures, and I hope that the debate that has been announced will produce substantial measures. We need to focus more on investment, credit to businesses that want to grow, bank guarantees; Today, unfortunately, the system does not help companies that want to invest. The resources used on investment produce income, promote consumption and increase tax revenue. In this sense, we also welcome the mention made by the DEF to the self-employment partner and the measure, now under consideration by the Chamber's Finance Committee, for the reform of the trust system: two more necessary devices than ever for a credit policy that takes into account the transformations of our productive fabric and the needs of the many small and medium-sized companies that today want to bet on their growth. In essence, I believe that public investment and the reduction of the fiscal pressure indicated by the Government should be included in an overall reasoning, with its internal coherence, with a logic of political direction; otherwise the risk, as has been demonstrated several times in the past, is that these measures disperse without achieving the desired effects. Just to give an example, last Wednesday a delegation of the Parliamentary Intergroup for the development of the mountain and the UNCEM had a meeting with President Mattarella, who showed sensitivity and attention to the delicate situation in which the mountain territories and their enterprises are located and to the difficulties resulting from a bureaucracy calibrated for the flat enterprises, which does not take into account the specificities of a territory where commercial enterprises, in order to survive and guarantee essential services, must be able to focus on multifunctionality or where, for example, part-time farmers must be protected, because they avoid the neglect of a territory that plays a fundamental role against the hydrogeological failure. On this still too little has been done and I will never tire of asking for the most promised connected on the mountain. On the macroeconomic data reported in the DEF, starting with those on debt and on the path towards budgetary balance, on the one hand we can only find that Italy, in recent years, has worked to meet the expectations of Europe, in whose eyes we are a country finally stable and finally reliable. But it is also true that it is no longer time for austerity policies. As some commentators have pointed out, the real point of the issue is that domestic policies are accompanied by action and a European strategy for growth and recovery, that is, budgetary flexibility that opens up real spaces for a reduction in the tax burden and that can really be perceived as such by citizens. That is the real point. The European decision to reduce the flexibility of the reform and investment clauses is important; it is less understandable to limit its cumulative effect to 0.75 per cent of GDP, as well as the fact that the scope of exceptional circumstances does not include the costs incurred for security, migration and the fight against terrorism. On the other hand, I welcome another initiative, which has just been taken by Italy, to introduce the gradual transition from the structural deficit to the evolution of public expenditure, with the aim of making the Stability Pact more effective, but also more transparent in the eyes of the European public. The real point is that there is still no change at European level that is necessary to abandon the austerity season. There are still too timid signals, also in the face of uncertainties linked to oil price developments and the exchange rate of the euro. It is clear that, with these assumptions and with this uncertainty about the accounts and estimates, the next law of stability will have to be built around a strong principle and the direction that is being given to the country for the next few years, knowing that only with less bureaucracy and only with strong solicitations to innovation and investments our economic fabric will be able to become fully to the function that this DEF in some way calls it. But now is the time to push on the accelerator, precisely because of the turbulence and unknowns that are seen on the horizon. Among these, we cannot underestimate what is happening at the Brenner with the closure of the borders both for its economic aspects and for the symbolic ones, the port of which is devastating. There is, for my part and for our Group, full recognition for what has been done so far by this Government. In an internal, European and international situation that is not easy at all, the country has been put on the right track; it was not a obvious fact and of this absolutely must be taken into account. Once again we are faced with a decisive step and we must do as much as possible. I think there's no other way. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Dalla Zuanna]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u61	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u62	Mr President, I believe that it is my particular duty to address this debate and to make this speech with a focused view on one of the issues that I believe is valuable in relation to the necessary initiatives that need to be taken. These initiatives do not only concern the activity of the Government, but concern the more comprehensive activity of the institutional, political, economic and social system of this country, so that they may finally be addressed, as at other times they have tried to do, even if with little results (in view of the condition of difficulty in which the Mezzogiorno of Italy and the islands still fall), the problem of the particular condition of development difficulties that suffer our southern regions and the islands. In fact - it is an opinion not only mine, but shared by many colleagues and also others who work within the framework of the economic initiative - I consider decisive for the country and its ability to produce and build elements and prospects of stable development to overcome this divergence between a Centre-North that goes at a certain speed and a Mezzogiorno and the islands that, instead, suffer so many difficulties. On this subject it is worth considering employment and unemployment rates. From this point of view, ISTAT has done an excellent job, depicting Italy in two maps, one with the employment rate and the other with the unemployment rate, colored with shades of green in the first case and with shades of yellow and red in the second case. In this way we see not one, but two Italies: an Italy goes from Rome up and is colored of green more and more and with employment rates ranging from 54 to 71 percent and beyond; another Italy goes from Rome down and has employment rates ranging from 35 to over 53 percent. This means that there are parts of Italy where the employment rate is less than half that of other parts of Italy. This has a worrying spread. The living condition of the populations living where employment rates are below 53% is very different from that of the communities living in areas where rates are above. Unemployment rates are exactly the same as employment rates. In the same maps we find situations where unemployment rates are physiological and represent the time needed to change jobs (but work is always there), but also situations in the Mezzogiorno of Italy where those who lose their jobs do not regain them anymore and are destined for a life of assistance and poverty. Mr President, I am saying this because we have tried to think about what is needed. We have also tried in the course of the debate on the last financial manoeuvre, saying that the problem of the Mezzogiorno is central and that we must make a territorial rebalancing operation. It concerns the system of infrastructure and the heavy phenomena of school dispersal; it concerns the need to counter the illiteracy of return, to intervene on processes of savage deindustrialization and total dismantling of the productive apparatus, to recover the value of local development and to exploit resources (which are also in the Mezzogiorno of Italy and which must be exploited). It also concerns the productive vocations of a part of Italy (which are different from those we find in other territories of our country and Europe) and finally, Mr President, it concerns a different approach to environmental policies. We must recover vast, compromised territories, which are the result of pollution, the most diverse. In Sardinia we have them all: we have all the theatres of environmental pollution, from the military one (present in the polygons), to the building one (due to the intensity of the constructions above all on the coasts), to the one of quarries and mines, to the one relative to the industrial activity, especially steel (which has left so many trascichi and that today is substantially abandoned and closed, with business disputes that continue constantly). I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that we are going to present a motion for a resolution on this subject, which does not open any controversy with the Government, but invites it to address this issue with an organic plan of interventions that can change the state of things in favour of those communities, those territories and those populations. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u63	Senator Castaldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u64	Mr President, it would take ten seconds, to sum up, to illustrate the dynamic of the DEF: GDP growth in 2016 revised downwards; debt-to-GDP ratio falling less than expected; officialisation - although between the lines - of the need for an adjustment of almost 2 billion public accounts; demand to the European Union for other flexibility, for the beauty of 11 billion euros, also for 2017. Renzi in the DEF reduces estimates of economic growth for the three-year period 2016-2018 and revises the increase in real GDP, which falls to 1.2% compared to the flagship 1.6%. The economic scenario, in practice, is becoming increasingly fragile. In fact, Italy is asking Europe to be able to increase its deficit by 11 billion compared to expected. The Government reviews business support policies, from measures that rely on access to credit, to measures related to investment support through tax relief and dedicated incentives. To make Italian companies more competitive, it is essential to stimulate spending on research and innovation. As a matter of fact, the Government does not indicate specific measures to strengthen, or speed up already planned interventions, as in the case of the National Research Programme. There are no improvements in order to increase the effectiveness of the PNR, which refers to the Italian manufacturing plan, to the aggregation through a business network, to the famous masterplan, which should be a strength and vitality for the economic fabric of the Mezzogiorno, which, to date, has no other tools, except the masterplan, to aim at a reduction of territorial imbalances. However, the last Stability Act provided for the possibility of extending the contribution relief for new recruits for the South of Italy, which was not available in the PNR. According to what Minister Padoan announced in May, with the zeroing of the capital gain tax, with support for the investments of unlisted companies and with the reductions on the countervailable profits, we should have a huge (0.2%) boost of GDP: we will see. In the DEF, however, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are mentioned a few, very few times. Something is done for the most innovative and newly born ones - the startups - but in fact the attention is directed to a tiny minority of this Italian heritage, which the DEF erroneously continues to call small and medium-sized enterprises, excluding micro-enterprises also from the Italian industrial nomenclature; an indifference that puts sadness and which has been going on for years. Renzi - as both Monti and Letta did - insists not to present, as is its obligation, the bill for small businesses. Yet so much could be done for small ones, who suffer heavily from the damage of the regulatory environment, the scene of an embarrassing favoritism towards large companies. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Economic Development has always been totally prone to large companies and the Renzi Government, as recent judicial chronicles have clearly highlighted, is no less; indeed, with Trivellopoli seems to be in pole position. Renzi, too, is in fact obnubated by the interests of large enterprises and the cold European dictates: as much as the two previous governments or perhaps more, to him, who to this day is the interim minister of economic development, must be charged with the unravelling of the Italian business base, which is now in the eyes of all of us daily. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u65	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u66	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in order to understand the reliability of the forecast level of the Document in our examination, I compared the DEFs prepared by the Renzi Government during the years of its mandate. The analysis of the main indicators reported (net debt, gross public debt and nominal GDP) is disregarded compared to the forecasts made in the first DEF presented in April 2014. The net debt, which should have touched the zero value between 2017 and 2018 as indicated by that Document, would have reached that level towards the end of 2019, that is, two and a half years later, precisely assessing the proposal contained in the Document at our examination. With regard to the debt-to-GDP ratio, the target considered as a 120% security target set by the DEF 2014 for 2018, now falls to 2019 and is 3.8 points higher than that forecast. Both of these indicators have been able to move away from the European rules of the Stability and Growth Pact thanks to the flexibility clauses required and, not always easily obtained, to the European Commission. However, the increase in deficit and debt, both in percentage values and in absolute values, has not been sufficient to support the growth of nominal gross domestic product, creating an additional mountain of higher expenditure. Compared to expectations, GDP grew by 18.4 billion in 2016, 29.9 billion in 2017 and 34.4 billion in 2018. With this in mind, which is absolutely objective, there are further doubts as to the validity of the policies that the Government intends to pursue in the new policy framework. Compared to the trend, the programmatic GDP will fall by 2.9 billion in 2017 and will return to rise, but only by 500 million euros, in 2018, and by 3.8 billion in 2019. Moreover, estimates of GDP growth in 2016 really seem to be too optimistic, when compared with a plurality of independent forecasts and as many also pointed out during the hearings. As a result, all expectations on other indicators related to GDP (in particular on deficit and debt) are at a high risk of unreliable. Certainly, both for 2017 and 2018, the deviation on the deficit does not fall within the framework of compliance with the parameters of the Stability and Growth Pact, while the debt rule is disregarded in all three years considered. Evaluating the reality expressed by the numbers, the action of the Renzi Government (three maneuvers for a total of 76 billion, which include the bill no. 66 and the two laws of stability) was not only useless, but even detrimental to the development of the country. According to estimates of the Bank of Italy's quarterly model, GDP growth would have been negative until the end of 2017, in the absence of the European Central Bank's expansionary monetary policies. Even quantitative easing, with an injection of liquidity now reaching 80 billion per month, has helped to mitigate the negative effects of the low growth of emerging countries and has tried to induce an indispensable recovery of inflation. It is absolutely important that the action of the European Central Bank has also helped to reduce the burden on Italian public debt. The lower interest paid on government bonds gave the country's economy € 10.6 billion (respectively € 3.2 billion in 2014, € 5.9 billion in 2015 and € 1.5 billion this year). The Italian entrepreneurs who have brought back the capitals owned abroad through the voluntary disclosure, donated 3.6 billion to the action of the Government; 11 billion then derive from higher taxes charged to the citizens; and almost 43 billion of greater net indebtedness have been used to cover the measures adopted in the three years 2014-2016. Here, in a few lines and in a nutshell, the Renzi government numbers and the legacy that will leave to those who will take their place. Among the measures proposed for 2017 there are no effective cuts to the majestic public administration machine. The spending review, however never really implemented by the government in office, has so far been done by blows of mannaia focusing on the services provided to the citizens by Regions, Provinces and Municipalities (we are talking about about 7 billion) and only for a small part with cuts to the expenses of the central state. It should be remembered that many measures have temporary cover that could trigger between 2017 and 2019 safeguard clauses for a total of 56 billion, with increases in excise duty and VAT. Moreover, the safeguard clauses are programmatically deactivated, but there is no clear indication of how this decommissioning will take place. To those who think of making a new maneuver by cutting tax expenditures I would just like to remind you that, in reality, they are tax breaks. In addition, outside of any accounting games, I say to myself - to remind all my colleagues - that a cut in tax expenditures (175 billion in total) is equivalent to an increase in the tax burden. This policy of increasing taxes and controls is already leading to the closure of a considerable number of small businesses. Tax compliance (i.e. tax loyalty) can only be demanded when the tax system is fair and fair, otherwise there is a risk of transforming the Revenue Agency and the companies delegated to the compulsory collection of taxes into persecutors of companies. In the country we see the proliferation of bureaucracy even in marginal areas of our economy and this increase is pushing out of the production system many business realities. Given that the greatest recovery between 2014 and 2015, through co-active collection, generates a positive result of just 250 million euros, it is clear that the real problem of this country is not evasion but bureaucracy and its cost. On this issue too, however, the Government has no strategy. To those who say that there is no more room for cutting government spending, I would like to remind you that the lack of simplifications in public administration have a cost on our production system of more than 30 billion each year. With a lighter state, every euro of charges removed from Italian companies can be reinvested by the same in research, development, tools and technological modernizations; in short in economic activities, essentially in jobs. The number of civil servants is equal to 3.2 million (one out of seven workers in Italy), at a cost of more than 160 billion per annum. The cases of absenteeism at the Municipality of Sanremo, in a museum in Rome, at the police station in Rimini, at the Pistoia Prefecture, at the ASL in Avellino, at the hospital in Salerno have indicated that there are dependents to sanction disciplinaryly or criminally (this is an obvious), but they have mainly evidenced that there are organic plants composed of pletoric numbers, destined to feed useless bureaucracy. Intermediate consumption expenditure is 132 billion. Since we are considering a programming document, measures can be envisaged which, without causing a negative impact on GDP, provide for a gradual reduction of the grey areas of expenditure. I'd like to give one last little thought to the jobs act. Minister Padoan has revealed to us that his Chinese counterpart praised our jobs act, but I would like to remind our Minister that the Chinese unemployment rate is 4%. The consideration is that opportunities to create new jobs do not come from market reform: companies take on if they have real growth prospects, not if they get momentary or partial tax benefits to hire. In conclusion, in the DEF under discussion we are given the usual contradictory and uncertain economic policy of the Government, which abandons in academic macroeconomic assessments on the procyclicality or anticyclicality of the measures to be taken and which continues to get lost in assessments if those to be taken are expansionary or restrictive measures. THE DEF that we would have liked to read and that our citizens also expected should have proposed solutions based not on the usual optimistic forecasts of the Government, but on realistic, concrete and responsible proposals that could finally face and solve the real problems of our country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u67	She is registered to speak Senator Zanoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u68	Mr President, Senators and Senators, many aspects of the DEF have already been addressed by my colleagues, but I would still like to highlight three issues, the first of which concerns the neutralization of the safeguard clause, which many have mentioned, and on which I would like to highlight a number of points. The DEF 2016 continues the economic planning strategy of recent years, whose objective is to boost growth and employment. After three consecutive years of contraction, the Italian economy started to grow again in 2015, but the signs of recovery are still weak and uncertain, also for the international economic framework. So it is good for the Government to propose to sterilize the safeguard clauses, which would become operational in 2017 and which would represent 0.9% of GDP: it is a courageous proposal that absorbs a large amount of resources of the maneuver but goes in the right direction and continues the programming set up already in 2015. It is a maneuver, so to speak, with a low communicative impact on the population, which does not have a direct effect on it, because it is a question of not applying a tax measure in anticipation, but we know that it would certainly have negative effects on the recovery of domestic demand. In any case, it is also a good answer to those who thought last year that, after sterilizing the safeguard clauses for 2016, we would not be able to do so in the years to follow. Even the cover we spotted last year was criticized, but we did it and we're gonna make it this year. Let's come to the second point: the forecast capacity of this Government and the DEFs that has no equal compared to all previous Governments of this last period. I quote and quote specifically the words of the Court of Auditors, because the hearings have been drawn a little here and there this morning: Compared to a year ago, the recovery in the Italian economy actually materialized and unemployment began to decline, so that GDP growth in the average of the year was broadly in line with forecasts. And again: Italy emerged from the recession in 2015 and GDP increased by 0.8 as expected. The change in nominal terms exceeded expectations of 1.5% and debt stood at 2.6 in terms of product. These are important results. The results are achieved by the ability to implement policies that are capable of achieving the objectives set, but also by knowing how to prudently define them, taking into account assessments, such as those of the Parliamentary Budget Office, an independent support body, which also produced a report this year which, in addition to being mandatory, is also extremely useful. I quote from this report: The trend macroeconomic framework appears, for growth and inflation variables, to be broadly in line with the forecasts of the UPB Panel. This is the synthesis of their work. Then there are all the attentions of the case, but the indications of the government align in general near the upper limit of the interval provided by the estimates, but still within the range identified. Following the analysis, the Parliamentary Budget Office sent its letter on 1 April validating the trend macroeconomic forecasts for 2016-2019. In addition, on 18 April it also validated the 2016-2019 macroeconomic policy framework, published in the DEF, and forwarded its outcome to the MEF. Only a mention of local autonomy: the ANCI, in the hearings on the DEF, expressed a positive overall assessment of the Economic and Financial Document. This does not mean that all the problems have been solved with the autonomy - on the subject I always insist on the need for a comprehensive review of the financing system of the local self-governments in order to give them full autonomy - but the ANCI has certainly expressed itself in favorable terms. I conclude, Mr President, with the conviction that the 2016 DEF will also focus its objectives on boosting growth and employment. It will depend on the capacity of the Government, but also on that of all of us in ensuring the detail of these lines in the stability law of 2017. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u69	The debate is closed. I inform you that you have received the Presidency on the Report, pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012, the motion for a resolution No 100 tabled by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller. The Presidency has also received motions for resolutions nos. 1, presented by Senator De Petris and other Senators, 2, presented by Senators Uras and Stefano, 3, presented by Senator Catalfo and other Senators, 4, presented by Senator Bonfrisco and other Senators, 5, presented by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller, 6 presented by Senator Romani Paolo and other Senators, 7 presented by Senator Comaroli and other Senators, and 8 presented by Senator Ruvolo and other Senators. The lyrics are in distribution. Replicas will take place in the afternoon session. I shall therefore refer the document back to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u72	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and above all citizens, I would like to send out a signal of serious danger of environmental disaster, of very significant proportions. We're talking about drinking water pollution. We are talking about the second water basin in Europe, which has been declared of Community interest by the European Union, and is located in a place called Oliero, near Asiago, in the province of Vicenza. What's the danger? Someone has been sufficiently prudent - I do not want to use other adjectives - to allow first, then build and complete a large landfill, called Melagon, which contains waste of all kinds, including waste from Marghera. The problem is that this dump is located above a mountain, at 1,100 meters high, to be exact; and that it is a karst mountain, which is a gruvier and which of course is subjected to a process of erosion and consummation. It is a mountain that will of course constantly worsen its state and, at a certain point, collapse, therefore, even if not wanting to predict very small earthquakes or phenomena of failure, we will arrive at a point where the roof, on which this landfill is placed, will collapse and the waste will fall inside the mountain and arrive at this basin, which is the second largest in Europe and which can give 300 liters of water per day for four million Italians. I repeat: we have a huge dump on a mountain that is a gruvier and that could fatally let waste spill inside it. The press has begun to talk about this following my question on this subject, 4-05696. I am aware of this, because this is a very serious danger. We already have the chemical pollution of Venetian waters for perfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS), chemicals that are endocrine disruptors and have devastating effects, now we have the problem of these already exhausted landfills that need reclamation if we want to avoid tomorrow a disaster announced. Let's not say we didn't know.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-615.ana.u73	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13 p.m.
