ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 15 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u4	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly]] Ladies and gentlemen, last 16 September, the Senator for Life, President emeritus of the Republic, Carlo Azeglio Ciampi, was missing. His figure will be solemnly commemorated by the Senate, in the presence of the family, at a next session in which will be retraced the most significant moments of his action at the service of the republican institutions, both as manager, Governor of the Bank of Italy, and as a man of Government and Head of State. I am sure that I express the sentiments of all of you in addressing President Ciampi's family, in particular to his beloved wife, Mrs Franca, to her children and grandchildren, the condolences of the Senate of the Republic and our affectionate participation in their pain and that of all the Italian people. I therefore call on the House to observe a minute's silence and recollection in memory of our illustrious colleague. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u5	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2067, 1844 and 2032, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 176, 209, 286, 299, 381, 382, 384, 385, 386, 387, 389, 468, 581, 597, 609, 614, 700, 708, 709, 1008, 1113, 1456, 1587, 1681, 1682, 1683, 1684, 1693, 1713, 1824, 1905, 1921, 1922, 2103, 2295 and 2457.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Orlando, in his annual report on the state of justice, was able to highlight the indisputable results achieved in these two years of government in a strategic area, that of justice, not only for the effectiveness of the protection of rights, but also as a factor of development and growth. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u7	Excuse me, Senator, I'm interrupting. I'd beg my colleagues to keep quiet. Anyone who needs to talk, have a seat outside. Please, Senator Ginetti.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u8	GINETTI (PD). Thank you, President. Making justice more efficient and consistent with the parameters of the right process in terms of timing and disposal of pending cases in order to strengthen citizens' confidence in the State and its institutions is a priority. The perception of reliability in terms of security, justice and fairness of interventions constitute in fact the social glue of a community, that bond of loyalty that is the basis of a positive sense of belonging and responsible citizenship. The draft law No 2067 is therefore a reform tool in this direction and brings changes to the penal code and the code of criminal procedure for strengthening defensive guarantees and the reasonable duration of the trials, as well as changes to the penitentiary order for the re-educational effectiveness of the sentence. One of the first important problems we had to deal with in this parliamentary term was, in particular, that of the overcrowding of prisons, to which the European Court had referred with the famous Torreggiani judgment, following which the President of the Republic himself, Napolitano, had asked for Parliament's commitment. We have dealt with this issue responsibly, without resorting to extraordinary instruments, but rather we have dealt with it through structural measures to modify the system of penalties and enforcement measures, particularly with regard to alternative measures to prison. These are measures that are an expression of a conception of the function of the evolving penalty, certainly implementing the constitutional provision referred to in Article 27, which provides for a plurality of penalties that must aim at reeducation, resocialization and finally, reparational punishments against the victim and society, without sacrificing the principle of effectiveness and certainty of the penalty, going to establish the penalty of house detention as the main penalty and asking that the detention in prison constitutes in practice the extrema ratio, especially in the precautionary phase. In this way, the restrictions in the penitentiary institutions have decreased and the condemned admitted to alternative measures have doubled, including with the institute of adult testing. Today, therefore, we record a reduction in attendance from 66,000 to 52,000 prisoners, out of 48,000 places, alongside a number of prisoners under execution regime outside the prison, of almost 40,000 units, but with a current trend, alas, to a new beginning of overcrowding for some institutions. However, the measures contained in more than six acts of government and parliament required a system reorder, coherent and structured. For this reason the delegation contained in the bill n. 2067 is a necessary instrument for reform and updating also the stage of criminal execution with the changes to the penitentiary order. In this context, Article 31 of the draft law introduces principles such as the simplification of procedures for the decisions of the supervisory judiciary, including with the implementation of the system of videoconference and remote debate, which, in guaranteeing the right to defence, would also allow a significant saving of resources. It calls for a review of the modalities and assumptions for access to alternative measures, with regard to punishment and subjective assumptions, except for the most serious crimes such as Mafia and terrorism offences. The bill, moreover, reaffirms the need to strengthen what from the beginning was the cornerstone of the new penitentiary order, that is, the obligation of scientific observation of the person of the condemned, in order to individualize the penitentiary treatment, for a program of reintegration and recovery, that with the offer of different opportunities, between training, education and, above all, work, can avert the relapse and absolve the constitutional dictation of the reeducation of the deed. [[Brusio.]] Colleagues, I understand that the matter is quite specific... Excuse me, colleagues, but this can't go on. GINETTI (PD). We are approving a complex measure, which requires a series of reflections, to which we are probably called. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Members who make up hangers in this House can sit outside. Whoever speaks in this Chamber, at least lower your voice! GINETTI (PD). Thank you, Mr President. The differentiation of the treatment and the regional system of the penitentiary circuits, still waiting for a complete implementation, despite the late regulation of the implementation of the penitentiary order n. 230 of 2000, are even more necessary today, with the new emergency of Islamic radicalization in prison, with that proselytism facilitated also by new modalities of management of the prisoners, such as dynamic surveillance to open cells in many institutions. Fundamental remain the principles reaffirmed in the delegation and delivered to the Government, of valorization of the intramurary work, but also to the outside, pursuant to Article 21, as a tool of social recovery, as key elements of the program of penitentiary treatment, able to reconnect the condemned with the outside world. However, two issues on which the delegation draws attention seem to remain in the background today, namely the question of the reorganization of health and penitentiary medicine and the recognition of the right to affection with family members. The prison that opens up to external society becomes permeable and, thanks to cooperation with local authorities, associationism and the third sector, today offers real opportunities for social reintegration and employment. For this reason it is necessary to strengthen the organisation linked to external criminal execution both in terms of surveillance tasks for prison police and in terms of figures such as social workers, psychologists and educators. Finally, the principle of reordering referring to minors is of particular importance. In fact, by Law No 354 of 26 July 1975, which states: "Rules on the penitentiary system and on the enforcement of the privative and restrictive measures of freedom," the legislator, in Chapter IV - Final and transitional provisions - and in particular in Article 79 - specified that the provisions of the law would apply also to children under 18 until such time as it had been provided with a special law. In this way he recognized the need for autonomous discipline of the rules contained in the prison order for minors. The reference concerns not only the provision of education, training and inframural work opportunities, but also the eligibility requirements for alternative measures. In this respect, it should be recalled that the Constitutional Court, by judgment No 125 of 25 March 1992, asked Parliament for a revision of the criteria and limits for admission to semi-freedom and probationary custody, in order to distinguish the condition of the child from the condemned adults. Subsequently, the Constitutional Court itself, in its judgment n. 168 of April 1994, in reaffirming the unconstitutionality of a penalty for minors which, in fact, constitutes a life sentence, imposed a change of sign on the principle of reeducation towards a person who is still in formation and in search of his own identity, an educational connotation rather than reeducational, in order to achieve an effective social reintegration aimed also at a full recovery aimed at preventing the recurrence of crime and an easy action of proselytism. Finally, it should be recalled that delegation forms part of an accelerated construction of an area of common European judicial cooperation, in implementation of Title V of the 2009 European Treaty, for a single area of freedom, justice and security based on mutual trust in national justice systems and on the mutual recognition of judicial decisions also relating to the enforcement of penalties and alternative measures in Member States other than the issuing State. We are far from the minimum rules for the treatment of prisoners dating back to 1973, then confirmed by the Council of Europe in 1987, given the strong prospect of union launched last by the Treaty of Lisbon of 2009, under Article 67, for effective judicial and police cooperation. Certainly, however, starting from Law No 354 of 1975, then from the Gozzini law, with which alternative measures were introduced to detention in prison, and from the Simeoni law, with which entry into prison was avoided with the suspension of the execution order, between steps backwards, such as the ex-Cirielli law and tightening of constraints, our order today relaunches a model of criminal execution, particularly more modern and aimed at the full social recovery of the condemned, in line with the orientation of the European system which nevertheless requires not to lower the guard on the prison system, on overcrowding, on management methods such as dynamic surveillance to open cells that, without the offer of opportunities for work, becomes an opportunity for aggressions, injuries, fires and brawls and, also, of proselytism for Islamic terrorism. In conclusion, the prison remains a place where one continues to die anyway: I am thinking of the suicides of prisoners, but also those of prison police personnel, that is that police force that every day lives in the prison and suffers its permanent deficiencies, waiting for that right recognition, that enhancement that we promised with the law of stability of this year and that reorganization and realignment that would equal it to the other police forces. I'm talking about that prison police force that lives in prison today, between old and new emergencies. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u9	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u10	Mr President, we are missing a great opportunity. We would like to be here discussing the reform of the criminal trial and criminal law, in some respects so much awaited, while - in fact - we are faced with a supposed reform. It is, in fact, a rule that provides for simple changes that do not go at all to improve, as you would like, the criminal system and the code of criminal procedure. There are some aspects that we want to highlight in our brief speech, hoping - I stress, hoping - that we will then be able to explain our amendments and agendas in the appropriate place, without reaching, as is being said, the realization of hypotheses which would lead to the elimination of this possibility. We criticize this provision for what is and for what is not. We take the cues, even at random, because it is enough to look at any standard to realize how inconsistent it is, absolutely ineffective or even harmful. Let us first look at Article 1, which deals with the case of the termination of the offence for remedial conduct. If it is true that it is right that those who commit a crime should then repair the damage they have caused, in our opinion it is not necessary to arrive at the hypothesis of the extinction of the crime, for the pure and simple reason why, whenever a criminal has an income or other availability, perhaps the result of the crime itself, he can very well give money to see completely extinct the crime. We are going to examine other hypotheses which we believe to be absolutely harmful to our system. Article 12 provides for the possibility, for all offences punished with a financial penalty or up to four years of imprisonment, to proceed only on a party's case. Apart from the exceptions provided for, it will be the responsibility of the person offended to proceed and, therefore, to file a complaint. Gentlemen, in this way we are going to frustrate the possibility of proceeding against many crimes, because sometimes those who have to file a complaint do not do so perhaps because they are afraid of retaliation, for forgetfulness, or because they are particularly disturbed by the possibility of crime. The burden of the burden of proceeding is recognized to the individual, to the person offended, but I remember that the processibility of office is a guarantee with reference to many crimes. It will be on the initiative of the party to start the processes, for example, in the matter of undue perception of disbursements to the detriment of the State, referred to in Article 316-b of the Criminal Code. Who in this case is the offended person? Who's pressing the lawsuit? We also remember all those cases of trespassing. We will have to wait every time for the private person to take charge of the whole procedure in order to get the process going. There is another part of the measure that we find absolutely deleterious. They are included in the old schemes that have now been adopted in this legislature by government and majority, of alternative measures to prison. You still want to insist on making prison an extreme solution and you come to find alternative hypotheses that - past the term - become ridiculous. I would like our fellow citizens to read at home the content of the article which provides for the delegation to review the prison system. It is said to favour re-educational treatment, to grant prison benefits to life sentences, to promote the integration of foreign prisoners. But what, in my opinion, really represents the most is the expression: "strengthening contacts with the outside world as a guiding criterion of the treatment activity according to social reintegration". We're talking about maximum compliance of prison life with external life. Besides, what is dynamic surveillance? Colleagues, we are faced with such assumptions that they require our fellow citizens to know what you intend to do. These are rules which are almost without internal content but which, in the end, by exercising their delegation with these guiding principles, completely undermine a system. But what do we criticize, especially? We criticize what is lacking in this provision. There was a bill, signed by my colleague from the North League in the House, Mr Molteni, among other things, approved by a large majority by that branch of Parliament, which had to have the opportunity to move forward and become a law. It was a provision on the abbreviated judgment that excluded the possibility of recourse to this institute in some very serious cases. We expected that the possibility of abbreviated judgment could not be granted, for example in the case of kidnapping for terrorism, for massacre, for aggravated murder, for trafficking in persons, for the purchase and alienation of slaves, for kidnapping for extortion purposes. In our opinion, the abbreviated judgment, which provides for the benefits of reduction of the sentence, must not be granted in these circumstances. In this case, our amendment to introduce this provision has been completely forgotten. But what we criticize in this measure above all is the failure to eliminate the very serious consequences of all the empty prison decrees approved since the beginning of the parliamentary term to date. We will never be able to approve a reform of the criminal trial as long as all these measures remain in existence. We need to eliminate the possibility of detention in prison only for crimes that have been punished for up to five years. We want to eliminate early release as you have expanded it. We want to ensure that there is no further penalty rebates for the so-called inhumane conditions of detention. We want to get rid of the testing institute. Only through these eliminations will we be able to approve a reform of the criminal trial. But above all, and we regard this as a very serious shortcoming, we have not talked about self-defense. We've been discussing this for months and we've been trying to frame our own bill in the House. Self-defense is an institution that needs to be modified, and this could have been an opportunity, beyond the title and boundaries of this bill. We have made a proposal, with our bill, introducing a presumption of self-defense. When a criminal, in Italy, enters a house with a weapon (even if it is more people), if the owner defends himself, that owner must be protected, because he does it legitimately. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] If we do not come to this institution, we do not think that this reform can make any sense. We have tabled a number of amending proposals, for the repeal of the decrees empty prisons, for the introduction of self-defense, as we have configured it. We have included the provision of the malicious begging crime and also the possibility of not resorting to conditional suspension of the sentence and pleas in many cases, especially when there has been no compensation. These are all assumptions that cannot be ignored. So, we can't reform the criminal trial with mere filings. Then, in all our various proposals, we also included the crime of theft and robbery. You have tried clumsily to insert a couple of rules aimed only at a benevolent captatio towards our fellow citizens; pretend that you have introduced serious increases in punishment against thefts in the apartment and robberies, but we say that this is not good and we propose effective bills, because only in this way will we succeed in having a serious criminal system. Pretend to raise the sentence of six months, one year or two years, but if you then maintain all the prison benefits (early release, house arrests, testing), frustrate the increases in punishment. We will therefore continue to oppose the measures you continue to take in the area of criminal law and criminal procedure, because in the end you are only hurting all our fellow citizens. We have also proposed agendas which we consider very interesting. Let us see what will be the attitude with which they will be accepted: when we try to introduce a crime to punish those who force a child or a child to get married (a very widespread phenomenon, more widespread than we think), we want to see what the government's opinion will be, what will be the attitude of the majority in the face of the introduction of a crime whose punishableness is a measure of absolute civilization. For this reason, we will certainly present our proposals in the amending phase, but in the meantime we insist that if you continue to make fake, empty or meaningless reforms, we will always continue to vote no. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u11	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I examined the question referred by Senator Caliendo, I had made comments on the unconstitutionalities of the draft law under consideration. I have reminded you of one of the rules of the XII tables, which I think you should remember, namely the so-called law of the taglion: if you cut a limb to a subject and do not compensate him for the damage, even you are cut off the limb. I remind you of it. He said this famous rule inserted in the XII tables of Roman times: "Si membrum rupsit, ni cum eo pacif, talio esto" (Si membrum rupsit, ni cum eo pacif, talio esto). The Government has coupled this rule with Article 1 and has affirmed - and it is here the principle of unconstitutionality - that if the accused person compensates the injury to the offended person (we obviously speak of crimes that can be prosecuted), even if she does not put the complaint back, the crime is extinguished. We have a copy of a rule of the XII tables of Roman times. After a vote on the question of prejudice - there was also the problem of the duration of the trial, which involved a violation of Article 111 of the Constitution - we deal with the merit of the measure. Colleagues, one of the accusations, which, moreover, I consider absolutely well founded, more frequently addressed to the criminal legislator is schizophrenia legislation, that is to alternate within a short period of time interventions of diametrically opposite sign, in general to comply with the supposed will of the public that manifest themselves punctually on the occasion of this or of that particular event. There is also talk of a legislative pendulum to effectively represent the continuous oscillation of laws from one extreme to the other. In the bill that we are examining today, there is something more than this legislative schizophrenia: something disconcerting, that is, the schizophrenia of the same law text. Before, in fact, I spoke to you about schizophrenia between two texts approved at times distant from each other, albeit short; now schizophrenia manifests itself within the same measure. This bill represents a kind of zibaldone of norms and provisions that coexist with much difficulty - as my colleague Barani would say - in a psychotic patient suffering from multiple personalities, ideas and visions of criminal law, sanction and process diametrically opposed. In fact, if one verse, for example - I draw the attention of colleagues of the League - increases the penalties, moreover already high enough, of crimes such as theft in apartment, on the other hand, what is done? It frustrates the effect of this increase in punishment - hence schizophrenia - because Article 36 raises the deadline for the order of execution of the sentence to be suspended from three to four years. At the time when the sentenced person receives the order of execution of the sentence - in practice he must go to prison - he may request its suspension. Up to now the maximum penalty for which he could request the suspension of the order of execution of the sentence was three years. Now it has been brought to four years: tell me whether for an apartment theft someone will ever be sentenced to more than four years. This means that the guilty person will have the order of execution suspended. What happens in practice? That the motion for suspension suspends the execution of the sentence and the judge of execution decides after three years, sometimes four: this is the dystonia of justice. There will be a judge who, faced with the request of a convicted person to see suspended the execution of the sentence imposed on him, replies perhaps rejecting it after four years. That gentleman, who has committed the crime of theft in the apartment, will have four years to possibly accumulate other illegal conduct, then consume other crimes of this kind. Then there is the system of delegations. Gentlemen, these are delegations in white; we give the Government the power to legislate - in accordance with the principles of the Constitution, of course - but at the time when we grant a delegation, the same must have certain requirements. If you read the delegations included in this bill you will find that it is basically a matter of white delegations. Therefore, we do not know what will happen with the implementing decrees that will be examined by the competent Justice Commission, which will express an opinion that we know is not binding. A further theme is that of prescription. Senator Casson, rapporteur of the measure, at first imagined the possibility of having the prescription interrupted after the judgment at first instance. In fact, it was already an idea of previous Commissions: the Pisapia Commission and others had already imagined it. I wonder, among other things, why in the first draft there was talk of a judgment of first instance without specifying whether it was a conviction or absolution; however this was then exceeded because - thank God - it was specified with the suspension of the prescription for sentences of condemnation. We are not opposed to further lengthening the deadline; we would have liked to discuss this issue and introduce something that is not my invention. In fact, I as someone else sometimes copy and I have seen that the hypothesis of suspension or interruption of the judicial action promoted by the State when the duration of the trial goes beyond certain limits is also derived from the Anglo-Saxon order. So, for one thing, we balance the end of the prescription of the crime with the term that is assigned to the justice to celebrate the trial. Moreover, I have never liked this term, because I do not know what "prescription of the crime" means: if a fact has been committed or in any case there has been no prescription at all; let's say that the ownership of the State is prescribed to prosecute that particular subject for that particular crime. I had imagined something, even in compliance with Article 111 of the Constitution, in particular for the crime of corruption, which as far as I am concerned is a hateful crime that has the consequences of extreme gravity in our country because it affects our economy: entrepreneurs, in fact, do not come to invest in our country because they believe that in order to be able to work there it is necessary to consume crimes, or at least to agree with those who are corrupt. This crime, moreover, has an even greater cultural impact on the relations between citizens and institutions, because when the citizen loses confidence in the institutions, the democracy of a country is really being called into question. I had proposed to assign him a preferential lane, including the crime of corruption, among those provided for in Article 132- bis of the Code of Criminal Procedure; I had also imagined that I would empty this basket a little, because if we insert many of the crimes in this basket the effect would be frustrated. It was not possible to say no; my amendment was accepted in the Commission: how was it possible, in fact, to deny that this type of crime should have a preferential lane at a time when public opinion was aware of the seriousness of these facts? However, I did this by imagining that I would balance a little bit the end of the prescription of this crime. However, they could not reject this amendment, they approved it in the Commission, but they did not balance it (as was my understanding), so they left the prescription as it is. What did they do? Throughout the Commission the relations between the two rapporteurs, Senator Casson and Senator Cucca, have been so opposed that some amendments were signed by one and not the other, because there was no agreement; in the end this poor solution was reached, which consists in reducing the suspension to one year and six months after the judgment. In short, a bunch of rules that are not together, not even in terms of regulatory harmony. We will shortly make explanations of vote, if we are given, since we are talking about trust; I do not know, these are assessments that the Government makes with its majority. We have already told the press that, if there is ever any question of confidence in this measure, we will not vote for it. By not voting for confidence, we show that we, on individual measures, freely, without any conditioning, decide whether or not to vote for them. I repeat, if confidence is placed on this measure, I will never vote for it myself, because I cannot be associated with that schizophrenic legislator I have just described. [[Applause from the AL-A Group and Senator Comrade. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u13	She is registered to speak Senator Bisinella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, undersecretary, we have an important opportunity before us, namely to approve such a comprehensive amendment to the penal code and the criminal procedure code. The key opportunity may be to give priority, first and foremost, to the issue of the safety of our fellow citizens. Indeed, those who are outside Parliament are waiting for us legislators who are responsible for passing the laws to be able to deliver effective legislation that will give precise and concrete answers to the primary need of citizens: their security. It is a primary need of our country and of every society. In fact, if a country is safe and gives rigorous and punctual answers in terms of prevention and precise reaction compared to those who are criminals, society lives better, develops better and is enriched from the social and economic point of view. Unfortunately, the chronicles tell us every day of episodes in which there are damage against the heritage, predatory crimes, which are accompanied, increasingly often, to heinous violence against people, whether it is episodes of theft in the street or in the home, whether it is robberies in commercial businesses and professional activities. All this happens when the country goes through - we know - a social crisis that has no precedent, either because of economic problems, or because of such a large presence and almost out of control, now, in our territory of people from other countries, non-EU countries, who often do not have the titles to stay in our country. We know very well what are the immense difficulties of managing the migratory phenomenon; but we know just as well the data on delays in examining and answering the questions of those who are entitled to remain in our country. We know that very often there are unidentified illegals who also give themselves to criminal life. The chronicles tell us several episodes; the umpteenth happened the day before yesterday in my city, Verona, in which a multiple prejudiced clandestine, that had already received an order of expulsion not executed, with much effort has been captured by the Forces of the order, that every day risk their lives in order to defend our fellow citizens and to carry out well their task of protecting the order and the security of the State. Well, once he was captured, he was taken to prison, judged for direct and the day after he was released, despite criminal precedents and despite the expulsion order not executed. Clearly, the victim of the crime - like all of us and all of our fellow citizens - faced with incidents like this remains totally disconcerted and wonders where the response of justice is, where legal certainty and, above all, the certainty of punishment are. He was released because the judge, in that case, considered that attenuating circumstances or a particular reconstruction of the facts did not involve the commissioning of a punishment such as to lead this figure into the prison patriae. That's not possible. There are cases in which the interpretation of the magistrates (some of whom have difficulties in applying rules that are often not written in a clear and certain way and are therefore capable of different interpretations) involves such incidents. A person who commits a crime, who is perceived as a crime of great social danger by those who suffer it and the whole community, is released because perhaps the evidence, the reconstructions or the norm are interpreted in a way different from what another judge could have done. But the feedback is always that those who commit a crime, a criminal, to really go to jail, to really go to jail in our country, who knows what to do. This is no longer tolerable. The security demand of our citizens stems from the emergency and the fact that they feel unprotected and abandoned by the State, which cannot give a firm and rigorous response. (17.20) (Follows Bisinella). Why did I make this premise? I would like to address a strong call to the Government, to the majority and to all the opposition forces, who have the task of trying to achieve the best of regulatory changes in such an important and vital area for the country. Above all, we must consider and take care, beyond so many other aspects (such as the subject of prescription), of what is the primary interest of citizens, of what they first ask for. What is the answer they want from the legislator and from a state that can give an image of severity, rigour, prevention and even deterrent to those who come from abroad in our country and those who look at us as a foreign investor? It is the fact that, in the face of crimes of this kind (thefts and robberies), it follows an exemplary penalty, that it is inflicted and that it is truly atoned for, until the end. We have an opportunity to intervene immediately to give this justice response to our citizens, by passing clear rules, that are not susceptible to different and imaginative interpretations (as is the case today), that give the citizen the opportunity to know that, when a criminal is brought before justice to be judged, he will pay for what he has done, staying in prison. The problem of incarceration of prisoners, overcrowding and whatever else we face it and we will have to deal with it in many other ways, but certainly not with goodness and with a series of measures that go in the sense of laxity in this country; this is no longer acceptable. I remember that crimes of this kind, especially when a criminal enters the private home of someone, suddenly (maybe at night), or in the context of his activity (of a shop or professional activity), compromise the safety not only of the victim who suffers the crime, but - I repeat - of an entire community. I also point out to the Government and the majority that the opportunity is to redesign the rules in a precise and precise manner. It is true that, as the text is currently written, contradictions may arise; but we have an opportunity to put this very aspect in place. As a Mixed-Fare Group! We have presented our precise proposal for a law, consisting of simple five articles, which provides for a rule of easy interpretation and, above all, easy to apply: a dry, much higher (threefold) penalty, without the possibility that discounts, benefits or premium measures are granted and without the possibility that mitigating factors prevail over aggravating circumstances (always in cases of theft and robbery), without the possibility that discounts are granted or even the measure of house arrests or the application of the small matter. Why do I say that and why is it possible to do that? If we compare our order to that of other countries (I am not referring to the usual Germany, but I am thinking of Romania itself), we notice that these have a criminal system that, for theft and robbery, provides for penalties that are much higher than ours. Our country, compared to those who come from elsewhere, gives the image of a country so goodist, so devoid of rigour and firmness, that it makes us think almost about the country of Bengodi, where one arrives and can delinquere undisturbed, because he knows so much that he will remain unpunished. Not only do some European states (but if we look elsewhere in the West) provide for higher penalties, but they provide for dry penalties so that there is no possibility of misleading interpretations. We have also tabled specific amendments in this direction. Colleagues, I say this above all to the Government and the majority forces, but also to the colleagues of the other opposition parties: we have the possibility to devise an effective, rigorous and precise system that finally brings this order towards the direction of certainty of the penalty to give a security response to our citizens and that is what they ask us. They do not ask us to argue so much about the prescription; they are interested in this, but they are interested to a certain extent. They want a security response compared to what they see every day and above all live on their skin, in their homes and in their activities. This can be done with our amendments. I therefore hope that, first of all, there will be a real desire to work on it and roll up our sleeves to achieve a shared solution, but above all there will be the possibility of accepting our proposals. [[Applause from the Mixed-Fare Group!]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u15	Senator Marinello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u16	Mr President, the draft law we are examining today is complex, full-bodied and deals with an extremely sensitive matter. We would have to discuss this for months, given the extent and importance of the changes that are being made to criminal law. But I would like to retrace some of the essential points of the measure. Among other things, I must add that the measure, as it has arrived in this House, is clearly manifested from my point of view (I do not want to commit the Group to which I belong) still some critical issues that make me particularly perplexed on some points. I ask the Government to be careful with these words: I hope that the Government, indeed I urge it, in case of a vote of confidence, so that the maxi amendment takes into account the fact that there is, even in some areas of the majority, a state of discomfort and perplexity on certain specific points. Having said that, we must retrace a few points. Among the 40 articles there are some points concerning the reform of the prescription, the tightening of sanctions for serious and hateful crimes, such as political-mafia electoral exchange, theft and robbery, which we can also appreciate positively. Rules are laid down to simplify the criminal process. Delegations are assigned to the Government for the reordering of the very delicate matter of interceptions and for the equally fundamental reform of the penitentiary order. In this regard, we hope that the Government will make good use of these delegations: I am referring in particular to the topic that concerns the interceptions that for decades has been addressed by politics and by different governments and has been addressed, precisely, in past legislation. I believe that the distorted use of interceptions, speculations of a political nature and sometimes - why not - also of an economic nature hidden behind the interceptions are well present to the Government in the exercise of the delegation. Nor is the simplification of procedures in criminal matters to which the title of the draft law is dedicated neglected in the measure. On the subject of limitation, the decision to suspend the period of limitation of one year and six months after the first instance and also after the appeal satisfies the procedural requirement of longer time limits for the judgment, even if personally, to tell the truth, I have always wished exactly the opposite, that is, that the judgment takes place in a reasonable time, also because we remember that we are always bound to the fundamental criterion that is that of the right duration of the judgment. So the time of judgment could be greatly expanded, and we would not want this measure to have such effects. They represent, in fact, beyond the results of the judgment itself, however already in itself an advance of the condemnation, not only media, but also from the point of view of the weight that the citizens have to bear. However, the limitation regime, at the end of the Commission's work, has remained liberal in some points and therefore fairly balanced, as provided for in the code of 1930, although these corrections which determine the increase of the time limits, as I said earlier, for the stages of appeal, both on appeal and in Cassation, guaranteeing in any case the exhaustive respect of the principle of the reasonable duration of the process, in fact, in my opinion they present some criticalities. With regard to delegation of wiretapping, I would like to stress the importance attached to the principle of confidentiality of communications and telephone conversations intercepted, in accordance with Article 15 of the Constitution. From this point of view, the attention to the protection of interceptions of persons occasionally involved in the proceedings seems absolutely positive, even with respect to communications which are not relevant for the purposes of criminal justice. It will also punish those who spread illegal wiretapping to harm the reputation of others. Finally, the Commission has had the merit of laying down precise and punctual guidance criteria for interceptions with computer receivers, the so-called Trojan viruses. Of primary importance also appear some profiles of the delegation of reform of the penitentiary order: I refer to the access to the measures alternatives to the penitentiary benefits, of which it is intended to facilitate the usability, the identification of activities of reparational justice, the increase and the valorization of the job opportunities and voluntary for the prisoners, all intended as qualifying moments of the path of social recovery of the same. Positive is also the importance attributed to the educational needs of minors, to the specific interventions in favour of women recluse and mothers inmates. The work was intense, there were moments of live confrontation between the various political souls of the majority and also between majority and opposition. The debate was an opportunity to reach a number of points of understanding, which were higher than the starting positions, and to find shared solutions. To conclude, the text of the draft law under consideration, as amended in detail by the Justice Commission, has been welcomed by the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the Union of Criminal Chambers, which is not unique, but certainly rare in relation to what happens or has happened normally, at least as far as our experience is concerned. Therefore, I believe that overall we can show some satisfaction and take the opportunity to thank, in addition to the members of the Commission, the President of the Commission, Mr D'Ascola, for the masterful management of the various phases of the examination in the referent, especially at times of greater bitterness and confrontation between the parties. Finally, I call once again for the attention of the Government for a more careful evaluation of the text which, in case of any request for a vote of confidence, will be brought to the attention and appreciation of the Assembly and, above all, of the majority. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u17	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u18	Mr President, the point I wish to make with my speech is that of limitation, which is an issue which has not been resolved at all in this measure, although we have been waiting for years for it to be dealt with in a proper and complete manner. This problem has not been resolved, although the European Commission, in February of this year, pointed out that our structural economic problems also stem from a failure to combat corruption and hence from the prescription, which causes the trials to lapse. This anomaly of our system is also highlighted by the OECD and the European Court of Justice, but, as we know, we make Europe impose only the things that, to some extent, we agree with, and when, instead, it is necessary to take the right measures, we do not know or do not want to do so. Let us briefly comment on environmental crimes. With Law No. 68 of 2015 we tried to resolve this very specific issue because these are particular crimes that are committed in times far more remote than when the effect comes to manifest itself. This has been repeated for decades and I remember, in this regard, the Pellini process in which the public prosecutor Maria Cristina Ribera, standing up, strongly repeated it. We bell towers are particularly impressed, but the map of the environmental processes that went into prescription runs all over Italy and the wounds are insane. We know all the names of the trials. I am thinking, for example, of the Cassiopea investigation process. There are 30,000 crimes a year, basically four per hour, but the prescription cuts these trials because they are complicated and take many years. The main issue lies precisely in the date on which the crime is committed, which is the date on which the limitation begins. A change is required: at least for environmental offences, the prescription should start from the day on which the news of the crime is acquired or reaches the public prosecutor. Of course, Law No. 68 of 2015, with the doubling of prescription times and transforming infractional crimes into crimes, has made its difference, but it is not enough. We know that there is a need to make a difference so that there are no more prescriptions such as those of Porto Marghera, the Eternit case, the Cassiopea process, the Pitelli landfill, the Artemide process and that of Impregilo and Bassolino, which I do not want to name last, but the list is too long. Punishment is not the most important thing; the question is the ascertainment of the person responsible in order to charge for the reclamations and for the territorial restoration according to law, to implement the famous slogan - that in Italy it is not - "The polluter pays." There are not only environmental crimes; how much does corruption cost us? Not 60 billion, which sounds like a fake figure. Maybe it costs us 100 billion. The truth is, you don't know how much. What is certain is that spending on contracts, works, supplies and public services is 40% more on corruption. This is a fact of the Court of Auditors. That's a certain figure. Yet, in prison we have less than 300 people convicted of these crimes out of a total of 50,000 prisoners. The attempt - I repeat - is not to punish and imprison individuals, but the corruptive pact is beneficial to criminals. That's the figure. This is the Italy we want, since we are still not solving the problem today? Of course, the prescription arises for very reasonable reasons: to have an economically sustainable system, to have the right to defence, a reasonable duration of the trial and a fair trial. The judiciary is accused of being slow and complaining about the excessive length of trials, but the truth is that a good judicial machine is needed. In Italy we do not have it because we have 15 judges for every 100,000 inhabitants, against an average ranging from 25 to 60 judges per 100,000 inhabitants and we have a structural lack of staff of over 26 percent. In addition, the requirement affects the prohibition of reforming the judgment at first instance in a worse way. This determines the fact that many appeals are tactical and aimed at achieving the prescription. In fact, only those who settle are punished, but those who reach the end almost always enjoy the grace of the prescription. For this reason, it is necessary that, in addition to the adoption of the amendment I mentioned earlier, the limitation period should stop after the conviction at first instance. These two amending proposals alone could make a substantial difference in the content of the measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u19	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law to reform the criminal trial, although a step forward, does not prefigure a solution of radical change in the discipline of the prescription, as expected and as all observers, from Caselli to Gratteri, from Roberti to Cantone, from Davigo, from Libera to Riparte il futuro, have been calling for for years. In fact, it is not enough to lengthen only a little 'the time of the prescription between appeal and Cassation if our country intends to leave definitively behind the figure of the approximately 150,000 trials per year that go to the Macero. Yet Italy is one of the countries with the highest index of perception of corruption in Europe and we know very well that the great pitfall typical of corrupt practices, represented by the hidden agreements between corrupt and corruptor in the absence of complaints, risks to frustrate much of the investigations. I have tabled a number of amendments to this measure. First of all, I propose the repeal of Article 161, paragraph 2, of the Criminal Code. It is the infamous so-called ex-Cirielli law of 2005, which has had devastating effects on the procedural system. Prior to 2005, the limitation period for a corruption offence was fifteen years, but after 2005 it was reduced to seven years and six months until the 2012 reform. On the processes involved in the prescription for particularly serious crimes, such as crimes caused by accidents in the workplace, as well as environmental and asbestos crimes, the amendments I have tabled go in the direction already outlined by Senator Casson. These are particularly hateful situations. I remind myself that the crimes of the G8 of Genoa have been prescribed, where unarmed demonstrators were surprised in the night at the Diaz school and beaten wildly, as recognized by a ruling of the European Court of Human Rights (I speak of the so-called judgment Cestaro of 2015). The crimes of the top of the Eternit for asbestos deaths have been prescribed and the crimes of the Italian Ferrovie dello Stato managers for the massive massacre of Viareggio are likely to be prescribed. If we abolish Article 161, paragraph 2, we understand even better the meaning of my second amendment, aimed at introducing the sentence of conviction at first instance as an interrupting cause of limitation. At the moment, in Article 160 the referral to trial interrupts the prescription, even if the effect of such interruption is sterilized by the so-called ex-Cirielli law. Adding condemnation at first instance as an interruptive (and non- suspensive) fact, as proposed in the text, would be more consistent, as our system would thus place itself in the wake of the major European democracies. Moreover, in Germany a serious crime, with a sentence of between five and ten years (that is, our corruption for acts contrary to the duty of office), is extinguished by prescription in ten years. However, if the interruption occurs, you will reach up to twenty years, i.e. twice the legal limitation period. In conclusion, I would have liked a more decisive approach on this particular point. It is absolutely clear that a more incisive reform of the prescription regime not only improves our justice system, but can have decisive effects on the impact on the Italian economy and the fight against its endemic evils. Indeed, corruption, as the Court of Auditors has reminded us several times, not only reduces the quality of services by affecting tax revenues, but also increases social injustice and poverty. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u21	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u22	Mr President, at the beginning of your speech, Mrs Stefani spoke of a missed opportunity. And that is precisely the feeling that the whole Group of the North League has towards this measure. It was a measure that had to respond to one of the real emergencies of our country, that is, the need of our fellow citizens to feel secure in their homes and in their cities compared to episodes of crime that are now increasingly widespread and end, without fail, with the release of even those few criminals who are arrested. This does not happen because there is no possibility of combating these phenomena or there is no possibility of keeping in prison those who commit these crimes; if this situation exists in our country it is because there is an express will, on the part of this majority, not to assure the prison fathers those who commit these crimes. And we can demonstrate this by the facts, by all those measures which, during this parliamentary term, this majority has approved to protect criminals and against the safety of citizens. The legislative decree of 16 March 2015 laying down provisions on non-penalty for particular offences considered to have little impact on citizens, has been approved by this majority and certainly not inherited from previous situations and old legislation. Thus also the decree-law of 1 July 2013, which provides for a lower protective custody, raising the penalties for which this is provided and a whole series of other measures defined commonly empty prisons. You have approved these measures and you have transformed legislation, already lacking in terms of certainty of punishment, into legislation that has represented and represents today in Italy the certainty of the impunity of criminals! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You are complicit in this abhorrent situation and you are complicit in criminals who daily do violence against our citizens. As a testimony to what I say I bring back two of the endless cases that happen every day on our territory. Last week's news is the arrest of two non-EU citizens of Moroccan origin who did violence against a couple of elderly people in their home; they used an iron against an eighty-six-year-old lady to force her to give information about the money she kept at home. Well, these two Moroccan citizens are irregular, therefore, they were not to be present in our country and, having already several criminal precedents, they had to be in prison for crimes already committed. On the other hand, thanks to the legislation adopted by this Parliament, by this majority, those two Moroccan citizens were able to make other victims. Another episode, always dating back to last week, concerns a citizen of Legnaro, in the province of Padua, always in Veneto. Walter Onichini has been accused, and now he has an ongoing trial for attempted murder, because he dared to defend himself against criminals who intended to steal his car. Well, this citizen, who dared to defend himself because Italian justice is unable to do so, will suffer the trial, while the 24-year-old Albanian citizen, a thief, who wanted to rob him and so wanted to commit a crime, even demanded compensation of EUR 300,000. This is the most evident picture of what Italy is. The Bengodi of crime, the place where those who are dedicated to these activities are sure that they can do what they want and do. And they do so, not because politics is all the same or because there is no possibility of responding to this emergency, but because it is in a favourable situation in which the majority and the government do not care about the security of the citizens, but continue to take measures that do not guarantee security, but exclusively the impunity of those who delinquency and that every day make our cities insecure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u23	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u24	Mr President, I am not a lawyer and I cannot add much to what my colleague Mr Falanga has just said in this House. Who, however, cannot play the role of jurist, can play the role of philosopher then I would like to ask the illustrious rapporteurs if they have ever posed a problem, and I am not referring to that of immigrant and fear, that is to say to all the small issues of small cabotage cited by the colleague of the League, forgetting that the League, for the truth, voted in favour of the so-called Cirielli in 2005. Here we should raise a question of an existential and philosophical nature concerning the guarantees and freedoms of citizens, namely that negative right which Isaiah Berlin referred to when he spoke of inalienable rights of which the citizen is a bearer and which are not in the availability of any authority. The higher the rate of these rights, the more free and guaranteed the citizen within the State. Basically, although you have to modify and record a whole series of issues, you basically rage a series of rules and take advantage of them, so as not to disturb the well-born souls of the magistrates, including a rule that allows them to make sentences more calmly and to celebrate the trials with greater tranquility. Let us start, that is, from the efficiency of justice, we write on the front page of this provision that is aimed at obtaining a fair trial in compatible times, and within it, even if for certain cases of crime, we extend the term of limitation by 50%. Now, I would like to say to my colleagues and lawyers: but the crime of external competition which is not typical, which allows certain prosecutors to use and abuse, both in the anti-Mafia district and in the ordinary judiciary, when we want to talk about it? When we want to talk about preventive imprisonment, which has become the anticipation of a penalty, knowing well that that process will not be celebrated or, if it comes to the end, after decades - in this case after twenty years - it will be completely irrelevant and anachronistic respect both to the rehabilitation of the one who has been acquitted, and to the political, social and administrative context within which he wanted to affect himself? So we're gonna be a people of inquisitions. We will be a people who, assuming a hypothesis of crime, a delation, were also an antipathy - many times it is a question of sympathy and antipathy, because we cannot understand why one is hit and not another that is in the same condition - will be able to hold an Italian citizen on the grid for twenty-two or twenty-three years, without having the obligation and the burden of celebrating a trial with a definitive sentence that determines its condemnation or absolution. It seems that you live in a lunar context, as if this was not the time when the trials are celebrated in the newspapers, in the talk shows; the time when the magistrates no longer speak for sentences, but do the press conferences the day after that in which they issued restrictive measures, arming the press for true and certain thesis accusatory, and therefore feeding the mass media circuit, the public guitar at the expense of the accused. (Senator Casson is heading towards the exit of the hemicycle.) Casson's leaving. I'm probably disturbing him. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Anyone who has or may have certain needs. D'ANNA (AL-A). Senator Casson, stay another minute in the Chamber, because much of my saying is addressed to those who legitimately think like you, with all due respect. Instead of putting the problem of speeding up justice and imposing it on the magistrates, of course by providing it with the tools - I seem to have remembered that this Government wanted to allocate a billion for justice some time ago - what do we do instead? We create the additional comfort, for those who inquisite before and for those who judge themselves after, of being able to do so, for some crimes against the public administration, in double the time provided for before. Given that with the Cirielli, from 2005 to today, the number of trials that have been prescribed has halved - this is what the statistic says and not me, that I am not a fan of Cirielli - in this capacity let me humbly remind you that there is a precious asset, that is the right of the citizen to obtain justice. How do criminal phenomena (the Mafia, the Camorra) historically arise? They were born of the disaffection and distrust that had in certain contexts towards the State and its ability to do justice, which is why other ways were taken, and there were organizations that in their own way promised to do justice. We cannot vote on this bill, and we cannot do so because it is contrary to that speed, to that feeling of just justice - let me use this pleonasm - to which all men aspire, because it does not take the magistrates responsibility to speed up the procedures and does not pose the problem that there is a sea between the suspect and the condemned. Another of the madnesses of these months is stupidity, which some must be credited to every foot pushed, that there may exist an ethics that comes before that contained in the law. In this way we run the risk of being judged not for breaking the norm, and therefore the ethics contained in it, but because we have violated the moral or moral concept of someone who believes should be placed before the one provided for by the law. If the idea goes by that all the suspects are guilty apodittically or are unworthy to hold office or to run - we have seen and heard of all the colors - extending the terms of the prescription, you are basically helping those who want to establish this method of political justice in Italy, because it cannot be defined differently. Then, with good peace from all of us, I urge the learned colleagues to address the problem of typing the crime of external competition - we would like to know what it is - and the fact that there are people who serve two, three or four years of preventive imprisonment and cannot in three, four or five years see the trial started. I wonder, then, if preventive imprisonment is an advance on the sentence. These are the necessities to be addressed. Then we would like to know how much the repentant cost. When it is proposed here to allocate an additional 100 million for research, it seems that everyone jumps at you. However, it seems to me that the law on repentance costs us 600-700 million a year and, therefore, I wonder if we can discuss such issues. Can we subtract the citizen from the angeries and approximations of those who investigate him? That's all. I do not intend to go against Mr Casson - for God's sake - or against those who have conceived the bill in question. I believe, however, that liberalism, to which many people here refer, is essentially the ability to limit the State's arbitrariness, of all forms of power, over citizens. With this bill we strengthen the arbitrary interference in the lives of citizens by the judiciary, which is an irreconcilable and irresponsible power. Those who, therefore, have the tool to maramaldise the freedom and rights of the citizen then do not account for it. I wonder, then, if we want to think about this or if we want to lose ourselves on the bagatelle of immigrants who are angry with the old ladies and all the other things that we have heard. We are an elected Assembly representing the nation and must represent first and foremost the defence of the founding values of the Republic, which are the rights and freedoms of its citizens. And this law does not protect them: it aggravates the situation, bends the freedoms and rights of citizens to greater abuse and will by the State. [[Applause from the AL-A Group and the Senators Giovanardi, Milo and Serafini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u25	Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u26	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion is extremely significant, very broad in scope for criminal justice and contains a measure on which I shall dwell. I will focus only on the first paragraph of Article 12, on the principle of delegation which leads to point (d), which concerns the problem of persons with mental illness who are subject to measures by justice. The measure that has come before this House contains a principle of delegation approved in the Justice Commission - I believe - at the end of July, which was very welcome. If this principle were to remain as it is, it would make a tremendous step back to the situation of prisons and people with mental disorder, taking up the principles already foreseen before the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 2008 that had transferred the protection of the health of prisoners from justice to health and had foreseen a strong integration and collaboration and then of the measure that this Assembly approved in 2014 for the closure of psychiatric hospitals judicial (OPG) and the use of residences for the implementation of security measures (REMS). What's the risk? The risk is that, on the basis of a sure intention in good faith from the humanitarian and shared point of view, people who currently in force law do not provide that they should go, or that they can be destined to the REMS even those who are waiting to ascertain their mental health condition, or those who are accused subject to temporary security measures, or sentenced persons who have seen in their mental health problems after imprisonment and, therefore, during detention. These were precisely the cases for which we had foreseen, in the legislation that in the last ten years has been wanted, that there were different solutions to the principle contained in the norm that we are considering, namely that the network of structures, inside and outside prisons, which deal fully with the problems of the mental health of the prisoners, the accused and those who need to ascertain their mental situation, were activated. It is foreseen by the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 2008 and then by the agreement entered into in the State-Regions Conference in 2011 that all the psychiatric, psychosocial and health treatments necessary for their accompaniment and rehabilitation, as far as possible, are established within the prisons; that psychiatric observation, that is to say, are guaranteed to prisoners who have problems of mental distress, all the psychological, psychosocial and health treatments necessary for their accompaniment and rehabilitation, as far as possible; and, above all, that the penitentiary institutions are connected with the health services of the competent health companies and the regions so that this happens in the presence of an adequate staff of specialized personnel to respond to the needs of the prison population that presents mental health problems. On the other hand, the principle contained in Article 12 (d) makes a tremendous step backwards. It provides, in fact, that they are admitted to the residences (REMS) acquitted and condemned, accused and persons only waiting to ascertain their mental health conditions: in fact, it reopens to the Manicomial logic, which now, starting from Law No. 180 of 1978 and especially in the last ten years, from 2008 onwards, we had overcome, providing that the protection of the health of the people in prison was adequate, as it happens for people who are not deprived of their freedom. In order to avoid this situation, we have tabled an amendment, 12,122, signed by the members of the Democratic Party of the Health Commission and the Commission Justice, which instead provides for the confirmation of the principles currently laid down in the legislation and not their overcoming, and which provides, precisely, that the health companies, the regions and the department of the penitentiary administration work to ensure the protection of the health of people with mental disorders, as provided for in the legislation. I thank the speakers, the Ministry of Health and the Undersecretary Vito De Filippo, who took care of the problem. We know that, compared to the amendment that we have tabled, they have proposed an amendment that we fully agree with and that, on the contrary, it is even clearer than what we have written. We believe that this amendment is essential in order to prevent the country from taking a step backwards of ten years in protecting the health of persons subject to legal measures. The Ministry of Justice has been informally in favour of this amendment and we hope that it will also be officially, to the end. We have also represented the Council Presidency with the risk that it will deny what was done only two years ago. I would therefore like to point out to the Presidency, to the representatives of the Government and to the Assembly this issue, which may appear small and of little importance in relation to the size of the measure, but which, for particularly fragile subjects, is fundamental, especially because it confirms that regional and central administrations must do what the law requires them to do. Every time they do not - unfortunately sometimes, Regions, ASL and Department of the penitentiary administration have not put in place the measures that would be necessary - we cannot, only for a lack of attention to mental health, go back to the old system with which the issue was dealt. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u27	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, we do not like this reform, for reasons of merit and method. With respect to the method used, I recall that the draft law under discussion is based on a bill presented by the Minister of Justice Orlando, in agreement with the ministers Alfano and Padoan, which largely takes the form of delegation to the Government. And here, Mr President, we are truly paradoxical. It is not acceptable that a rule that intervenes, among other things, in order to change the very delicate discipline of interceptions is not made by Parliament. It is not acceptable that a public and transparent parliamentary debate should be taken away from the citizens. It is not acceptable for this rule to be drawn up in the secret of some ministerial office - hopefully at least it is ministerial - perhaps by the advice and advice of new representatives of the majority such as Denis Verdini who, in the field of interceptions, could certainly have some competence, but not as much guarantee of acting in the public interest. But, beyond the inappropriate choice of delegation, it is quite clear that the delegation law must be or should at least be of parliamentary origin and certainly not of governmental origin, because with the delegation the Parliament places stakes that the Government must respect. But, since in this case the delegation is on the initiative of the Minister of Justice himself, then we are on the paradox of paradoxes: the paradox of a Government that delegates itself to regulate a sensitive matter such as that of interceptions according to criteria and stakes posed by the Government itself. And perhaps he will also put his trust in it, in order to avoid the slightest parliamentary change and even the slightest debate on the amendments. But then, Mr President, what is Parliament's role? What is the role of this Senate? What are we doing here? Are we ratifying decisions taken elsewhere? It seems that what we are witnessing is a real preview of what will happen then usually, every day of the legislature, with the constitutional reform Boschi-Renzi-Verdini. In other words, we will have a humiliated Parliament, a shadow of itself, reduced to the role of ratifying decisions taken somewhere (of course not in Parliament). In short, if this measure is unacceptable in the method, it is even worse on the substance in some respects. I am particularly interested in wiretapping. First of all, this reform gives the government an excessive delegation, essentially a blank delegation, justified with the need to protect the privacy of citizens. It doesn't matter that in Italy there is only one citizen out of 60 million (that is not a politician) who complains about the alleged invasion of confidentiality. Moreover, looking at the data protection database of the Data Protection Supervisor, we find that the cases of actual violation of privacy were twelve in twenty years: nothing at all. Secondly, and as if that were not enough, the magistrates will no longer be free to use the software they consider most suitable for intercepting. They will have to limit themselves to the use of those certified by a political body, i.e. the Ministry of Justice. In other words, it will be the Minister who will communicate every year the computer application that will have to be used, thus giving criminals, corrupts and corrupters the right and correct counter-measures, able to cancel the effect of the investigations against them. Thirdly, those criminals who organize - for example - a dinner at home can no longer be intercepted to talk about bribes, contracts, exchange votes, etc., provided that the magistrate does not have the certainty that criminal activity is taking place there. If, in other words, the magistrate can make use of the wiretapping if he believes that a crime is being committed, he will need to be sure of it in the future. And this is very serious, because it presupposes the flagrantness of the crime and, therefore, excludes this instrument in the vast majority of cases. Fourthly, the bill provides for imprisonment for up to four years for all those - excluded journalists - who broadcast audiovisual footage or recordings of conversations, including telephones, performed fraudulently and likely to cause image damage to the registered subject. This rule represents a potential gag for all citizens, for all those who will no longer be able to make registrations of meetings, meetings or municipal councils, considering that the dissemination of recordings may then have to answer criminally. In fact, the adverb is too generic and a source of great uncertainty. It will raise inevitable doubts both interpretative and applicative. Fifth, the dissemination and publication of intercept results involving public actors, ministers, parliamentarians, regional councillors, mayors or others who are outside the investigation may no longer be permitted. In this way, then, the Lupi cases - remember the Rolex scandal? - Guidi - Trivellopoli scandal, i.e. amendments in exchange for contracts - and Chancellors - scandal of telephone calls to Ligresti - are all scandals that led to the resignation of Ministers of the Republic who probably would never have emerged. Yet it is not only the 5 Star Movement that has serious reservations about this reform: the president of the National Association of Judges, Piercamillo Davigo, has said otherwise, like his predecessor Rodolfo Sabelli. The ANM has declared that a delegation such as this risks transforming the delegated legislator - the Government - into ordinary legislator The Supreme Council of the judiciary noted that the delegation contained in the draft law on the reform of the criminal process presents problematic aspects due to its generic nature. And you understand why: it's basically a blank proxy. A majority senator in the Justice Commission called it "unconstitutional" for the same reason. The chief prosecutors of the major Italian cities, which were audited in the Commission, have also unanimously declared themselves opposed to the intervention of the legislator in the matter of interceptions, mostly defined as "inappropriate." Attorney Spataro recommended that the existing procedures be put in place, adding that it is not possible for the legislator to regulate the relevance of the interceptions. He added that it must be clear that in no way can the Government or Parliament decide a priori what is relevant and what is not, but only the judge in relation to the actual case. And, on the protection of privacy, he added: "Watch the case, it is always and only invoked in the processes to the so-called white collars." How can you blame him? Prosecutor Borrelli recalled that the right of the defenders to access all interceptions is incompressible. He also added that the existing mechanism is satisfied with all the interests at stake. Then why change it? The same prosecutor Pignatone recalled that the publication of interceptions before the deposit is an extremely rare fact. Returning to politics, even Matteo Renzi said on several occasions: "We will not put our hands on the reforms of interceptions." I remember some newspaper headlines to refresh the memory, such as the Republic of: Renzi's tense hand to PMs: I don't touch the intercepts. "Corriere della Sera": "Interceptions," does not change. "The Messenger": "Renzi: I don't touch the intercepts": "The Journal": "Renzi" takes back the reform of the intercepts": "The Unit": "Renzi ai PM: "No change to the intercepts": "Freedom": "Renzi: "I won't touch the intercepts": "I won't touch the intercepts": "No change to the intercepts": "No change to the intercepts": "Freedom": "Renzi: "I won't touch the intercepts": "No change to the intercepts": "No change to the intercepts": "No change to the intercepts": "No change to the intercepts." In fact, we are here to discuss the exact opposite of what the President-in-Office of the Council has said. Of course, we all know in here that Renzi is a serial and compulsive liar. But at least give me the opportunity to remind the citizens once again. Personally, on wiretapping, I think of it as follows: On interceptions we cannot go against the European Court of Justice, which places the right of news first of all, even before the right to privacy - in particular but not only - of politicians. No one has been ordered by the doctor to do politics and by those who do it, he must do it also to set an example. The politician represents the institutions and therefore there are no private behaviors which do not affect public credibility. Well, I think so, but those just read aren't my words. These are statements from the number two Democratic Party, Debora Serracchiani. And if the statements of Renzi and Serracchiani for you of the PD do not make text, I would like to remind you then the words of Minister Orlando on the interceptions, pronounced when he was still responsible for justice of the PD: With the excuse of privacy, Berlusconi - then - aims to block the freedom of information (...). I have to doubt that the Orlando of that time is the same as it is now. Even the PD minority, with Bersani, had to declare on the interceptions: "Moody's downgraded us and we talk about interceptions. This is a government that only thinks about its own affairs. Bersani could not be better prophet at home. We were in 2011 and he was obviously referring to the Berlusconi Government. He couldn't know that Renzi would go the same way five years later. If both Bersani and Serracchiani are not part of this Senate, then it may be useful to remember what the PD Parent Company has been able to state on the subject in the Justice Committee on interceptions: We will avoid in every way that the country is once again dragged into the logic of the ad personam laws. Interceptions, especially in the fight against mafias and corruption, are an indispensable investigative tool. We will therefore oppose any attempt (...) to restrict its use. It was 2013. Precisely on the subject of ad personam laws, this law was perhaps not signed by the Minister of Economics and Finance Padoan, the same person that Minister Guidi, intercepted, described as being placed there by the oil clique. And then we talk about ad personam laws? In short, recapitulating, there are no numbers in hand, no need and need to protect privacy. The ANM, the CSM and all audit prosecutors were openly opposed and Renzi himself made statements on contrary statements on the subject. Why, then, does this delegation continue to be imposed on Parliament by government and majority? Reasonably, it should be exceeded because of both the guidelines on interceptions, which have already been issued by as many as 19 prosecutors, and the CSM resolution on the same subject. Surely this delegation is not done in the interest of citizens, who daily think of everything less than to be intercepted and violated in privacy. (Applause from the right) Let's be clear: this delegation has been designed to protect politics and politicians from interceptions, to reduce the danger that inconvenient interceptions into power can become public domain. And that is understandable, if we think that three Ministers of the Republic have had to resign in this parliamentary term, not without shame, following the publication of their interceptions of absolute seriousness. In any other country in the world, politics would have taken advantage of these scandals to improve the selection of its representatives, especially in terms of values, ethics. In Italy, instead, we intervene on interceptions, as if the cause of the numerous scandals that have occurred were the publication of the inconvenient interceptions to politics, rather than the serious behaviors to be condemned that those same interceptions have made public. This, therefore, appears the real objective of the delegation: in a country where corruption is a primary national emergency, the citizen must not receive information that disturbs the power and those who exercise it. It is quite evident that, then, we are faced with specialists of the gag turning that, depending on the type of interceptions that end up in the newspapers, change their point of view. If the intercepts involve members of a center-right government, it is the center-right representatives who propose a grip on the intercepts and the center-left ones pretend to oppose it. If, however, the intercepts concern members of the central-left government, then it is the central-left parliamentarians who are trying to go exactly the same way, as is happening now. With regard to the reform of the prescription, we come to discuss it after for years we have witnessed its oblivion in a drawer, the strategic absences of the rapporteur, the substantial boycott by the majority forces of a divisive measure, that is, capable of injuring the majority and the government itself. To illustrate our proposal on the reform of the prescription, I would like to use the words of the chairman of the study committee on criminal proceedings at the Ministry of Justice, Giovanni Canzio, and Professor Giorgio Spangher: "Total sharing of the choice of paralysis of the effects of the prescription with the conviction of first degree, a thesis I have repeatedly supported. The knowledge that there is a possible procedural outlet to the process, i.e. not having to proceed with a prescription intervention, perverts the proper function of the process. On the subject, Professor Spangher expressed himself as follows: The lengthening of the time of the prescription and, therefore, the impossibility of obtaining, on the time of the trial, an acquiescence, will lead to an alternative: access to these rites that have content of condemnation, with acceptance of the condemnation on the material of the prosecution, or play the debate on the material of the accusation In short, a minimum rule of law would be restored in our country, re-introduced a reasonable certainty of the penalty and encouraging alternative rites. But it is not just a question of the effectiveness of prosecution. Suspending limitation periods from referral to court or judgment at first instance would have significant repercussions on the same duration of the proceedings. As Davigo says: If we want to make the administration of justice a serious matter, we must reduce the number of proceedings and, above all, the number of purely dilatory appeals, hoping that the matter will be prescribed or, in any case, manifestly unfounded that they are presented. It follows that the reform of the prescription would represent an extraordinary vehicle of reduction of the duration of the trials, going to free the courts of all those appeals submitted only for dilatory purpose, waiting and hoping for the prescription. In short, at the time of prosecution, a civil and democratic system should say that the prescription no longer exists. I recall, in this sense, that the President emeritus of the Santacroce Cassation defined the prescription as "an intolerable abdication of the State." How can you blame him? With 130,000 prescriptions per year, we have 400 criminal trials prescribed per day in Italy. The climate of impunity that reigns in our country is evident. The lack of certainty of punishment makes corruption beneficial for criminals. Corrocating, as well as committing the crimes proper to white collars, is an activity that does not create risks, because convictions are avoidable thanks to the prescription. The European Union report on the fight against corruption reads: On several occasions the Italian Parliament has approved or tried to pass ad personam laws in favour of politicians accused in criminal proceedings, including corruption offences. An example of this is the Law on Short Prescription, which involves the high risk of seeing proceedings being extinguished by incensored suspects. For the European Union, the current rule of limitation is even incompatible with EU law, so much so that judges are invited to disapply it. So now the crimes against the European Union in Italy are never prescribed, all the others almost always! A rule of one line would be sufficient, suspending the starting date of the limitation from referral to court or from the judgment of first instance, to resolve the problem once and for all. Every different solution, mediated with those who have no interest in making justice work in our country, represents an unacceptable downward compromise. We miss a historic opportunity to restore confidence to citizens in justice, to re-appropriate that legal certainty that for too many years now in our country is only a faint memory and, not least, to make the processes much faster, thanks to the greater impulse that it would achieve, in following the alternative rites. I would remind you that the revision of the statute of limitations is one of the recommendations that the European Council addressed to Italy in July 2013 as an important factor in combating corruption. Even the OECD in its 2015 report, if on the one hand it does not mention at all the most useless and harmful constitutional reform in the history of the Republic (as lied has been repeatedly affirmed by members of the majority), on the other hand it strongly states that, in order to stimulate Italian economic development, a law of serious reform of the prescription, which is not done, is necessary. Mr President, I shall conclude. I am fully aware that the majority of this Parliament will never find the courage and strength to vote on a reform of the statute of limitations as we wish, i.e. with the suspension of the period from referral to trial or from the judgment at first instance. Such a reform would essentially nullify any chance of getting away with it and would make the opening of prison doors much more likely, especially to many corrupt politicians at all levels. That is why you will not accept it, despite the statements made and recorded several times by your Parent Company in the Commission Justice, according to which the official position of the Democratic Party on the prescription would be in line with the 5 Star Movement's proposal, and despite the many signatures that you MPs of the Democratic Party have put to drafts or amendments that went exactly in the direction we wanted. These measures are announced and then ambushed, withdrawn or removed to which the signatures have been removed so as not to displace Alfano, Verdini, Schifani, Formigoni or Azzollini. It is the triumph of hypocrisy. Don't worry, though, because they will give due consideration to the voters at the earliest possible election. As soon as we have sent you home, we will reform the statute of limitations with good peace for those who, even now and also in this House, believe that they can always get away with it, just as they have been doing for too long. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u30	Mr President, Article 111 of the Constitution states: Each trial shall take place in the context of a dispute between the parties, on a level playing field, before a third and impartial court. The law ensures its reasonable duration. The draft law in question contains a number of rules which - the rapporteurs assure us - will allow us to make processes shorter and, therefore, to respect the provisions of the Constitution much more than is the case today. On the contrary, I would frankly say that today, very often, the reasonable duration of the trials is not there, so much so that Italy has already received condemnations for this by supranational bodies. This is what the measure seems to have, provided that it is true what is proposed and that this is not also the case, like almost all the other reforms proposed by this Government, in which the title of the bill is beautiful, but then the content does not correspond (and, if by chance it corresponds to the intentions, does not correspond then in the results). Anyway, let's assume this is it. We have suffered a symptom that tells us that this is probably not going to happen, because - at the same time - we are being proposed an excessive increase in the timing of the prescription. If the processes are done faster, one could not intervene on the issue of the prescription, which had already been touched eleven years ago, with the result, among other things, of a strong reduction - which, over the years, has become a half-life - of the processes that fall into prescription. I am referring to data that has been provided to us by the Ministry of Justice, therefore, the most authoritative in that the Ministry is the only one who can certify them. What is being done about the fact that the prescription has been reduced and that a provision in the Constitution states that the process must have a reasonable duration? The limitation period is extended. There are two cases: either you are doing a schizophrenic thing (i.e. you are doing a totally irrational thing), or you already know that the norms contained in the measure, presented as useful to shorten the duration of the processes, will not actually work or even produce the opposite effect. As I said, we record an extension of the time limit. Of course, if we evaluate the measure on the basis of the need to punish the criminal, it is important that this be punished sooner than later, but better after never. This is a criterion that is present in the measure. But we know that in trials and judicial events they do not always run into the guilty, and in any case it will be the trial that ascertains their guilt. Otherwise, let's do a nice lynching right away and there is no longer a problem of prescription, of the length of time and of the lawyers who defend their protectors and we will quickly come to the conclusion. Since, however, the rule of law, not since today but always, provides for a trial in which the truth is established, the trial should serve; and the trial serves because not all defendants are guilty by definition. Otherwise, if they were already guilty, what would be the point of the trial? We hang the defendant right away and then, if anything, we'll do the trial, as the characters of some spaghetti Western movie say. Instead, the trial serves, precisely because there are also innocent defendants. On the contrary, we could make a long list of famous defendants who were later found innocent: not according to their friends or according to the popular sentiment, but according to the courts of the Italian Republic and also those of other countries. We start from the assumption that it seems logical (and it should not even be necessary to explain it), so even those who are innocent can be subjected to judicial proceedings. Otherwise, I repeat, there would be no need for the trial. So, we have to think about them, too. The prescription, that is, the limitation of the times within which a person can be persecuted by justice, is thought just starting from the banal assumption that a person subject to judicial action can be innocent. Now, all that has been said in the intervention that preceded me, about the fact that, even after two hundred years, the villain must be taken, is right. But we must also think that, just as there may be the bad guy, who is right to pay sooner or later, so there may be the innocent guy, and it is right that, not sooner or later, but sooner, he should be tried and be found guilty or innocent. If he is innocent, he is supposed to be declared innocent. Of course, it does not always happen, but so it should be, and it is in each one's efforts to make this happen. Justice can be wrong, so much so that justice provides for three degrees of judgment. We know that the third is not equal to the second but, in this regard, an analogy comes to mind here: it is said that Chamber and Senate do the same work; well, also the court of first instance and the second degree do the same work, yet, in the civil systems of the whole world they are previewed, precisely because the court can err. And then I say, out of the question, that even a parliamentary chamber can make mistakes. On the one hand, it is said that politicians are all ugly and bad, but on the other, it is said that they are infallible (therefore only one opinion of Parliament is enough, and we are not even talking about corrections). However, on the way back to trial, there are people who are unjustly tried, even if an innocent person should not even be tried, possibly. After that, it is clear that there is a whole mechanism that leads to this and, even in order to have a guarantee that not all those brought to trial are condemned, we must guarantee these people decent terms of end to their sufferings. For the truth, this also applies to the guilty. Even the perpetrator has the right, sooner or later, to be judged by a judgment, against which he can appeal or, at least, protest, stating that the judgment considers him guilty on the basis of certain evidence that is non-existent. In the meantime, however, he will serve his sentence. That is why the limitation period exists. And it also exists in the name, and even before, of that constitutional rule that the process takes place on an equal footing. There can be no equality between the defendant and the State that accuses him: in fact the prosecutor who accuses is called the prosecutor nothing less than the Republic. I believe that all of us who have seen some judicial TV shows have been impressed by the formula in which a trial begins in the United States (we do not, because they do not say so, but they do). For example, the state of Texas against Mr Smith is said to be the state of Texas. Damn it, the fight is hard: poor Mr. Smith is alone, maybe he's poor, maybe he has a lawyer who's not much, while the state of Texas is great and powerful. The same thing happens with us: it is the Republic, of which the accuser is precisely the prosecutor, against Mr. Rossi. Mr Rossi must have the right to defend himself, the Republic has the right to condemn Mr Rossi if he is found guilty, but there must be a foot of equality. There is no parity in a game if a part has in hand the possibility to determine when the game ends. There would be no equality at any sporting meeting where one party had the opportunity to determine how long this meeting lasts. Then there is not only the possibility that, in good faith, an innocent person will be held years and years "in slap" in a situation of which we must consider not only the psychological aspects of this person, but also the social aspects. To a person who is acquitted after 30 years, what do they say? I'm so sorry. We kept you on trial for 30 years, but were you innocent? But in thirty years, this person has had his life destroyed. And it takes much, much less than thirty years for an accused person to see his or her life destroyed: destroyed families, reset professional prestige, loss of work and income. That's why it's good that there are limits. Add that it is not impossible for some magistrates to have a certain will; certainly a minority, but it can happen. First we talked about the typical case of trial, that of the politician; it is not so: the typical process is not to a person who deals with politics (but this also happens naturally). Beyond politics, there is a risk that a judge who is not able to bring to the sentence a person to whom he has hostility will do the worst thing: while knowing his innocence, unable to make him condemn as innocent, he makes sure that the trial goes on for a very long time, so that the life of this person is still ruined. The dishonest magistrates - alas - exist, as can happen for all the offices that include more than one person (but also for the offices that concern only one person). After all, there are bodies that are there to judge any faults of magistrates who do not do their job well (then how deeply they do it is another matter), so it can happen. Then there must be a limit. The magistrate may have an hostility, perhaps even justified. For example, that magistrate who wanted to put Al Capone in prison in the United States, failing to put him in prison for the many heinous crimes, murders and everything else he had committed, managed to do so for tax evasion. He certainly had an hostility to this person, but he had a limited time within which to execute his own accusations; this is a very important aspect. We need protection for everyone, we need protection for the state, and then let us remember that the prescription facilitates and encourages the lengthening of the processes, in general, leaving aside cases of malanimity or even partiality of the judge. We know very well from the news and very well from what the magistrates themselves say, namely that by seeking commendably not to send to the prescription of trials, those who are close to the prescription will accelerate them. What do we do here? We extend the prescription as if to say that there is time to do the trial. Are we doing a rational thing by reducing process times and then extending the prescription? I don't think so. Alongside this, there are some other problems in the bill under consideration, about which Senator Caliendo spoke in depth. I am struck by two aspects: the reordering of the penitentiary system and the reordering of the discipline concerning telephone interceptions. The previous Senator Cappelletti mentioned the many occasions when the President of the Council, and not only him (even the Minister of Justice), said he would not change the prescriptions. Strangely enough, even in that case, as in almost everyone else, the President-in-Office of the Council then denied himself and is doing exactly something else. Then they will judge the voters; they should judge the Members, but I have some doubt that the majority constraints really allow a calm and fair judgment, which I hope there is, because of the ability that colleagues certainly have to do so. Having said that, reforming these two important areas of our legal system by delegation - which, of course, has certain criteria laid down precisely, but others extremely vague - does not seem very appropriate to me. In this way, in fact, it gives a strong discretion to the Government to modulate, and we know very well how a little word more or less in a bill can change things enormously; let alone a law that concerns criminal law or penitentiary law, in which really a little word more or less can ensure that a certain crime is still prosecutable and another no. Let all this be entrusted to people who do not even know what they are, and then Parliament has the opportunity - goodness of the government! - to give an opinion - often, in the area of justice, such opinions are totally ignored, it does not make me feel so quiet. I'll finish. The previous speaker - as I said - spoke of the numerous occasions when the President of the Council said that he would never touch the discipline of interceptions, whereas now he has decided to do so, in addition by delegation, that is, entrusting to himself practically the task of writing the norm. Well, putting it together with today's main article in the new daily newspaper "The Truth" about certain interceptions that concern the family of the President of the Council, it occurred to me the famous phrase of that Genoese actor who, having been announced to him that someone, his acquaintance, had died, said: Well, if he died, it's because he had his convenience! If the President of the Council has changed his mind, perhaps it is because he had his convenience, and perhaps the convenience lies in writing him the changes, also in relation to the topics of which the article on the front page of "The Truth" today speaks. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lo Giudice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u32	Mr President, with the measure we are discussing today, we are putting another important part of the necessary reform of the justice machine in our country, which today represents one of the most challenging challenges for this Government, for this majority and for the whole country. We know well how a series of malfunctions that concern precisely the justice machine are deeply connected with a series of malfunctions of the country system, of the Italy system, which concern not only the issue of the greater protection of citizens' rights, but the very functioning of our system. They concern the ability of Italy to be attractive to the example of international investments; the ability to be a country that functions, overcoming that wide range of evils that - from corruption to the most general lack of rules, to the inability to see in the judicial system an effective place of protection of the rights of the person - puts in crisis or represents an important limit compared to the fact that Italy is a country considered, according to new, modern, demanding criteria, a state of law in full order. I would like to comment briefly on the issue of limitation and then concentrate my speech on a subject which I am very interested in and which concerns the penitentiary system and its modification. On the prescription, together with Senator Ricchiuti and Senator Tocci, I had presented a proposal that indicated a different model than that adopted by this measure. It is a proposal that, by making precisely a reasoning that finds strong support and sharing in doctrine, went to distinguish two elements, which we with a general term call prescription, but which are actually very different from each other. In other words, I am referring to that stage, at that purely chronological time, which runs from the commission of the crime to the start of the proceedings and which is clearly marked by an expectation or interest on the part of the State to which a crime is being prosecuted, but which, on the other hand, finds its limit in the citizen's need not to see Damocles' sword of a process that lasts forever; then there is another time that, in my opinion, is improperly considered to be one with the first and that of the trial. That proposal indicated a clear distinction between these two phases: a substantial period of limitation, but which was finally interrupted at the time of the initiation of the procedure, but accompanied this with a second period of limitation, i.e. no longer linked to the chronological passage of time, but to the different passages of the process. In this second period, the reasonable duration of each passage could have led to a lowering of the sanction provided for, until its total annulment for the citizen who was forced by the length of the trial to an excessive expectation of his right to be tried in a short time. This was a way which I hope will be taken into account in the future, but which obviously has not found a majority and a possible sharing today. We have therefore chosen a different model and I hope and think that following this path we can intervene in a more profitable way than our country's need to strike those who commit crimes, especially those whose frequent prescription (I think of the crimes of white collars) is a source of scandal motivated for the public opinion of our country. With regard to the limitation issue, together with other senators, I have signed a couple of amendments which I hope will be taken into account by this House and which relate to certain specific cases. I am referring to Amendment 7107 on environmental crimes and Amendment 7108 on manslaughter in violation of labour law. In these two extreme cases where the good of life is at stake and in situations in which even a long time it is possible to identify those responsible for the crime (only in these situations) these amendments propose that the term of the prescription should decorate from the moment when the news of the crime is acquired or reached the prosecutor. This is a principle which, if taken as a general principle, would find a clear limit in the citizen's right not to be tried at a time too distant from the commission of the crime, but that compared to serious environmental crimes or serious violations of labour standards involving the death of human beings finds its reason to be as an exception to the general principle. I come to the subject of the reform of the penitentiary system, which is contained in Title IV of the measure under consideration today. I want to welcome a part: I refer specifically to Article 36, containing the principles of delegation to the Government for the reform of the penitentiary order, which in my opinion takes positive account, in a structured way, of that important process that has been represented by the General States of criminal execution, whose work has taken place in recent months and which have seen the work and comparison of the best energies that in our country, in a different way, are concerned with the penitentiary order and have inspired a series of measures that find a realization here. Of this part of the elements indicated in the delegation to the Government for the reform of the penitentiary order I want to emphasize some aspects, starting from the facilitation of the use of alternative measures to the detention. In these two and a half years since the beginning of this parliamentary term, we have already implemented a series of measures aimed at reducing prison overcrowding; we have done so on the basis of a negative judgment, a sanction by the European Court of Human Rights, which had condemned us for the overcrowding of our prisons. But this action can continue even today that overcrowding exists but is very limited in numbers compared to what happened only a couple of years ago. This road can lead us to reason more fruitfully on the issue of criminal execution, investing more on alternative measures to detention, the privileged road to social reintegration, to the reduction of relapse and to the overcoming of a situation of crime that, for a democratic state and of law, must be important points of reference in the perspective not only of a humanity of punishment, but also of the efficiency of the system and a limitation of the criminal activity in our country. We know very well - and all the data confirm this - how the recurrence decreases where there is the possibility of access to alternative sanctions to detention. Well, then, the insertion of rules that facilitate the use of alternative measures; good the elimination of those preventative automatisms of the possibility of taking advantage of alternative measures to the prison and good also the overcoming, under certain conditions and subject to certain particular crimes, of the foreclosure of the benefits to those who are sentenced to the sentence of life imprisonment. I want to underline one of the principles of delegation, contained in letter n) of paragraph 1 of Article 36: the recognition of the right to affection of persons held and interned. In this respect, I hope - and I have tabled an amendment to this effect - that this House will be able to pay greater attention to this point, so that we can take care of a need that is no longer procrastinable: that the sanction of detention is not accompanied by a process of stealing and sterilization of the affective and family relations of the persons detained. On the one hand, there is the objective, precisely, of a correct, healthy and positive social reintegration, also from the point of view of their family and their affective network, by those who are sentenced to a longer or less long detention. But here are also the rights of other innocent people, who are the family members of the person incarcerated, often condemned to a hellish life and the impossibility (let's think of the little children) to manage humanly dignified relationships with their relatives in prison. For this reason it is necessary to specify the content of this principle of delegation, including, for example, the provision of interviews with family members in places without visual inspection by third parties or meeting with family members in specific areas and the forecast of an increase in the number of minutes per week dedicated to the possibility of calling home or a replacement of those interviews, which often those who have distant family members cannot do, with further minutes of telephone conversation. They would all be measures that would go in the direction of making prison a place that effectively prepares prisoners for social reintegration and not a place of production of relapse. I would like to remind you of a number of other measures which have been included in the measure following the adoption of amendments tabled by my Group in the Commission. I am referring, for example, to rules that consider the specific needs of women in prison. Today, the fact that women represent, from the percentage point of view, a very small quantity compared to the total prison population means that the detention system is man-made and that the specific characteristics of women during the period of detention are not adequately taken into account. One thing in particular I would like to stress, and I am grateful to the Government for giving a favourable opinion to the Commission on this amendment, which also incorporates a draft of my own law: I am referring to the need to ensure that, even for pregnant women or mothers of very young children detained in a temporary prison situation, the mandatory principle that our legal system provides for pregnant women or very young children who are finally condemned, that is to say, the total incompatibility with the detention situation. Today we are experiencing the paradox that a woman condemned with a small child can enjoy alternative situations to detention, whereas instead a woman who is in prison pending judgment can be subjected to a discretionary judgment by the judge. The principle of delegation, which this measure has already done to it by means of an amendment approved in the Commission, provides that even the accused subject to a precautionary measure will be guaranteed the same situation of suspension of detention until the child or children have reached their first year of age. Then there is another point that always concerns the rights of the people in prison: I am referring to the issue of freedom of worship. Today, within our prisons, there is no principle of equal recognition of the right to freedom of religion for those who profess different religions. For those professed religions other than Catholic religions, there is often a total difficulty with regard to the possibility of living their religiosity within the places of detention. On the other hand, it would be very important that, as far as possible in a situation of equality, everyone should be guaranteed the possibility of expressing their freedom of worship. Again, I would like to stress another aspect of the measure: the fact that we overcome the inconsistency whereby ancillary measures - I am thinking, for example, of bans on public offices or the loss of voting rights - are often longer than the duration of the main sentence. This is a vulnus that must be repaired - and this measure takes charge of it - for a very simple reason: burdening a person who has completed the period of detention with an impediment to a full social reintegration means overturning the logic that wants the State to take charge of accompanying (and this unfortunately still happens in an absolutely insufficient way today) the person who has served his sentence and who has paid his debt with justice towards a positive reintegration in society. I want to end by taking up a subject that is very close to my heart, which has been dealt with extensively by Senator Dirindin and which concerns the issue of the health residences that we launched at the time when those desolate structures that were the OPGs, i.e. psychiatric judicial hospitals, were overcome. I have firmly signed the amendment, at first signed by Mr Dirindin, which restores that principle whereby within the health residences, the REMS, intended for those in a situation of psychic instability, have access only to those persons whose state has been definitively established and who pay a final penalty, leaving instead those whose psychic state has been established subsequently in relation to the judgment or whose health situation must be definitively verified can instead stay and be housed in the detention institutions anyway. However, I would like to add that such a clear distinction between those who can have access to institutions such as REMS, who want to be not places of detention, but places mainly of care, even if of supervised care, and those who find themselves, having a psychic discomfort, having to serve a sentence within a detention institution, finds its foundation in another principle of delegation which is contained in letter l) of paragraph 1 of Article 36, where there is talk of strengthening the psychiatric assistance of prison institutions. In fact, keeping people living in a situation of psychic discomfort within the detention institutions today means taking - and this provision does - a specific commitment so that, in fact, within these institutions, there is that strengthening of psychiatric assistance that, as a result of the reorganization of prison medicine, provided for by Legislative Decree No. 230 of 1999, also ensures that the prison institution can fulfil this obligation of law in the most profitable way possible. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u33	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u34	Mr President, we are talking about reform and therefore we naturally expect an overall measure: a measure which, in fact, originally had the ambition to solve a whole series of problems that are before everyone's eyes and which afflict criminal justice. Now we are faced with a measure which, because of a legitimate and positive work in the Commission, but also in relation to the text that came from the House, is extremely heterogeneous. It is heterogeneous in content, but also in the way of preparing this content and in the tools that are activated. Therefore, the problems of criminal justice have been the subject of numerous debates in this House. Surely the draft law disposes above all on the procedural side, going down in detail. Let us ask ourselves how much of the operation of justice, rather than depend on the intervention of the legislator, depends on the activity of the Executive, that is, the Ministry of Justice and all its articulations, which should create the conditions for having all the necessary resources, so that the legislator is not continuously forced to a series of adjustments and interventions, which, as happens with the measure under consideration, are however very detailed for some crimes and completely non-existent for others. There is also a great contradiction in this respect. On the one hand, there is the raising of penalties for crimes against property, and on the other hand, there are delegations to greatly promote alternative measures to detention. We must be careful: to favour alternative measures on the one hand, however, through a path that has been adopted several times by this House, and on the other hand to follow the sirens linked to reasons of immediate consent - I understand and understand it - by raising the penalties, for example, for theft and for other crimes that are now particularly hateful, can generate an imbalance within the system. I would also like to make a personal philosophical remark: I honestly do not appreciate that at the level of parliamentary debate and the rethinking of justice there is a continuous, slow and dripping interest and attention to crimes against property, public and private, and at the same time there is a continuous decrease in attention to crimes against the person. I believe that this does not help a statement, which then passes also through phenomena of cultural osmosis, and an adequate realization of the culture of respect for people and also, at a later stage, respect for the heritage and all that is the territory of the public. The changes are also heterogeneous with respect to their own wording. On the one hand, we have very specific interventions, on the other hand, we have extensive delegations. In specific interventions and delegations, there is a principle that has been exhibited over and over again, including in the press and during the work in the Commission. In this regard, I would like to thank the Minister, who has always been present and has actually paid attention to the debate in the Commission and a willingness to accept the comments, which we have not found with other Ministers - in this regard I have had the tragic experience of Mr Giannini - who have never presented themselves, who still do not appear and do not answer the questions and have not accepted any of the comments made. I have to say that Mr Orlando has presented himself, accepted, reasoned and discussed, and this has certainly given dignity to the work of the Commission, which other Members of this House do not do. However, it is also true that, in proposing to transpose solutions, deriving from those experts and legal practitioners mentioned several times, the objective has not actually been achieved to fully transpose the result of these tables and these commissions, and the same applies to the general states for criminal execution, which cited Senator Lo Giudice - in a few minutes I will get to talk more punctually about this aspect - because the solution that was negotiated in the end is certainly unbalanced. In fact, the data show that the greatest flooding occurs at the stage of preliminary investigations and that it has intervened after the judgment of first or second instance. The message I want to give, as far as the prescription is concerned, which is a very passionate subject, is that the problem would still be solved if the courts were put in a position to work with all the resources available and to carry out the trials. In the delegations, which are a substantial part, the solutions that can be adopted are not precisely declined, so much so that Senator Lo Giudice just said that he proposed an amendment for greater articulation. Senator Lo Giudice is well aware that the options to give normative solutions could be multiple and not corresponding to what everyone thinks should be covered with these delegations. We now come to the subject that I care about, on which I will also come back when we talk about the amendments, if that is possible. I am referring to the issue of residences for the implementation of security measures (EMS). In this respect, I would like to retrace the path within the Justice Commission. I would like to remind Senator Lo Giudice and the other Senators of the PD of the Justice Commission that the subject of the REMS has been the subject of a debate, of amendments by the rapporteurs, of attempts to reformulate, sub-amendments, votes and speeches by the Minister. The Commission as a whole, including the PD component, has approved the text out, which was the proposal of the undersigned. He also proposed another amendment, which was accepted by the Commission and which Senator Lo Giudice had the pleasure of recalling, concerning the strengthening of psychiatric care. The real issue is that, however, the law of closure of judicial psychiatric hospitals in practice has shown that the issue is much more complex than the text wanted to propose and that, perhaps, it has not dared to propose. When I asked that the node of care be dealt with in a contextual way, but also of danger, the debate was born. Now, the apocalyptic tones, which Senator Dirindin uses when considering the approved text, are evidence of the fact that, in reality, the sanitary joints, to which Senator Lo Giudice also appealed, are totally inadequate. The fact that today we want to create a restricted audience by law with a certain rigid definition is the signal that we have the most complete awareness that the rest is a no man's land and, that is, that on the rest there has not been the necessary investment at all. I would like to refer to the current text. There are three keywords that, in the tones concerned, point out the problem: "priority", "and "and" and "when." "Prioritarily" in the REMS there go the exonerated, as the Senators Dirindin, De Biasi and all the others, "as well as the other "s" in the penitentiary institutions have not been activated those joints that by law should be there. The fact that one is afraid of this formulation is proof that it is well known that the health system and the penitentiary system are certainly not in the immediate - and perhaps not in the immediate - condition of being able to give true answers to the population to which we in this House have said that we have closed the OPGs. Gentlemen, we didn't close the OPGs. While that law said that the fundamental principle is care, today instead from the same health care that told us that we must first of all cure we see ourselves represented of problems of definition as in the case of exonerates and prisoners. Now let's make the difference between exiles and inmates. We used to talk about sick people. There is a distinction between temporary and definitive security measures; first - I repeat - we were concerned about the sick. Now let's make the distinction between A-sick and B-sick. That's fine with me, but we have to be clear about it. The amendment that we have all approved in the Commission on the enhancement of mental health care and care in prison is sacrosanct, but the fact that today we are concerned about the concatenation of "primarily" and "when" is the most obvious sign that these structures will not be invested or, in any case, will not be done everywhere and that the problem will not be solved. This is also the sign that these are really the last of the last - I repeat, the last of the last - because, moreover, they are not even subjects to which an electoral consensus can be sought. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Martelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u35	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u36	Mr President, I do not think that I will use all the time available, because I have already developed a number of arguments in the debate on this question, especially on the most important political issue of this measure, which is the limitation. I believe that Mr D'Anna has made a very valuable point which I think is totally underestimated here, namely that the problem of justice concerns citizens. In a rule of law and democracy, a citizen has a sacrosanct right: when he is accused of a particular crime, the State has a moral, political, legal and constitutional duty to say, at a reasonable time, whether he is guilty or innocent. We need to move from a real analysis of the situation of public order and corruption in the country. I was amazed to hear today, once again, incredible things. Some Members have again mentioned the phenomenon of perceived corruption. The colossal bale of the 60 billion euros of corruption in Italy is still echoed, denied by everyone and also by the Court of Auditors. It is as if, in environmental matters, laws were made, not on the real climate, but on the perceived one. These are really amazing things. We are legislators, and we must start from safe and reliable data, and then come to conclusions. The Ministry of Justice has documented that the so-called ex-Cirielli law has halved - I repeat, halved - the cases of prescription and, again, we have heard from colleagues that after the adoption of such a law the phenomenon of prescription has exploded. What are we talking about? Are we kidding the Italians? We will have to discuss the treatment to solve the problem, but when the diagnosis is certain, safe and based on government data we do not understand why we should continue to mystify, unless - I see that the rapporteurs are present - they have some direction. Sometimes, when I see colleagues Casson and Lumia, I think of a prayer that perhaps - especially Senator Casson - wants to translate in the following way: the eternal process gives them, O Lord. I am referring to the idea that when a citizen stumbles into a judicial affair, he must potentially be on trial for the rest of his life (as the trial is, in itself, the penalty he deserves), to which he must submit for one, two, five, ten, thirty or forty years, without the State being pleased to tell him whether he is innocent or guilty. I have already pointed out another Italian vice, understandable if someone had read and understood Manzoni when at school they made us read the Manzoni screams. What are Manzoni's screams? This is the paroxysm with which, in a Spanish way, ever stricter and more persecutory laws were enacted (portraits of rope, torture, etc.). Manzoni rightly said that, the more he insisted on relaunching, the more the laws were not implemented. We are now turning our hands, for the third or fourth time in four years, back to criminal law. Let's once again change the prescription after Mario Monti explained to us that with his measures he would give a decisive blow to corruption (we were in 2011, if I don't err), except then - I have already told - listen to Cantone tell us that solemn nonsense, already denounced as such, of the 8,000 anti-corruption plans, the fact that every Italian municipality must provide an anti-corruption plan and that every official is responsible and will be suspended from the service if a fact of corruption happens. Canton says that 5,000 or 6,000 officials have done so, but that these are pieces of paper naturally ended up in the mechanism of a further bureaucratic multiplication and the thousand stumbling blocks in which the citizen entrepreneur finds himself dealing with the Italian public administration. So, it's not just a prescription. The problem is that the prescription leads to an increase in penalties for the crimes that I will then quote (as it is necessary for citizens and lawyers to know what we are doing, crime by crime). In trials, having raised the minimum and maximum penalties (and in this Senator D'Anna is perfectly right), they will begin with the arrest. It begins with the arrest of the suspect (and perhaps, Senator D'Anna also has in mind some specific cases). This defendant is held in jail for one, two or three years, without the trial against him beginning: not without being acquitted or sentenced, but without even starting the trial at first instance. As I have said and continue to repeat, without mentioning cases already reported by me, the more unjustified the arrest, the more the error of the magistrate is striking, the more that trial will not be done. And that's not because the guy who went to jail doesn't want the trial to be held anymore. I've mentioned cases where the suspects are pushing wildly to have a trial that will restore their goodness. This is true for those who remain alive because, in the meantime, the arrested, then released pending trial, may also have died. I'm talking about years and years: three years, four years, five years, six years before the first degree process. Allowed, then, that whoever was arrested still remembers the reasons for the fact. I refer to the cases of Eagle or Terni, but I could cite dozens of cases of this kind. So, we raised our pains in such a way that we leave with the arrest. Then, what have we done with this provision? I remember, in fact, that we have just raised pains that had already been raised at the time of Monti. Explaining it to the listener, I'll explain what's going on. In case of corruption for the exercise of the function, today we go from six years to seven years and six months, as it was before Law No 69 of 2015. These changes bring the end to nine years. So, the prescription comes to nine years, but if there is a suspension you get to twelve years or more. In fact, if the suspensions are repeated, they can be exceeded even 12 years. With regard to corruption by act contrary to office duties, it goes from the ten years foreseen before the law of 2015, to the twelve years and six months in force, to the fifteen years foreseen by this reform that, in the case of suspension, lead to eighteen years or more of trial. Corruption in judicial proceedings ranges from twelve years and six months before the reform, to fifteen years before the reform in force, up to eighteen years of this reform, which, however, with the suspension, can reach up to 21 years and more of a trial on the part of the citizen. For corruption in judicial acts (at the first period) we go from the fifteen years before the reform, to the seventeen years and six months of the current one, to the twenty-one years of this reform. With the suspension, however, you get to twenty-four years or more. Article 319-b, on corruption in judicial proceedings, provided for a limitation period of twenty-five years at the second time. This term is extended to thirty years and can reach thirty-three years or more. Thirty-three years or more means that if a middle-aged person stumbles into a charge of this kind he must hope to live as long as Andreotti did with his famous trial (although there the accusation was different). We expect, in fact, with this law - know it, citizens - that a citizen may remain under trial even more than thirty-three years for such a crime. Then there is the undue injunction to give or promise usefulness: here too we have gone from the ten years before to the thirteen years and six months present and already in force (they are already deliberate increases), to the fifteen years and nine months with this law; adding the usual questions that I said before, we get to eighteen years and nine months. That is what the good rapporteur proposes, because the bad rapporteur tells us that the term of limitation must be eternal, like the requiem: there must be no limit that the state places itself in order to pursue a citizen. The citizen can theoretically stay on trial for the rest of his life. I do not know how the Government will remove this issue: whether it will put the House back on these amendments which put one rapporteur against another or put confidence in it. But I would like to point out that, even if we do so with confidence, we will pass on a text on which there is a small political problem that I would like to stress. I heard AL-A's colleagues say that they will not vote for trust. Moreover, the representative of the party of which I was a member, NCD People's Area, had come with the then Deputy Minister for Justice Costa to tell us in the Commission that never and never would that party yield to what had happened to the House, and therefore that the Senate did not talk about it: the increase of the penalties for these crimes and the increase of the prescription had already reached the maximum limit of tolerance for the injury of constitutional principles and for a matter of public morality, of the state's attitude towards the citizens. I understand that this oath or solemn promise to do a battle to the last blood to prevent this from happening, as usual will end with People's Area yielding firmly. For the umpteenth time, as happened on civil unions, in the end, after promising evictions, we adapt to something absolutely unbecoming. And it is clear that all this is crucial. AL-A, for reasons diametrically opposed to those of the 5 Star Movement, does not vote for trust, and the decisive votes to make this incredible thing pass will come from that party that has always supported I do not say positions guaranteed, but do we mean positions of common sense? These are positions that can also be found on the left. Think of what Violante said, for example. It is not only the problem of keeping a citizen's whole life under trial, but there is also another problem: if you want to make a trial for events that took place twenty, twenty-five, thirty years before, how do you - as Violante rightly said in an interview - determine what happened after all that time? Of course, if we are talking about massacres, murders or similar crimes, it is clear that there is no prescription and therefore the punitive claim of the State must continue in time, but for the things we are talking about (induction, corruption for an act proper to the public official), do you think that ten or fifteen years later it is possible to go and rebuild these cases? Do you think that justice is the one that comes 20 years later, after in the meantime the life and reputation of a person in his family, social, economic relations has already been completely destroyed? I do not agree, but we have seen with regard to the Municipality of Rome that preventive resignation is even required, not on the basis of a referral to trial, but on the basis of a registration in the register of suspects. Is it enough to report a person to the magistrate to enter it in the register of suspects, and this person has to resign from everything? This is a system of which the 5 Star Movement was very happy when they applied it to others, while when it applies to them they denounce it with indignation: see the question of the advice of the lady who acts as city councilman after taking it is not as many as hundreds of thousands of euros. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] I know these things hurt you, but it is the reality; by the way, it is a reality that we do not share. If we want to be consistent, we must not have double standards; we must behave in the same way in two equal cases. I have always considered a barbaric and uncivilized system to eliminate from political and administrative life a person simply because it was entered in the register of suspects, which means absolutely nothing. It means that the magistrate says it is a due act; that following a complaint it works that way. What do we do, then: to someone we apply it and to someone else we do not, depending on the conveniences and political friendships? It's something absolutely indecent. The fact remains that the 5 Stars perhaps wanted, along with Casson, the perpetual prescription; AL-A and the People's Area did not want it until yesterday; the result is that politically, if this confidence passes, it means that someone has given up completely on his issues of principle, since what we are raising - we will continue to do so decisively - is a matter of great principle, from which comes the juridical civilization of a country. This measure does not make us take a step forward in legal civilization, but a step dramatically backwards, leaving the citizen guilty or innocent - and many times innocent - at the mercy of the institutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u37	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u38	Mr President, the 40 articles on which the measure before the House is based make significant changes to the criminal law, both substantive and procedural. A measure that is part of the reformist perspective pursued over the last three years, also in the fundamental area of criminal justice. Our idea of reforms has as its objective the full implementation of the model of jurisdiction and the system of guarantees contained in our fundamental Charter. Our reform proposals aim at fully achieving the equality of all citizens before the law. For this reason, not only Article 3 but also all the constitutional rules governing the functioning of justice cannot remain mere provisions: the presumption of not guilty until final condemnation; the right to a reasonable duration of the trial; the right to defence guaranteed also to those who are not well-off and finally the rehabilitative purpose of the sentence. Implementing the Constitution means, first of all, removing the real emergencies that characterize the justice service and that prevent the exercise of fundamental rights. It means ensuring a fair trial that, in time and mode, reduces the risk of discrimination arising from social differences of race or sex, both for those who are accused and for those who exercise their right or are offended or victim of a crime. For this reason, finally, it is necessary to adapt the order in a functional way to the full pursuit of these objectives, also enhancing and qualifying the activity and professionalism of all the operators of the justice service. In particular, the measure under consideration, in terms of substantive law, in addition to the introduction of a new cause for the extinction of crimes that can be prosecuted, as a result of remedial conduct, intervenes on the discipline of certain crimes: among others, crimes of political-mafia electoral exchange, theft and theft, and theft, and the imposition of sanctions. In particular, Article 3 intervenes on the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange, as referred to in Article 416-b, and tightens up the sanctioning framework. It should be recalled in this regard that, during the current legislature, Law No 62 of 17 April 2014 amended the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange, intervening both on the side of the incriminated conduct, considerably expanding it, and on that of the sentence imposed edittally, By reducing it. From the first point of view, in fact, the recalled law has expanded the range of punishable facts, including the acceptance of the promise of votes in exchange for the promise or the delivery, as well as money, also of other usefulness. In the second respect, it has reduced the sanctioning framework in relation to Article 416-a, by punishing the conduct referred to in Article 416-b, with the penalty of imprisonment from four to ten years. The bill intervenes again on the edittal framework sanctioning the crime in question with the penalty of imprisonment from six to twelve years. Articles 4 to 6 intervene on the discipline of certain crimes against the property: respectively of the theft at home and with rip (Article 624 bis of the Criminal Code), of the aggravated theft (Article 625 of the Criminal Code) and of the robbery (Article 628 of the Criminal Code), increasing the penalties and excluding - in relation to the crime of theft - the balancing of some circumstances. The follow-up to the action I am about to take concerns the need to give an organic picture of the sanctioning system for crimes on property. In fact, more in detail, Article 4 intervenes on the sanctioning framework of the crime of theft at home and of robbery, raising the minimum edittale of the prison sentence (from the current year to three years) and the pecuniary penalty (in the minimum from the current 309 euros to 927 euros and in the maximum from the current 1,032 to 1,500 euros). The provision also tightens the penalty framework for aggravated conduct provided for in the third paragraph of Article 624 bis of the Criminal Code. Finally, the draft law introduces in the codistical norm an additional paragraph for which the attenuating circumstances other than those provided for in Articles 98 (less age) and 625- bis (collaboration for the identification of the routes in the theft or of any fencers), competitors with one or more of the aggravating circumstances of the theft, referred to in Article 625 (see Article 5 of the bill), cannot be considered equivalent or prevalent with respect to these and the decreases of penalty are operated on the quantity of the same resulting from the increase consequent to the aforementioned aggravating circumstances. Article 5 amends Article 625 of the Criminal Code. This code of conduct contains a list of aggravating circumstances for which the crime of theft is punished with the penalty of imprisonment from one to six years and fine from € 103 to € 1,032. The bill tightens the sanctioning framework, providing for the penalty of imprisonment from two to six years and the fine from € 927 to € 1,500. Article 6 intervenes on the crime of robbery, referred to in Article 628 of the penal code, raising the edittal limits of both the prison sentence (from the current three to four years in minimum) and the pecuniary one (from the current 516 euros to 927 euros in minimum and from the current euros 2,065 to 2,500 euros in maximum). The provision also tightens the penalty framework for aggravated conduct covered by the third paragraph of Article 628 of the Criminal Code. Finally, the draft law introduces a further paragraph in the codistic rule for which if two or more of the aggravated circumstances are involved, or if one of these circumstances competes with another one of those indicated in Article 61 (i.e. the generic aggravating factors), the penalty is the imprisonment from six to twenty years and the fine from euro 1,538 to euro 3.098. Particularly significant is also the change in the discipline of the prescription (another important chapter), with particular regard to the crimes of corruption. Further changes, through a wide and detailed delegation to the Government, are proposed with regard to the procedural regime of certain crimes, the regulation of security measures, including through the re-examination of the so-called double track regime, and the criminal record. In this regard, Article 13, in entrusting the Government to issue a legislative decree to amend the rules of the judicial record, provides that the revision of such rules must take place in the light of changes in criminal matters, including procedural matters, and of the principles and criteria contained in national legislation and EU law on the protection of personal data, pursuing the objectives of simplification and reduction of administrative requirements. On the basis of the delegation criteria, the Commission must also repeal Article 5 (removal of registration) of the single text on the criminal record. The Government is also delegated to review the conditions for the elimination of registrations in order to adapt them to the current average duration of human life; to allow public administrations and public service operators to obtain - under certain conditions - from the office of the central register the general certificate containing the entries present in the database to the name of a specific person; to eliminate the provision for the registration of the application measures of the cause of non-invalidity of the particular nature of the fact, providing that both the PM to verify, before the provision is issued, that the fact charged is occasional; to remove also the time limits for the elimination of the registrations of convictions for minor facts. Paragraph 2 of the article, then, outlines the procedure for the adoption of the aforementioned legislative decree, providing for the parliamentary opinion. Finally, Article 14 empowers the Government to adopt legislative decrees, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 12, laying down the necessary implementing, coordinating and transitional rules following changes to the legislation in force by the measures provided for in Articles 12 and 13 of the draft law. The text also contains important procedural changes. In particular, the interventions concerning the defendant's irreversible inability to participate in the trial, the discipline of preliminary investigations and the filing procedure, the discipline of special rites, the preliminary hearing, the trial instruction and the structure of the judgment of merit, the simplification of appeals and the revision of the rules of distance proceedings are to be noted. Finally, the draft law confers on the Government delegations for the reform of the criminal process, in the matter of interceptions of conversations or communications, identifying, among others, precise guiding criteria with regard to operations carried out by the introduction of computer receivers, and for the reform of the penitentiary order through, among others, the revision of the conditions of access to alternative measures and the penitentiary benefits, the increase of prison work, the forecast of specific interventions in favour of foreign inmates, women recluse and the inmates mothers. In particular, the following measures are envisaged for the reform of the penitentiary system: the simplification of procedures, including the provision of deferred and possible contradictory measures, for decisions falling within the jurisdiction of the magistrate and the supervisory tribunal, with the exception of those relating to the withdrawal of alternative measures to detention; the revision of the modalities and conditions of access to alternative measures; the revision of the system of preclusions to access to penitentiary benefits; the provision of remedial justice activities; the increase of paid employment opportunities, both intra-mural and external, as well as voluntary activities; the revision of the provisions of the penitentiary order relating to penitentiary medicine (including through the strengthening of psychiatric assistance in criminal matters), the use of audiovisual links and the recognition of the right to affectivity; specific measures to promote the integration of foreign prisoners; the implementation, albeit tending, of the principle of code reserve in criminal matters, in order for the better knowledge of precepts and sanctions and therefore of the effectiveness of the re-educational function of the sentence, through the incorporation into the criminal code of all the particular criminality which have direct concern, the integrity of the integrity of the public property and the protection of the individual property and the integrity of the public property of the public property and the economic integrity of the welfare. We are also talking about the provision of rules aimed at respect for human dignity through the empowerment of prisoners, the maximum conformity of prison life to the external one, the dynamic surveillance; interventions to protect women who are recluse and the inmates of mothers; a revision of the system of ancillary penalties based on the principle of removing obstacles, the social reintegration of the sentenced person and the exclusion of their duration beyond the duration of the main sentence; a revision, finally, of the current forecasts on freedom of worship and the rights associated with it. Finally, the delegation contains specific principles and guiding criteria for the adaptation of the rules of the penitentiary order to the re-educational needs of minors, with regard both to the courts involved and to the organisation of institutions for minors, through the revision of alternative measures to detention and of the penitentiary benefits, with particular attention to education and contacts with external society in the light of social reintegration. I believe, Mr President, that this presentation has given great weight to the complexity of this measure, but also to the precise desire to reform parts of our system, which are absolutely important and decisive in order to give real effect to it and above all to guarantee the possibility of acting, through the process, in such a way as to give certainty to the penalties, but also a real possibility of recovery and rehabilitation through the prison system. The set of all the measures taken within the draft law that we are debating today in this House, I believe, is a very significant fact. Then the debate in this House will certainly focus on some elements that deserve further study and probably bring with them the need to carry out further reflections together with the Government. However, I believe that the completeness of this measure represents a point of reference within this legislature and that, also for the future of our country, this reform will help to give competitiveness to the country and certainties to the citizens, regardless of the role they play when they are subjected to a judicial process. Therefore, the hope is that the debate within this House, thanks to the commitment of the Government and the Justice Commission, will arrive at a positive outcome. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u39	Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u42	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, yesterday between 7 a.m. and 8 a.m. in southern Libya, in Ghat, two Italian technicians and a Canadian were kidnapped, working in bulk for the company Conicos, a Cuneo company active in the maintenance of the local airport. The city is under the control of the Government of National Unity of Tripoli recognized at international level. The three were probably kidnapped by subjects known to the local authorities for ambushing and robbing in the past, according to the spokesman of the municipality of Ghat. Mr President, I hope that the Government will follow with all the necessary attention this umpteenth crisis situation and spare no initiative to allow, in particular, the two Italians, coming from Cuneo and Belluno, to reunite their family shortly. At the same time, I hope that the services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and of Palazzo Chigi will be close to the families at this time of deep concern for the fate of their relatives. There will then be time to deepen the motivations and evaluations that only two days before, according to news reports, led to the decision to remove the escort to the technicians. Now is the time to take action to bring our fellow citizens home unharmed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u43	I would also like to thank you for drawing the attention of the Senate and the institutions to this dramatic emergency, which I imagine will involve all the competent authorities with diligence with the effectiveness that the case requires.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u44	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-681.ana.u45	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 21 September, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.57 p.m.
