ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u4	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u8	I inform that, as already communicated to the parliamentary groups for the short ways, in the sitting of question time of tomorrow, to hours 16, the minister of infrastructures and the transports, Dr. Graziano Delrio, will answer questions on the following topics: implementation of the new code of the contracts; problematic ones relative to the harbour system and the marine transport.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u9	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2232, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Grassi and others; Argentine and others; Miotto and others; Vargiu and others; Binetti and others; Rondini and others, and 292. Senator Sacconi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u10	Mr President, I take the floor as President of the Commission, Labour and Social Security, to address a non-formal thank you to Senator Parente, who has done a substantial job, with whom she has directed the Commission to significantly change the text produced by the House of Members. I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups with you, because everyone, no one excluded, has helped, albeit with distinctions that will emerge during the examination of the amendments, to change the original approach of the measure. This is a change that has been suggested by the numerous hearings that the Commission has carried out, through which we have been able to verify the good practices that, with regard to the better inclusion of disabled people of particular gravity, are carried out in our communities, however widely. We found ourselves choosing between two legislative models, if I may say so, namely a legislative model that I would call Jacobine, with which the Chamber of Deputies had identified a practice not recurrent in the Italian experience but typically Anglo-Saxon, that of the trust, and had decided to encourage it through the use of the provision made under the law of stability. The opposite choice, which the Commission has made, is that of a law that I would call a capacitor of the vitality of our society; a law with which, that is, we would take note, if confirmed by the vote of the Assembly, of the attitudes that have manifested themselves in our communities, especially with initiatives of a solidarity nature, giving them that further support so that they spread all the more. It is a very different choice to legislate, which is based on the idea of a state that does not pretend to replace society, that recognizes subsidiary activities and through them realizes that project of deinstitutionalization of the answers to the needs of inclusion and self-sufficiency of the serious disabled. This way of law-making is precisely the opposite of what I have called Jacobin, because with it the State tends to replace society or thinks that it has the capacity to discern virtue and thinks that it must impose it on society. It's two different things. Let me say - and I hope I am not denied by those who will intervene - that with a substantial broad consensus we have selected a wide range of opportunities that society can freely choose, all equally supported by friendly taxation and other forms of support. The second point I would like to make relates to a rule of principle which I myself have proposed and which has been corrected by the Government. I accepted the correction, although I have to believe that the rule I proposed was not well understood by the Government at the time when it requested that correction. I have proposed the reference to those principles of the order that are variously codified and that we find in particular in the law on fiscal federalism, according to which in every territorial context the health dimension should be integrated as much as possible with a socio-sanitary or social health care dimension, so that taking charge of the person, to whom we always refer, leads to the most appropriate responses to the needs that the person manifests, starting first of all from that duty to prevent the formation of a state of need. Well, in the law on fiscal federalism and the measures that followed, we identified the ideal ratio between the macro-levels of assistance. I am referring first of all to prevention, which we identified as 5% of the total social and health care expenditure of a territory, 44 per cent of the optimum size of the expenditure on shipping and 51 per cent - I would like to remind you - spending on services of a territorial nature, those services that are so appropriate and appropriate for the needs we are dealing with in this measure. In fact, we will be able to give value to the modest resources that we allocate here for the disabled if we place them within the framework of an organization of social and health care expenditure as efficient and corresponding to those macro levels of assistance. The government does not have to worry about the call to those principles, as it did asking me to add above all the invariance of the expenditure, because in reality, the call to those principles means reduction of the expenditure for inappropriate shipping, closure of dangerous hospital complexes because below the minimum thresholds of efficiency and corresponding strengthening of the expenditure for territorial services that, as they say those macro levels of assistance that the President knows very well, having participated in first person to the law on fiscal federalism, want 51 percent of the spending of the territory to be dedicated to those services and to those services. Unfortunately the supply makes the demand and the excess of hospital supply determines inappropriate hospitality compared to people who must find instead tools of self-sufficiency and inclusion in other benefits and other opportunities, such as those that we want to support and spread here. The measure under discussion, therefore, recalls those principles and criteria relating to the macro-levels of assistance and the proportion between them and calls for a shift of expenditure from the hospital dimension to the size of the territory, as we can see in good Italian practices. I am proud to come from a territory in which the integrated company of health and social health services, for about ten years and perhaps more, is in surplus management precisely because it realizes high levels of adequacy and offers more appropriate answers to needs. In that context, initiatives that have a character that we could call spot, to some extent, almost occasional, become structural, because they fit in the right context. It is not the 90 million that we are discussing that will change the condition of the seriously disabled, but they can be a useful flywheel if placed in the appropriate institutional context. This is also part of the integration between the social and health expenditure of the municipalities and the activity of the integrated social and health companies of the territories. In our Veneto experience, the municipalities give their spending to the integrated companies that manage it with separate accounting under the direction of the mayors, but basically guarantee full synergy between the health and social health dimension. With these characteristics, I hope that the measure will reach a wide level of consensus, well above that of the majority, corresponding, I hope, the vote of this House to the dialogue that has been held constructively in the Commission and for which I renew my thanks to all the Groups, really no one excluded, because they all helped to change the original text of the law. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u11	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u12	Mr President, we are faced with a measure which apparently has a name that evokes feelings of solidarity ('After us'). However, since it is a proposal that comes from a political force in which I absolutely do not trust, we need to go into this question in order to understand the real meaning of it. Continuing on with the fine words, I quote the opening of this measure, which tells us: This law, in implementation of the established principles, lists the norms of the Constitution to which all of us are particularly fond, even if someone wants to destroy it. However, there are always people for whom principles give a certain sensitivity to the soul. This rule states: This Act, in implementation of the principles laid down in Articles 2, 3, 30, 32 and 38 of the Constitution. All right, let's go see them. Article 2: The Republic recognizes and guarantees the inviolable rights of man (...) and requires the fulfilment of the indispensable duties of economic and social solidarity. Of course, I have purified Article 2 of our Constitutional Charter of the words which, in the context of this legislative provision, are not relevant, so that reading becomes easier, in view of the inspiration that this provision recalls. Then we mention Article 3 which, by the way, is the article on equality: "All citizens have equal social dignity and are equal before the law, without distinction (...) of personal and social conditions. It is the task of the Republic to remove the economic and social obstacles which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person. Well, we already dwell on these two articles, as they inspire the provision, and looking at the provision, in the rules that follow, we realize that these principles are not fully respected. We begin, in fact, with the difference between serious disabled people, less serious disabled people and not serious disabled people and if we go to see the current discipline of the subject of disability, we realize that we would need a more detailed description of the various disabilities, in order to be able to understand well what disabilities we talk about. Certainly there is a will, at least written, to want to do something, but let's go on like this. We also mention Article 30 of our Charter, which reads: In cases of parental incapacity, the law ensures that their duties are fulfilled. In fact, the measure under consideration, which was then corrected here in the Senate, refers to the involvement of stakeholders but respecting the will of people with serious disabilities and, where possible, their parents or those who protect their interests. Of course, the measure respects the provisions of Article 30, but the big problem is how. Let us move forward and find Article 32 of our Charter: The Republic protects health as the fundamental right of the individual and the interest of the community, and guarantees free care to the most deprived. The measure de quo, in Article 3, tells us where we go to get the money from the Fund that is being established, for which, as the rapporteur has also reminded us, 90 million - even if it is little - have been allocated for the year 2016. Remember: 90 million in 2016. We're already in mid-2016, but let's see the makeup where it is. Let us always remember that it is the Democratic Party: never have confidence, just as I never had it. We have come to Article 38 of the Constitution, which reads: Every citizen who is unfit for work and lacks the means to live is entitled to maintenance and social assistance. Most wise words of our constituent Fathers. Article 38 continues: "The tasks provided for in this Article shall be carried out by bodies and institutes prepared or supplemented by the State." In fact, the article is mentioned in this provision and therefore these 90 million should also serve to do so. But now let's move on, because then we'll resume the 90 million speech. The measure is also based on the principles of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union (Articles 24 and 26) and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. There are a few articles of both, but they forget Article 12 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We have had a doubt: why was Article 12 forgotten? Without prejudice to the fact that it would have been appropriate to take the whole Convention as it was and include it in the measure, other articles have been mentioned, which I do not remember at the moment, but Article 12 has not been inserted, which I am giving you. Of course, since it was not included, we, in the amending phase, proposed it in the Commission and, alas, the amendment was rejected (but we will propose it again in the amending phase in this House, so there is always the possibility of redeeming ourselves). Article 12 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities states: "The States Parties shall take all appropriate and effective measures to ensure the equal right of persons with disabilities to their own or inherited property, to the control of their financial affairs (...) and shall ensure that persons with disabilities are not arbitrarily deprived of their property." This is a fundamental finding which is not included in the measure under consideration. Maybe someone could say that there was no need, because it is absolutely not about measures that affect the inheritance. Ah! After us, what a beautiful name! Of course, the first thing that comes to mind is: great, let's do it! Beautiful, let's introduce him! Now, though, I understand what's behind it. Why did you reject these amendments which sought to introduce this principle into the draft law? Because in a bill, which among the good rules that could give relief - if implemented quickly, but then we will see, that they will not - provides precisely rules that manage the inheritance not included among the inspiring principles also what ensures the legacy and financial affairs and what specifies that the rules must ensure that people with disabilities are not arbitrarily deprived of their property? Mr President, I should like to end by saying that our fear is that we are going to regulate, legitimise and deprive people of their legacy, thus transforming the problem of people into a new form of market. Mr President, only in order to make clear the issue of the famous 90 million: the 90 million are allocated for 2016, but the measure leaves to the Ministry of Labour the adoption of an implementing decree that can be issued up to six months later. In six months we'll be in 2017 and the 90 million will be gone. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u13	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law in the Senate marks an important stage for our welfare, since the provision of care for disabled people without family support was a shortcoming that had to be filled for a long time. The bill, approved at first reading in the House with the favorable vote of all sides, except the 5 Star Movement, aims to introduce in our system assistance in favour of people with serious disabilities who lose their family support due to the aging or death of their parents. The draft law under consideration, commonly referred to as "after us," represents a first response to shared and more than justified fears of those who (especially parents who have a child with serious disabilities in their family) care for those who will be able to take care of the disabled family when they are no longer there. This is a serious problem, neglected for decades, involving at least 580,000 people with serious disabilities. However, if the point of analysis extends to other forms of disability, we see very high numbers, reaching up to 3,200,000 disabled people living in our country. The objectives of the draft law are different: to create projects for the independent life of disabled people, to support the creation of communities and family houses, to establish a fund for assistance and to provide for preferential tax regimes for the protection of the heritage intended for the care of disabled people. In particular, through the establishment of the Fund financed with €90 million for 2016 (something has already been said in this regard), €38.3 million for 2017 and €56.1 million since 2018, the disabled should be given the opportunity to continue living in their homes or in family homes, even after the loss of their parents. Moreover, it is expected that all that parents allocate to their children in the form of insurance cover, trusts and liberal donations will not be taxed. Well, it is precisely the way in which this fund is financed and used that perhaps we should be a little clearer. The draft law also provides for initiatives to facilitate the signing of social security and insurance policies with specific indications of projects which have as their primary objective the independent lives of people with disabilities, integrating the resources to which they are entitled. Moreover, for disabled people with no family support, projects are planned to create community families and family homes in which people who wish to be included. It is precisely on the possibility of purchasing new houses by the agencies on which other concerns can be expressed. The bill therefore presents some aspects on which to be monitored, keeping high attention to the actual implementation. In fact, it is stated in the text of the provision that access to assistance, care and protection measures for the Fund is subject to the existence of requirements to be identified by decree of the Minister of Labour and social policies, to be issued within six months of the date of entry into force of the law. It is therefore necessary to take timely action by the Government to ensure that all measures set out in the legislative text under consideration can be applied immediately. The resources made available to disabled people must be monitored in order to ensure that they are actually allocated to them, and that they are not lost in bureaucratic and relentless funnels. In this respect, we welcome the provision in Article 8 which states that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy must report annually on the state of implementation of the measures envisaged and the actual development of resources for disabled people. It exudes from the draft law under consideration, but not from the subject to the agenda, the question of "during us." The legislative initiative of the "after us" is welcomed by almost all political forces and demanded by public opinion, but it should not be forgotten that parents who care for disabled children need assistance during their lives, who devote, with absolute devotion and self-denial, to the care of the disabled family. We therefore hope that Parliament, once it has adopted the draft law on 'after us', will consider the draft laws on family caregivers and initiate the ordinary legislative process. It must be realized that in our country there are 9 million people who devote themselves to the care of a family member who is not self-sufficient. However, the lack of recognition of the figure of the family caregiver and the possibility of anticipating retirement in order to devote himself to care is a very serious gap that we are one of the few European countries to accept supinely. The Berlusconi Government paid great attention to this issue. In fact, in 2010 the Chamber had approved the bill that allowed family caregivers to retire once they had completed thirty years of contributions and at least eighteen years of continuous assistance to a disabled person. It is time to resume these initiatives and complete them. In conclusion, we are pleased to accept this measure. I hope that there will be a common will to give, as soon as possible, all the necessary support, in terms of assistance, also to family members who devote a lifetime to caring for disabled relatives. Our duty to respect those in need of help must not be confined to the usual words of solidarity and closeness, but must be translated into the concrete commitment to provide substantial and appropriate forms of assistance, both for the disabled and for the family. I hope that the intentions of the legislator will not be frustrated by unclear wordings or subsequent red tape that will make this measure untransparent. That is why I have tabled a number of amendments, which I hope will be accepted. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senator Council]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u15	Senator Favero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u16	Dear President, Senators, Senators, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur who sits next to me for the work she has done in the Commission, where we have tried in every way to find a synthesis of our positions. I would also like to greet the President of the Commission and Dr Abagnale. I would also like to thank the House of Deputies for their continuous contacts and hearings, which have allowed us, in addition to listening, to have a fruitful discussion, and it has not been easy because in some cases we have really been excited and moved. Today is really an important day, as many colleagues and colleagues have mentioned, for many people in our country who are in serious difficulty and deficit. It is also true for all of us, not only for the disabled and their families. It is an important day for all those who live and live with a serious disability, who add an anguish to daily fatigue, that of not knowing what will happen in the following years, when those who care for these people will no longer be there. Here, therefore, it is useful here to analyze the reasons for the choices made, which are at the origin of a measure that was born years ago from families, comes from below, in particular from some large associations of family members of people with cognitive disabilities and from many small experiences of "after us" spread throughout the national territory, among which also my territory of origin, Piedmont, where some experiences in this sense are already operational. For example, in Biella, my home town, the family home Delfino has been operating for a few months (I take the opportunity to greet Daniele, Cristina and Loredana). The request of the subjects mentioned was received by Mr Turco in the previous parliamentary term, but the huge problem they failed to overcome was, as is often the case, the lack of resources. In fact, in a first phase a billion resources were expected and the audience was much larger. In this legislature, therefore, the interrupted process has been resumed (it was a promise made), the actions have been reduced and also the audience identified in the technical report, which is between 100,000 and 150,000 beneficiaries. 90 million have been acquired by the last law of stability: as far as I know, it is the first time in this legislature that there is before a post of resources and after the adoption of a measure. It is therefore a conquest, but, precisely because of the amount of the budget (90 million), it is not yet possible to talk about a reform of the system. However, efforts have been made to maintain the new perspective and to continue in a direction taken. So it's a path, what you're doing. Article 2 maintains the objective of the essential and social levels and sets itself the attainable objective of bringing the service objectives within the specific field of the law. We have focused on the most serious situations of disability, in which it is realistically difficult to live alone, but in which good levels of autonomy could be achieved. The inclusion in the identification of the audience of the meaning of people with serious disabilities, not determined by natural ageing, has been operated precisely thanks to the reporting of the associative world. It is not necessary to confuse the audience of the measure with the 2.5 million people who are currently not self-sufficient and elderly. The serious disability, statistically, is mainly cognitive or psychic and the same ability to self-determine is limited and often intervenes the support administrator, whose role of liaison with the trustee was foreseen in the measure arrived at the Assembly by the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to reiterate, given that there may still be some misunderstanding, that in no article there is provision for hospitalization in health care (RSA), nor does the RSA receive funding from this bill, because it is necessary to take people with disabilities out of institutions as much as possible. Therefore, the word "residence" has also been removed. I see my time is really running out. Of course, the condition of families, which are increasingly small, fragile and single parents, and the opportunity for a multiple offer of services, including other conditions, should be deepened. To give examples, who lives in a vegetative state, maybe has problems living a life in a family home and so in this case a more protected situation might be preferable. The draft law in question proposes a path towards maximum autonomy that can be reached according to the level of disability and therefore completes and does not replace the Act on Independent Life already cited, No 162 of 1998. I would also like to mention that it takes account of Article 19 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which states in point (a): People with disabilities have the possibility to choose, on the basis of equality with others, their own place of residence and where and with whom they live and are not obliged to live in a particular housing. In the Biennial Action Programme for the promotion of rights and integration of people with disabilities, in addition to the promotion of independent life, the aim is to promote the process of deinstitutionalisation and to develop projects on self-sustaining living, involving small groups of people. So it is intended to promote independent life, which is not in conflict with the choice of living in small groups. Reinforcing this opportunity does not mean segregating anyone, if this is the environment that corresponds to the best, to the life plan of the people who choose it. I would also like to mention the maintenance of EUR 400 million in the Stability Act for the National Fund for self-sufficiency, one part of which is dedicated to supporting independent life programmes. Let us remember that we have also obtained 5 million euros in addition, precisely with Law No 162 of 1998. It is therefore a very practical law, which responds to specific demands and concrete needs, but which does not place itself in a logic of overall reform of the whole system, even if it is oriented towards a social system respectful of people - I want to emphasize this concept - and their families, which calls all public and private resources to cooperate. It is necessary to prepare the "after us" "during us." I quote these words, which are the motto of our local association After us. We therefore call for a rapid conclusion of the parliamentary procedure, with final approval. I would like to end with the words of a recently disappeared friend, who is called Don Egidio Marazzina: I use the verb at the present time, because he still accompanies me on my way. He was a forerunner and pioneer of these ideas and was able to see them realized in the "after us" and was breathed right into the Delfino house I mentioned earlier. He says: I am very happy to see that the project in which with many of you I have believed in these years is coming to life, because some guys have begun to live the independent life experience four days a week. Not only that. As you will certainly have seen on TV or in the newspapers our government is passing a law that goes just in the direction that we have started. For this I thank the Lord and wish all parents the courage to look to their children as adults, discovering that in each of them God has put wonderful things that we must learn to see and to bring out [[It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u17	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u18	Mr President, I note that the debate in this House, which is very interesting and fruitful, has shown that even those who have had more critical tones and accents could not fail to underline the goodness of this bill (and I could mention those who have done so). In fact, it is difficult to criticize a bill that for the first time in Italian legislative history speaks of the destiny of people with disabilities. From tomorrow, when the law will be passed, (and it is not a small thing) the families of people with disabilities, or those who represent and protect their interests, will be able to go to the local authority or the municipality and record, in the individual project that many municipalities already make, in agreement with the ASL, their will about the destiny of people with disabilities. I have heard many concerns: this law, as President Sacconi said well, integrates all the scaffolding of social and health care. We do not repeal other laws, we do not touch anything, but it integrates and is updated. How? Even with a very strong value system, as well as updating and adapting our legislation to European and international standards. What is the deep value underlying this law? The tension towards the autonomous life of people with disabilities. Many of my colleagues - and last of all Senator Puglia - have complained that there is no reference to all the articles of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, but we know that this was ratified by Italy in 2009, so it is law and, like all other laws, it is integrated into the different regulations, including the one under discussion. Why do you remember Article 19 (in the text, among the purposes of the law, you say "with particular reference")? Because Article 19 speaks, precisely, of the greatest value that is behind this law, namely the autonomous life and inclusion in the community of people with disabilities. What's gonna happen? I have visited so many facilities at this time and I have had the great privilege of being able to follow such a measure in Parliament and see and touch with hand. It will happen that many residences, maybe those that have 40 or 45 beds, like those that I visited, with this fund will be able to experience - and already do - externalizations. I have seen houses built outside the residences to accommodate four or five people with serious disabilities; the fund will also serve this. The last question is the one that received the most criticism (I think of the 5 Star Movement and Senator Serra). We have substantially amended Article 6, which concerns the issue of trusts. We are talking about asset segregation; it means that a parent who owns a property or other puts such assets safe so that it cannot be attacked. Many times, in fact, people with disabilities do not have autonomy and must be taken care of. This rule serves to ensure the care and assistance of the person with disabilities at the death of their parents. I do not dwell on this and I address in particular to Senator Serra; we have increased the facilities because the trust is not covered by our civil code and has an Anglo-Saxon system. The senator, for example, referred to the trust trust agreement, in which the property is not transferred, as in the case of the trust, which we have also foreseen can also be managed by trust companies and by ONLUS with a specific purpose of charity. Why this? Because in this way we give parents the opportunity to decide which is the most suitable instrument, and whether to allocate their assets, homes or other assets, even to a non-profit organization or a trust company with reliability criteria; this asset can be addressed in favour of a non-profit organization and can therefore also help those who do not have a property. This was the main change we made to the Senate, and this is what we feel we have done. We have legislated and amended the text in the Commission. I too thank all the forces present in the Commission for having had to look at the measure quickly, given that the fund must be spent by the end of the year. I also thank everyone for their cooperation. We have legislated with this idea: how to be able to leave parents as quiet as possible, both about where their children will go and about how their heritage can be managed, also thinking about how to help those who do not have a heritage. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bencini and Auricchio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u19	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u20	Mr President, kind senators, kind senators, the measure that we are about to conclude today is the result of a long work, shared by so many groups, to which the Government has also contributed. This is in the awareness of the need to provide for provisions to protect the person with serious disabilities, even when family support is lost, in an ideal path whose final stage is the well-being, full social inclusion and autonomy of the person. The provisions of the draft law, I would like to reiterate, aim to guarantee the greater interest of persons with serious disabilities, as stated in Article 1. At the same time, a long-awaited response is provided to those families who live today the anxiety, anguish, concern and dismay in imagining the lives of their loved ones in a future without their presence. This is the essence of "after us" Today, with the approval of this law, we are doing something extremely important. This will have a positive impact on the quality of life of severely disabled people and their families. For the first time they give concrete answers to those families, especially those parents, often even elderly, who have taken care of their child or their daughter, severely disabled and who daily live with anguish and torment, asking themselves the question of who will take care of their disabled family members when they are no longer there or when they will no longer be able to assist them. It is a measure centered on the person. I think that all of us, we have close people, friends, relatives, acquaintances (even those who speak to you) who live this difficult reality. I believe that the real daily barriers that a disabled person encounters are not only the architectural ones, but also the cultural ones, and today with this measure we can say that we have also made a cultural leap - yes, I believe that it is above all a great cultural leap - that will guarantee both a quality of life and a future life for people with disabilities. As I said, there are laws that also mark a cultural turning point and this is the case with this law. We have set up a fund of 90 million for this year so that all stakeholders can ensure personalised paths for serious disabled people after the death of their parents; personalized life projects (I realize that if the fund were larger would be better) decided by parents, brothers and sisters, and by the protagonists themselves, when the type of disability allows them. Finally we recognize the right that the families of the disabled have been waiting for a long time: to decide the place and the way in which it will live. The condition of disability concerns not only the people affected and their families, but also the community and institutions, which must work in close cooperation, on the network at different levels of responsibility. I would like to say very little more about the Fund for the assistance of people with serious disabilities, for which more than 150 million is planned over three years, with structured programming, as we can see from Article 3 of the measure. Subsequently, in Article 4, we find the purpose of the Fund, which consists in promoting and strengthening deinstitutionalisation, which must not be a belligerence against the RSA or other institutions; however, we believe that with certain more innovative intentions, such as family homes or the experiences of groups in apartments, we can give a response for experimental designs that are carried out exclusively during the family life of people with disabilities. Regions, local authorities, third sector bodies, as well as individuals governed by private law may contribute to the financing of these programmes and interventions. With this law, we give families and people with disabilities the opportunity to have a better and more serene future. We have made available resources - perhaps we will need more, I realize - and instruments that do not want to impose a standard path, but different paths. As regards the financial provisions, Article 9 of the measure provides for 90 million for 2016 (already foreseen in the Stability Act), 38 million for 2017 and 56 million from 2018. I would like to thank all the groups, the rapporteur, the President of the Commission and indeed all of you senators, who have tried in every way to improve even more an already important measure. Personally, I've been trying to deal with people with disabilities for a long time. It is a step forward for me and a step forward for our families. I know that many of you have disabled family members; I am close to you, because, like you, I know what it means to have a disabled person and with this provision, after my death, it will certainly be something not so tragic. So thank you. This proposal was truly born of many people of good will and associations. I think today is really a good day for everyone. [[Applause from the PD groups, and AP (NCD-UDC), Misto-Idv and Senators Bignami and Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u21	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u22	Mr President, I have tabled some amendments to Article 1. Amendment 1.1 aims to introduce, to paragraph 1, the reference to articles 117, paragraph 7, and 118, paragraph 4, of the Constitution, in order to clarify more clearly what are the competences and interests of this law, relating not only to the discourse of independence, but also to the dwelling discourse. Amendment 1.64 calls for the full replacement of paragraph 3. My amendment specifies very important concepts, which give value to the housing condition of disability. I have read part of the amendment: At each level, the process policies through which proven social, economic or institutional innovations are transposed at the system level for assessing the impact of economic choices are enhanced. The amendment goes on and I would like you to read it all, in order to give importance to our work. Amendment 1.0.300 instead provides for the introduction of Article 1-a. I make a request on the acceptance of a part of it. In fact, I am interested in point (a), where it is written that every competent public body: it promptly adopts all necessary measures of its own competence to initiate and bring to a conclusion the path of de-institutionalisation. I was saying that in the bill some things are not written, this is in fact a speech that concerns the future: what will be done about these kids? In reality, however, I would also like to deal with the present and I wonder what will be done with those who are there, i.e. those who are already present in the institute. Is this a slow, long process? How will this be done? When it was passed, the Basaglia law required that the Manicomial Institutes be closed by a certain date; the bill under consideration, on the other hand, is somewhat bland, because it is proposed but does not impose deinstitutionalization. That is the reason behind amendment 1.0,300.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u23	Unfortunately, Senator, I must inform you that Amendment 1.0.300 is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u24	Mr President, the amendments tabled to Article 1 propose an improvement with a reference to the United Nations Convention and to the decree of the President of the Republic of 4 October 2013 on the adoption of the Biennial Action Programme for the promotion of rights and integration of persons with disabilities, in particular to the line 3 for the right to independent and self-determined life of serious disabled people, without prejudice to the levels of assistance and benefits provided for by existing legislation. Moreover, the Programme we referred to was approved by the Led Government in the Council of Ministers in 2013, so by your majority. It is therefore a programme that you have adopted, the line 3 of which refers to measures for independent living and is not fully mentioned in this draft law. If as an opposition we shared it at the time, it would seem right that this creature of yours should be accepted here too; it would therefore be schizophrenic not to accept the suggestion. With amendment 1.19 we would ask to move more towards a bio-psycho-social model of the condition of disability based on respect for human rights, always as provided for in the aforementioned decree of the President of the Republic of 4 October 2013. The lines of action 3 and 6 of the Biennial Action Programme are therefore proposed to this House to strengthen the concept of independent living and inclusion in society "during us" and not just "after us." We are pushing for the right to health, housing and rehabilitation as specified in Amendment 1.34; we are committed to independent living, to the inclusion in society of the self-employed and free person. In order for the person and the public to remain at the centre of our work, we also suggest with amendment 1.62 that paragraph 3 of Article 1 be deleted, where we find the true meaning that this majority gives to the draft law under consideration: the creation of a new legal institution, the trust, an instrument that will open a motorway to financial interests, foundations, cooperatives, banks, insurance. In this way we will give you the opportunity to avoid yet another legislative forcing, yet another Trojan horse proposed with the beautiful wording of the "after us," but which contains the usual cunning consisting in bringing in from the window a tool useful only to those who maneuver money, great money, but that has no human, nor philanthropic, nor public purpose. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u25	Mr President, Amendment 1.27 calls for the following words to be inserted after the words: 'both parents': 'the parents', 'the parents', 'the parents', 'the parents', 'the parents', 'the parents', 'the parents', 'the parents', 'the parents', 'the parents', 'the parents', 'the parents', 'the parents', 'the parents', 'the parents', 'the parents', 'the parents', 'the parents', 'the parents', 'the parents', 'the parents', 'the parents', 'the parents', 'the parents', 'the parents', 'the parents', 'the parents', 'the parents', 'the The text that emerged in the Commission instead proposes to include, after the words: "both parents" the words: "because they are not able to provide adequate parental support, and in view of the loss of family support." I would like to understand whether in the words: "as well as in view of the loss of family support" is included the theme of parental responsibility extended also to those who are not the natural parents, but who may have taken care of the disabled person; in fact, often, at some point in their lives disabled people no longer have parents and perhaps are taken over by other subjects. In this wording, I cannot understand whether this possibility is understood, whereas the amendment that I have proposed seems more clear, adding the words: "or those who stand for it by exercising parental responsibility" and thus understanding any person who takes responsibility for the disabled seriously even before the loss of family support and being left in the hands of the competent institutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u26	Mr President, with amendment 1.321, I would like to include, in paragraph 2 of Article 1, a specific reference to the financial resources already allocated for welfare benefits not provided for in this Act. We know that this measure is aimed at protecting the interests of people with serious disabilities, not determined by natural ageing or by pathologies related to senility, without family support or because parents are unable to provide adequate parental support. These measures, aimed also at avoiding institutionalisation, are integrated, with the involvement of stakeholders, in the individual project referred to in Article 14 of Law No 328 of 8 November 2000, in compliance with the will of persons with serious disabilities, where possible, of their parents or of those who protect their interests.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u27	Mr President, I would like to refer to the aims of the law referred to in Article 1, which refers to pathology not determined by natural ageing or by pathologies related to senility and people who today have those who can attend them but tomorrow, to remind the Assembly and especially the Government that for two years we have been trying to solve the problem of a few dozen people in Italy who had the misfortune, about fifty years ago, to be born foecomic for the issue of thalidomide. Other subjects, within a predetermined period, had the accompaniment: I was interested in it at the time when I was in the government. I would like to point out that they are not false invalids, because those who visit them can see that they have typical Thalidomide pathology. Madam Representative of the Government, the problem is that for two years we have been bounced from the law of stability to the law of stability, from measure to measure. On the draft law under consideration, with the generous commitment of the President of the Health Commission, Senator De Biasi, we did a cognitive survey and we called the survivors, because unfortunately the phenomenon was such that so many of those who were born then died. There are people born without arms and without legs, but with extraordinary courage they have had the opportunity to get married, to have children, to graduate, but the years pass and this discrimination towards them becomes increasingly hateful. We are talking about a few million euros, not billions of euros. My appeal concerns not this measure because amendments have not been tabled in this regard, but a twin measure in the Health Commission. The government, please, does not behave like it did all the time, when the veto of the Ministries of Economics and Health arrives. Since we are 100% in favour of this Parliament, it is recognised that, in a country where millions of false invalids are spoken of, the problem of the invalidity of a few dozen people, who are waiting for this recognition of justice against them, who have a visible disability and who are rightly concerned about the future, is also part of the philosophy of this measure. Let us, together, try to respond to this problem. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bianconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u28	The remaining amendments and the agenda are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u29	Mr President, I am against all the amendments. I give a favourable opinion on the agenda, provided that the following reformulation is made of the matter and of the device: "considered that: the above measures introduced by the current Executive are very important with regard to the support of persons with serious disabilities and their families; the forms of intellectual and mental disability affect a significant part of the population with disabilities, commits the Government to consider the possibility of expressly providing for the application of the provisions of the bill to persons with intellectual and mental disabilities, also taking into account socio-economic, environmental and family conditions."
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u30	I agree with what the rapporteur has said and I thank Senator Bertacco for the agenda that he wanted to put people with intellectual discomfort at the centre.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u31	Senator Bertacco, do you accept the reformulation? BERTACCO (FI-PdL XVII). Yes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u34	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). I would ask you to sign the agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,300, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u37	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, we are about to vote on Amendment 1.6. I would ask the House to pay attention because we have voted on the precedents and have failed. I made a premise: I have the doubt that in the end, despite all these fine words, the legacy of people with serious disabilities is at risk. So avoid my ill thinking because, sometimes, thinking wrong is a sin but very often you get it right. The amendment is very simple because it goes to include within the principles inspiring the norm an impact that refers to paragraphs 4 and 5 of Article 12 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I would remind myself that Article 12 of that Convention and, in particular, paragraphs 4 and 5 call on each State to protect, ensure the legacy of persons with disabilities and to regulate for full protection. It would be appropriate to incorporate this principle into the measure, otherwise I really feel comfortable thinking badly. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u38	Colleagues, to give maximum collaboration, if in the benches next to there are tiles inserted of colleagues who are not present, parade them. So help our Senator Secretary. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.6 tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,301, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1.13, which is essentially the same as amendments 1.303 and 1.304.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u41	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, Amendment 1.13 aims to include in paragraph 1 of Article 1, after the words: "full inclusion and autonomy of persons with disabilities" the words: "from the evolutionary age," also in order to adequately prepare the moment of detachment from the family or loss of support". This amendment seems appropriate to us because in it we refer to Article 24 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which deals with the rights of children in general and, therefore, also with children with disabilities and their full inclusion, to be guaranteed from the very first stage of life. It is also necessary, as has been done with the proposed amendment, to focus better on the need to activate paths of autonomy from the earliest age, preparing the period of adulthood and the next one of the so-called "after us," that is, as adults without family support, through a gradual and continuous path of growth, declining the individual project that each person with disabilities, or those who represent it, must build together with the institutions (as in the case of school) and those who revolve around them. We therefore call on the House to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u42	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.13, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators, essentially identical to amendments 1.303, tabled by Senators Puglia and Montevecchi, and 1,304, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,302, tabled by Senators Puglia and Montevecchi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 1,305, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,305, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u45	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I am announcing the withdrawal of amendment 1,324.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u46	The Presidency takes note of this. Let us move on to amendment 1306, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,306, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.19, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.20, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators, up to the words "protection." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.21 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.22, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.23, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u49	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, this amendment expresses the desire to remove the word 'grave' after the word 'disability', which seems to us to be very restrictive, in view of the real needs of people with disabilities in our country. In fact, the conditions of weakness, fragility and necessity in which a disabled person can be found cannot be traced tout court exclusively to cases of serious disability. This legislative choice therefore appears short-sighted and worthy of a broader intervention, not least because there is no precise definition of what is a serious disabled person. So we could really risk taking discretionary action, which we should distance ourselves from.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u50	Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,23, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators, until the words "serious disability" are used with the following words: "disability." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1,307 are therefore not included. Amendment 1.308 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.27, tabled by Senators Bencini and Romani Maurizio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,309, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.310, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,311, tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.36, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,37, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.312, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.313, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,314, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.315 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,316, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.317, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,318, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,318, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1,319, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,319, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 1,320, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,320, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,321, tabled by Senators Rizzotti and Gibiino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.62.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u53	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, Amendment 1.62 seeks to delete paragraph 3 of Article 1. The reasons have already been given on other occasions. We call for the urgent deletion of paragraph 3, which basically ruins Article 1. Article 1 of the measure consists of three paragraphs: the first two repeat things already foreseen by other laws and the only novelty is as provided by paragraph 3, i.e. the institution of the trust, which will allow families to leave their assets to private foundations that manage institutions. Therefore, the main purpose of the bill under consideration is to allow family assets to be left to willing private individuals. The trust institution was lacking in the first versions of the bill and was introduced later. Therefore, in order to improve the draft law under consideration and give the true meaning of the original proposal, we ask the Assembly to seriously assess the proposal to delete paragraph 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u54	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.62, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,63, tabled by Senator Serra and other senators, up to the words "to persons with disabilities with no family support." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.64 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 1,322, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,322, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,66, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the required number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,66, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.67 tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,323, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the required number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,323, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.324 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 1,325, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the required number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1,325, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency declares amendment 1.0,300 inadmissible, which gives a delegation to the Government without any definite object. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u55	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u56	The opinion was in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u57	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,300. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). I call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,300, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2301, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 2,302.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u60	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, I would like to explain to you what we intend to do with this amendment, always in order to make clear the seriousness of the decision to concentrate solely and exclusively on a small audience of right-holders. Once again, we note that the LEPs have been established by Article 117, second paragraph, point (m) of the Constitution. The fact that we do not want to put the Constitution into practice makes this measure really small: a missed opportunity to make history. You focused on a small problem when you had the opportunity to settle outstanding issues, particularly as the Constitution says. This, in our view, is very serious and with this amendment we give you the opportunity to remedy the structural shortcomings of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u61	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,302, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators, until the words "present law" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments from 2,303 to 2,306 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,307, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators, until the words "present law" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 2.308 to 2.310 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.15 tabled by Senators Bencini and Romani Maurizio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.20 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,312, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,311, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.23, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.24, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.24, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.26, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.26, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.313, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.313, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.29 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.30, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,314, tabled by Senators Rizzotti and Gibiino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.33.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u64	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking only to specify the purpose of this amendment, which, in paragraph 2, after the words 'defines' by its own decree, proposes to insert the following following 'after the opinion of the relevant parliamentary committees'. This is because the 5 Star Movement believes that, before going to create new legal institutions under private law, in order to encourage perhaps a audience of 1,500 disabled people, in the face of an enlarged audience of 300,000 people, some controls should be carried out. We propose to go and study, like any lawgiver in good faith, who simply wants to try to optimize a system, which is largely unimplemented. I therefore call on the whole House to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u65	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.33, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.34, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u68	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, this amendment has a philosophy in itself: we are talking about the article on essential levels and, in our view, there can be no economic limits for the essential levels of serious disability. Some may object to the fact that there is Article 81 of our Constitutional Charter, but I say that we need to compare the various principles contained in the Constitution and, most likely, the principle of ensuring minimum levels of care for people with serious disabilities should override everyone else. In our view, the amendment moves along this path and must be adopted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u69	Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.34, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2,315, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,315, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.36, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.36, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2,316, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,316, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2,40, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.40, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2,317, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,317, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u72	SERRA (M5S). Mr President, with a view to the full and effective implementation of the ethical and regulatory project contained in this draft law, it is considered appropriate to plan in a substantial way actions and technical choices that fully achieve deinstitutionalisation and support for homelessness for persons with disabilities without family support, who reside in housing solutions that do not guarantee conditions of freedom and dignity such as to satisfy the full realization of the human person. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u75	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, I would like to add my signature.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u76	The Presidency takes note of this. Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.1, tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u77	Mr President, Article 3 establishes the Fund for the assistance of persons with serious disabilities without family support. Access to the Fund's assistance, care and protection measures is subject to the requirements that you will then identify. With our amendment 3.6 we call for the deletion of this paragraph, in order to avoid, as usual, finding ourselves with a government whose hands are so free that it can make, bind and allocate too discretionaryly. We then insert a common sense note with amendments 3.23 and 3.22, suggesting a form of electronic control and traceability, useful to avoid disappearances, to the magician Houdini, of denari that often in our country are inabyssed in turbid and deviated streams. It seems to us to be the least we owe to citizens who need care and attention. We therefore call for certainty of the Fund's path, through transparency and traceability checks.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u78	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u79	I am against all the amendments relating to Article 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u80	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u81	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.1. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.2, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3,300, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,300, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3301, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u84	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, with Amendment 3.301 we would like to specify, in Article 3, that the fund that is needed to finance this regulation is additional to the resources that the regions have on average committed in previous years for health, social and health interventions in favour of people with disabilities referred to in Article 1. We have already seen the trick that makes sure that the 90 million euros disappear, because they need, to be used, implementing decrees and the Ministry has six months to issue them. We are already almost to the month of June and therefore will certainly end up to who knows when, also because then the funds will have to be transferred, the Regions will have to issue also them the various implementing regulations and, therefore, will be lost. At this point, at least, we go to establish that the fund is additional to what the State each time establishes as an allocation to the individual regions. Otherwise you could do the usual short blanket trick so first we show that it exists and then we take it off. And no, my dears, at least let us make sure that this is a fund whose destination is specific and bound.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u85	Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3301, tabled by Senators Puglia and Montevecchi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u88	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, with Amendment 3.6 we propose to delete paragraph 2. We ask for its abolition, because, as usual, the Government and the majority leave their hands free. They leave their hands too free to be able to allocate, bind and define who will be able to access the measures of assistance, care and protection against the Fund, subject to the existence of requirements to be identified with the umpteenth decree. So we like to delegate so much and we like it so much then don't say what we're going to delegate, which is what these requirements are. Let me give you an example: the accreditation of assisted health residences. Even in Tuscany, a credit is like a diamond, it is forever. Any company, any Srl or Sas, that deals and makes profit on the shoulders of these patients, if it obtains an accreditation from the Region this is practically no longer revocable, because there is no regional and national law that provides for the revocation of the accreditation. Therefore, after these messes that have been made in the last ten years, in the face of all the scandals that we have denounced every day and that happen often and especially in the South, it would not be tolerable to hear yet: yes, but accreditation cannot be revoked. We do not want yet another mess to be made in the allocation of money to this Fund. That is why we call for the deletion of paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u89	Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.6, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.7 tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.8, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators, up to the words 'protection'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3.9 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.10 tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3302, tabled by Senator Bocchino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 3.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.12, tabled by Senators Bencini and Romani Maurizio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.13 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.303 tabled by Senators Rizzotti and Gibiino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.15, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.15 tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators, up to the words "The Decree". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 3.304 and 3.305 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3306 tabled by Senators Puglia and Montevecchi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3,18, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,18 tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.20 tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 3.23, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u92	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, as I said in the explanation of the amendments to Article 3, I do not understand why this issue is not taken into account by the rapporteur. Amendments 3.23 and 3.22 are of very good sense, not of common sense. I always refer to the past: with the fund for non-self-sufficiency there has always been the problem of the traceability of funds. In the South and not only, sometimes, for missed transfers or for delays, the money is inabyssed who knows where. So, in order to make a better contribution, we are simply proposing to include the traceability of this new fund, even if we are opposed to the fund itself. Once it's done, let's do it right. In this case we also propose a computerized control, so that it can be easier for both the regions and the central state. I would be curious to know why this amendment was rejected, since we are asking for transparency and traceability, unless we want to finally admit that transparency and traceability are not acceptable to this Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u93	Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.23, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.22, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3307, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.308, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u96	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we understand that when there is an increase in resources in this Parliament in a draft law, this is considered by all to be a positive note, especially when we consider that these have been tremendous years for the cutting of resources at the National Social Policy Fund, not to mention the National Fund for Non-self-sufficiency. All of us remember the famous Sacconi White Paper - which, if I am not mistaken, is the one with which you are making this law - and the tremendous cuts that he and Tremonti made to the non-self-sufficiency fund and the Social Policy Fund. And so it is clear that today any increase in resources is welcomed. Beyond the fact that we consider these resources still too small, we will abstain on Article 3 because we consider completely unclear and worrying the umpteenth delegation that we entrust to the Government. In fact, the processes of deinstitutionalization for the return and maintenance of subjects are not clear even at home or for the inclusion of the same in small communities that can reproduce the family environment. Because the intent of this bill tells us instead that we are going in a different direction. We are very concerned and we will therefore abstain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u99	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I believe that Article 3 cannot be put to the vote because it relates to Articles 5 and 6. There are some deleterious amendments to Article 5, and if they were accepted, the funds would be cut, and here we have the 90 million for all three years.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u100	It's not like that, Senator. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u101	Mr President, with regard to Amendments Nos 4.13 and 4.15, I would like to reiterate what I had said earlier. One of the aims of the Fund is to activate and strengthen intervention programmes aimed at promoting deinstitutionalisation. I would have liked it to be made clear that this should be done primarily, as a matter of priority, so that deinstitutionalisation is really one of the first objectives of this Fund. Amendments 4.25 and 4.28 are closely linked and deal with a much discussed subject. Among the purposes of the Fund, in paragraph 1 (b), I read: "Realise interventions for temporary stay in an extra-family housing solution to deal with emergency situations." Written in this way, this is an extremely disturbing sentence for all parents who read this bill, because it is not actually written that this should be done by prior permission of the disabled person himself, if he enjoys his own mental abilities, or a guardian who takes care of it. Therefore, if there is a mother with a disabled person who breaks a leg, according to the text under discussion this could already be interpreted as an emergency situation. I would therefore ask for a possible rewording of the text, as proposed by amendment 4.28; where this is not possible, I would delete this provision because it is really a ugliness. Amendment 4.316 concerns co-housing and proposes to replace this word by the following: private housing combined in a group and equipped with spaces and collective services, intended for a reasonable number of persons due to the useful area available: This amendment is more than reasonable. In the Commission I had tabled an amendment with a maximum of six people, but I was told to reformulate it in a somewhat more general way: this was my general approach. It is also written that the number is reasonable according to the square meters. Amendment 4.43, tabled in the Commission and rejected because there were conflicts between the State and the Regions, is another attempt to act for the purposes of supervision and control within these housing situations. The last amendment, 4.0.4, which I very much care about, is an attempt to introduce a virtuous act, namely the possibility for all families with disabled parents to contribute with eight per thousand through the Fund after us. This is a beginning, a possibility. One of the things that we will not be able to have with this bill are precisely the resources, so let's act positively with this virtuous circle. It will not be for next year, because we know that the funding comes in the following years, so we wait; but let's start, and since the eight per thousand can also be allocated to the State for social reasons, this seems to me a noble cause. I reserve the right to speak later in the explanation of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u102	Mr President, Article 4 deals with the aims of the Fund. We have tabled several amendments in this regard, partly inspired by the biennial action programme approved - I repeat - by this Government and by this majority. The plan for people with disabilities is therefore incorporated into amendment 4.6 with a view to carrying out individual projects of independent life and ways of supporting homelessness, encouraging the self-management of care services in order to counter the use of institutionalisation, thus giving precise priority orders. A strengthening that is also found in amendment 4.19, which clearly specifies that the intervention programmes that will favour the deinstitutionalisation and home support paths will be at the home where the person permanently resides or in which he or she has permanent domicile. All this is even more marked in Amendment 4.22, where there is a tendency to give opportunities in housing conditions with the best technological offerings. However, we invite you to keep in mind that the place must always be your own apartment, where the disabled person can manage his/her own space and time.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u103	Mr President, I have tabled two amendments to Article 4, 4.303 and 4.310. It is above all on the second point that I would like to try to draw the attention of this House to the fact that there is the possibility of buying real estate from the Fund, as provided for in Article 4. Since all the municipalities of belonging own real estate (just think about what happened with the Municipality of Rome), I think that the purchase of real estate to promote deinstitutionalization routes is to be taken into consideration only when the Municipality does not have availability of housing properties to make available.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u104	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u105	I am opposed to the amendments, with the exception of amendment 4.28, on which the following proposal for rewording remains: " Replace point (b) with the following: " (b) implement, where necessary and, in any case, in the best interests of persons with serious disabilities, interventions for temporary stay in an extra-family housing solution to deal with emergency situations, in compliance with the will of persons with serious disabilities, where possible, of their parents and those who protect their interests."
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u106	I would ask that the text be sent to President Tonini, who will be able to give us the opinion of the 5th Commission. Senator Bignami, do you accept the reformulation? BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Yeah, I'll take it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u109	TONINI (PD). President, I have read the rewording. Compared to the text in our examination, the new makes possible the use of extra-family housing solutions and from the financial point of view there is no problem. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Parente, please continue with your views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u110	On Amendment 4,43 I propose that it be withdrawn and converted into an agenda. The G4100 agenda is linked to the draft agenda that I put before Senator Bignami. If the senator accepts the call for transformation, the G4100 agenda shall be included. On the agenda G4.101, the following proposal for rewording was put forward: It committed the Government to assess the possibility of carrying out a reconnaissance aimed at the recovery of buildings to be allocated to projects aimed at promoting the autonomy and independence of persons with serious disabilities. Finally, the opinion was opposed to the draft agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u111	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u112	Senator Bignami, do you accept the call for amendment 4.43 to be changed to the agenda? BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). I accept the invitation and deliver the text of the agenda. I also withdraw Amendment 4.25 because it is deletion, while the subsequent Amendment 4.28 has an amending nature.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u115	SANTANGELO (M5S). I ask you to have a copy of Senator Bignami's agenda so as to assess whether the Senator Catalfo's agenda is actually being absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u116	We'll put it in distribution right away. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.1. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.3, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,300, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4301, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.6, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4,302.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u119	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, amendment 4302 replaces point (a) of paragraph 1 and its particularity is the inclusion of a description. Since we are talking about deinstitutionalization, it is advisable to go and insert in detail, in order to avoid bad thoughts, the following: "Preferably in the home of the family of the person with disabilities." It is okay, therefore, to activate and strengthen programs of intervention aimed at promoting the paths of deinstitutionalization, but we point out a preference, which is that of the home of the person with disabilities. That is the particularity of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u120	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4302 tabled by Senators Puglia and Montevecchi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.303, tabled by Senators Rizzotti and Gibiino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4,304, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators, up to the words "priority." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 4.13 are therefore not included. Amendment 4.12 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.15, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.305, tabled by Senator Bocchino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4306 tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4307 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.19, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.308, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.22, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.22, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.23, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.23, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u123	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that my vote on Amendment 4.15 was actually in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u124	The Presidency takes note of this. Let us move on to Amendment 4.309, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.309, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.310, tabled by Senators Rizzotti and Gibiino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.25 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.311, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.28 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u127	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would like to give a brief explanation to avoid possible confusion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This attempt does not always produce effects. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). At the hearing the parents called it a deportation action, because it was done without the consent of the guardian or the legal representative, where the subject was not able to understand or want or the action was not the result of his will. It was written and this has nothing to do with control.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u128	Senator Bignami, we've referred to two different points. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.28 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.29 to 4.33 are therefore not included. Let us move on to amendment 4.35, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.35, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 4,314, identical to amendment 4,315, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.314, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 4.315, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.316.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u131	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I know that for many of you I have already brought too much home, but the replacement of co-housing by group-united private housing with spaces and collective services for a reasonable number of people because of the useful area available does not seem so dramatic to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u132	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.316, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.317, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.318, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.319.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u135	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, Amendment 4,319 comes from the excellent work done by Senator Dirindin. For a number of reasons, the provision is not contained in the measure and, therefore, I have submitted it. The amendment aims to expunge the words "purchase" from paragraph 1 (c) of Article 4, under which the purposes of the fund are the following: to carry out innovative residential interventions for persons with serious disabilities aimed at creating housing solutions of family type and co-housing that may include the payment of the costs of renting, restructuring, etc. At least the purchase charges, come on! In essence, we also give the possibility to these structures, and therefore to trusts, to buy and, therefore, we must be careful. What we have said, Mr President, is clear: the inspiration of the measure is fine, but our great fear - we have tabled amendments to try in every way to avoid it - is that in the end the measure will be used to plunder the heritage of people with serious disabilities when their parents are no longer alive.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u136	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.319, tabled by Senators Puglia and Montevecchi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.20 tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.41, tabled by Senator Bocchino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.43 has been transformed into the G443 agenda, which has been accepted by the Government. Senator Bignami, do you still ask for the vote? BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G4.43, presented by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u137	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u139	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, in relation to this agenda... I had the text distributed to your group, Senator Puglia. PUGLIA (M5S). Technically, Senator Catalfo's agenda... I'll ask the senator whether or not she wants to keep it, or withdraw it, or sign the other one. An invitation to withdraw has been made. PUGLIA (M5S). In fact, Mr President, the G4100 agenda is different in the circumstances. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Catalfo will be free to answer me when we arrive at it. PUGLIA (M5S). All right, ma'am. In the meantime, I signed it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u140	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.44, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.46, tabled by Senators Bencini and Romani Maurizio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.47, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.321, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.322, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.49, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.50, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.323, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.324, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4,325, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.325, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4,326, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.326, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would ask those present whether they accept the invitation to withdraw the G4100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u141	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u143	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to add the signature to the G4100 agenda. Senator Bignami had tabled the amendment, 4.43 on which the Government proposed a rewording and its transformation into the agenda. Reading the text of amendment 4.43, before its rewording, it can be seen that it has a content almost identical to the required commitment of the agenda G4.100, at the first signature of Senator Catalfo. However, the wording of the G443 agenda is completely different. The text says that the Government is committed to assessing the possibility of monitoring, in synergy with the competent bodies, the supervisory activity on the structures responsible for the management of persons with serious disabilities. What kind of vigilance is it about? Isn't health surveillance already done? On the other hand, the G4.100 agenda commits the Government to ensure constant supervision of the structures for the management of persons with disabilities, in order to ensure the safety and mental and psychophysical safety of persons admitted to the interventions. This explains what kind of supervision this is about. The news unfortunately shows that in several structures there is abuse and politicians go on TV shows and promise to do something. They do it with their mouths, but then, here, we are asked to withdraw the agenda. No, Mr President, we do not withdraw it. This agenda must be voted on! [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senator Fravezzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u144	I call on the rapporteur to speak. The text under consideration is broader. The two texts are not identical.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u145	I repeat what I said earlier, because - in my opinion - the agenda is included in the previous agenda. This is a matter entrusted to the Regions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u146	We need to understand what the rapporteur's opinion is if the call for withdrawal is not accepted. We understand Senator Puglia doesn't withdraw him.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u147	Parent, rapporteur. The opinion is opposed, but not on the substance, since it is understood. PUGLIA (M5S). What do you mean?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u150	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I apologise, but I would not like us to make a mistake, which then remains as a precedent. What does it mean that the opinion is against, without going into the matter? How can we give an opinion if we do not get on the agenda? Either the opinion is positive or negative: other solutions do not exist. Previously, the rapporteur said that this text would be absorbed by the agenda resulting from the transformation of the amendment tabled by Senator Bignami. It's not like that, because we're talking about two different things. I do not want to be picky, but either the opinion is negative on the subject, or it is impossible for the rapporteur to say that the opinion is negative for who knows what other principle. I call once again on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to pay attention. By the way, we are talking about an agenda and not an amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u151	Maybe I misread it, but I can intervene to clarify. What the rapporteur has anticipated is that she does not feel that she is making a commitment to the Government to a role that is played not at state or government level, but by other actors, that is by the Regions and local authorities, in accordance with the division of competences between State, Regions and Municipalities. May I suggest to the rapporteur that we reword by adding the words: 'each within the framework of its own competences', so that the State can commit itself to what is within its competence, in a way distinct from the Region and local authority? [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] Parent, rapporteur. Mr President, it says 'in synergy with the competent bodies'. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The text should be: "Involves the Government, in synergy with the competent bodies, each..." Each has its own role and the agenda commits the Government. Parent, rapporteur. I'm going back to the government at this point. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask the representative of the Government to speak on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u152	Mr President, the fact is that the Government is committed to assessing the opportunity, but we know - as you have already said - that the ownership and competence of the regions are exercised through the ASLs. However, precisely in the premises, we are talking about the creation of innovative residential interventions (...) which may include the payment of the purchase, rental, renovation and commissioning of the necessary facilities and equipment. However, this means a cost, and that is why it is difficult. If it is reworded, it must also be reworded in the premises.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u153	In view of the fact that I do not believe that the objective at the moment is to ensure commitment, I would ask the presenters whether they agree to remove the premises, which are so much related to the law. PUGLIA (M5S). Absolutely. Mr BONDELLI, State Secretary for Labour and Social Policy. That's right. Right on the premises... president. We took them off. The premise is the bill. Mr BONDELLI, State Secretary for Labour and Social Policy. We are already talking about a structured fund for people with severe disabilities with difficulties. If we continue to expand the audience, it ends up with the poor, seriously disabled, having one euro per head. The premises, therefore, must be reworded. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The premises are not there; the premise is the law itself. Mr BONDELLI, State Secretary for Labour and Social Policy. Okay.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u156	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, I appreciate your speech, which is very timely. If we don't stop, we end up incartering. The Lega Nord Group subscribes to the agenda G4.100 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u157	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u159	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, the entire M5S Group also supports the reworded agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u160	The Presidency takes note of this. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G4.100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u161	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u163	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I subscribe to the G4.101 agenda, I accept its rewording and I call for it to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u164	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G4.101 (text 2), presented by the Divine Senators and Crosio. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u167	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to explain the agenda G4.102. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He had to do it first. Maybe she was distracted. BLUNDO (M5S). No, Mr President, I stood up and indicated that I wanted to speak, but you did not give me the floor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You show him, Senator Blundo. He already knows, in advance, that he has been given an opinion against it. BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, in the context of this bill, in which we are dealing with serious disability and assistance, my agenda calls on the Government to take action, including legislation, if the disabled person is supported by families and has help in order to be able to engage in self-entrepreneurship. This applies to disabled people with families who can start them on an activity, which is possible especially in the context of certain disabilities, such as autism. There are no rules that penalise and do not allow the disabled, helped by the guardian or family, to undertake a minimum of activity. It is important that every disabled person is supported, in order to feel a person and in any case to defend his or her dignity, despite the disability, if he or she can start a minimum activity. It is not, then, - for example - right that he should be subject to sector studies. They must, therefore, be able to take other initiatives or, in any case, there must be a willingness on the part of the Government to help people with disabilities in the direction of autonomy and not only with proper support interventions such as those we are asking for with the bill under consideration. It is a matter of showing greater openness and, therefore, being able to consider other aspects of disability as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u170	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to add the signature to agenda G4.102.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u171	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda G4.102, tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 4 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.3 tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 4.0,300, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.300, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.0.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u172	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u174	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would like to point out that the Budget Committee has expressed an opinion of simple opposition, i.e. not in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution. This is an idea that can initiate virtuous processes. I do not say that one day disabled people will not need the State, but surely a large support can derive from all the other families that have disabled, more or less serious, or even from sensitive benefactors who want to devote their 8 per thousand to this fund, the bottom of the "after us". A virtuous journey between parents can thus be started. I am sorry that the 5th Commission has given a negative opinion on Amendment 4.0.4. However, I call on the House to take courageous action to try this new path, since the new ideas must not always be bad.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u175	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u177	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I rise in an explanation of vote on Amendment 4.0.4 to strengthen the 8 per thousand thesis for various funds. I do not understand, when we allocate our 8 per thousand to the state on tax returns, how it then takes advantage of it, if in some way it already goes to implement the various funds of our country. I think it is appropriate that those who decide to leave 8 per thousand to the State also have the possibility to decide where it should bring it together, whether it is the fund for serious disability, the fund for people affected by intentional violence or other types of violence. I think it is appropriate to offer such a possibility and with this amendment it would probably pave the way for this virtuous choice.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u178	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u180	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I rise to reiterate the concepts that Senator Bencini has already expressed. The subject raised by amendment 4.0.4 is precisely this: in the part reserved for the State, when this fund is set up in the legislative text under consideration, do we want to take the opportunity to give it the opportunity to be really useful and to support families with very serious disabilities, such as those to which we are addressing the measure? We hope, however, that this bill will be a little more effective than those 400 euros which, according to ISTAT estimates, would go to people with disabilities, even to deal with a housing restructuring that meets their needs. Will you tell me, Mr President, what can these people do with 400 euros? Nothing. In this House's favour of this bill, we must remember the value of people's dignity. The EUR 400 cannot be enough to give them a breath, otherwise it means that we want to make fun of them. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u181	Senator Bonfrisco, it is not in my capacity as President to give you such answers. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.4, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Are you withdrawing amendment 4.0,301, Senator Bignami? BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u182	Mr President, I withdraw amendment 5.302, as the rule has been inserted in Article 9 (2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u183	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u184	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u185	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u186	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,300. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,300, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 5,301, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5,301, tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.2, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.302 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.303 tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u187	Mr President, we have come to the article establishing the trust, which you have searched out with more love and dedication than others. In the middle of a bill that will be remembered with the beautiful expression of the "after us," we find ourselves stuck in a new legal institution that had not even been conceived in the mind of the initial proposer of the bill. So there is a kind of motorway for this new legal institution, which should be regulated with great care and attention. Amendment 6.1 gives you the opportunity to avoid yet another legislative force to which you have now accustomed this House, with the total repeal of Article 6 and the consequent return to the sender of the stunt, or rather the clever represented by this individual instrument that allows you to spend, with tax advantages, of own assets for the benefit of a future benefit. If the translation of the word "trust" is trust, we ask ourselves what confidence the Italians can have towards all these forces that, in fact, would satisfy only 1,430 people compared to a audience of millions of people with disabilities. It is yet another regalia to private intermediaries. To stem this hemorrhage, we have tabled substitute amendments, such as proposals 6,300, 6,301 and 6,302, trusting in your analytical spirit.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u188	Mr President, I would like to withdraw amendment 6.306 because there is already the same amendment 6.305; I also withdraw amendment 6.321, because the rule has been included in paragraph 2 of Article 9.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u189	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 6.322. Since it is established for the first time in support of the disabled, for this bill "after us" the trust with exemptions and tax and property benefits, amendment 6.322 proposes to introduce, by a decree of the Minister of Economy, provisions to avoid the occurrence of a trust being constituted with the primary aim of benefiting from tax and property exemptions and regulate the ways in which the assets transferred in the trust can be sold. I therefore ask the rapporteur to accept this improved amendment, which is intended to make the text more transparent.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u190	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u191	I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 6. [[Comments of Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u192	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u193	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.1. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 6.1 tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6,300, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 6,300, tabled by Senator Pagglini and other senators, until the words: "as determined in accordance with Article 4 of the Act of 5 February 1992, No 104 (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 6,301 to 6,303 are therefore not included. Let us move on to amendment 6,304, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.304, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.17, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.20, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.305, tabled by Senator Anitori. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 6.306 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.307, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.308, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 6.24 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.25, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.309, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.310, tabled by Senators Puglia and Montevecchi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 6.30 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.31, tabled by Senator Romano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.33, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.37, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.38, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.39, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.40, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.47, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.47, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.311, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.311, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.312, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.312, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 6.313, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.313, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.314, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.314, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.315, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.315, tabled by Senator Bocchino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.316, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.316, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.317, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.317, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.318, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.318, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.319, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.319, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.320, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.320, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 6.321 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.322, tabled by Senators Rizzotti and Gibiino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u194	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u195	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u196	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, in the vote on Article 6, the vote of the 5 Star Movement Group is against. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us move on to amendment 6.0.300, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.0.300, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u197	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u198	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u199	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I do not wish to be overly pedantic, but, as colleagues in the 5 Star Movement every time one of us allows himself to vote for his colleague, who may be two metres away, object and are right, it is unacceptable that the vote should be declared by a person, who is also a Leader, because the vote is personal. As the card is personal, the vote is also personal. Those who are wrong say they are wrong. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u200	Colleagues, excuse me, but if at 7:22 p.m., at the end of a measure, one makes such an intervention, I mark my perplexity, Senator Buemi.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u201	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u202	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u203	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we are all a little tired and the easy applause that Senator Buemi takes away on these occasions seems inappropriate to me. I would invite him to extract the ball that he has inside his hole and inside the holes of the majority. [[Senator Buemi's comments.]] Secondly, it has already been done in practice: if you prefer, we stand up one by one and declare our vote. Mr President, in this case I shall withdraw what I have just said, and I would ask everyone to stand up so that we can declare the vote and do so for every vote, so that Senator Buemi will be stuck in his chair with a few extra ties. But press the button. I declare that my vote on Rule 6 is against and I call on all other Members to stand up.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u204	Colleagues, at this point I am interrupting this debate, which is out of place. Each one said his own and now let's move on. Montevecchi (M5S). Look at Buemi! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 7, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] Senator Airola, everyone is judged for the words he says. I don't think this is the time. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u205	I am opposed to both of the amendments tabled in Article 7.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u206	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u207	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.1. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 7.3, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 8, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u208	I am against all the amendments to Article 8.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u209	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u210	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.1. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.1, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 8,300, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,300, tabled by Senators Rizzotti and Gibiino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 8,301, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 8,301, tabled by Senator Bocchino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.4, tabled by Senators Bencini and Romani Maurizio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 8.5 has been withdrawn. I would like to point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8.302, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators, up to the words 'n'. 18 (...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 8,303 are therefore not included. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We move on to Article 9, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u211	I am against both of the amendments tabled in Article 9.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u212	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u213	Let us move on to Amendment 9,300, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,300, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.301, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.301, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 9. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 10. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment Tit.1 has been withdrawn. Colleagues, appreciated the circumstances, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u214	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u215	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u216	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I did not wish to speak, as I said earlier on 13 April, when the motion, adopted by the Government and voted by a majority and a minority, was adopted unanimously on a total commitment to respond to the large number of questions and questions that have not been answered and continue to have no answer. And then, unfortunately, I am still returning to the usual litany, Mr President, of a government that does not respond to its institutional commitments. (at 7.30 p.m.) (Amidei followed). This is unacceptable and I promised that I would intervene again. But I would also like to mention what Secretary Pizzetti said on that occasion, and I quote it, because there was a commitment: I welcome the motions put forward by my colleagues Mrs Amidei and Mr Lucidi because they are inspired by a positive and useful role in the intercourse between Parliament and the Government, which I consider very important because it enhances the parliamentary function also in relation to the territorial representations, and then added: I recall, for example, that the Friday morning sitting in the Chamber of Deputies is devoted to the acts of inspection union (...). Of course, as a government, I cannot allow myself to interfere in the organization of the work. What I can tell you is that, if the organization changes, we are absolutely willing to respond to the greatest and most timely needs of our colleagues with the motions. Where is all this? Where, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, is this commitment? Madam President, I conclude by quoting the lyrics of a song by a well-known Italian singer-songwriter, Vasco Rossi: "Yeah, I'm still here." I am still here to intervene continuously, until the Government takes on the commitment to Members and citizens. Please answer these questions, Government! [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S groups and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u217	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u218	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u219	ANGIONES (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as we know on 5 June, important local elections will take place in more than 1,300 municipalities in our country. In Sardinia, 101 local administrations will be renewed. When elections are held, even if they are local, the State has a duty to assure all voters (whether they are residents of the national territory or residents abroad) the exercise of the right to vote, as guaranteed by our Constitution. Transport between Sardinia and what we Sardinians call, with a generic expression, the continent is a daily problem for all those who want to leave or arrive on the island. The Government, among other things, has also recently committed itself with substantial resources to ensure territorial continuity for all Sardinians. Yet, in the coming weeks it is already foreseen the almost impossible to book an air ticket to our region, also for what the tour operators call a holiday bridge. Obviously this is good news, because it means that many tourists have chosen to spend holiday days in Sardinia. However, if in the next few hours there will not be an intervention not only of the Region (among other things widely engaged), but also of the National Government, to overcome this situation, for thousands of Sardinian immigrants, Italian citizens who have maintained a close relationship with their roots and their Region, it will be impossible to exercise that right to vote that many of our Corregional still consider their civic right. It is precisely the migrants who, in these hours, through their associations, are asking us to intervene quickly with the main companies areas that ensure the routes to Sardinia. I hope and trust that in the next few days the Government is an active part, also to confirm our respect and our closeness to our fellow countrymen who, for reasons of study or work, have not chosen, but have often been forced to leave our country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u220	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u221	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u222	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, I am here to denounce for the umpteenth time - I have been doing this for years - the situation of a worker at the National Museum of Cinema in Turin, Federico Altieri, who today began the hunger strike under the palace of the Municipality of Turin, because Fassino continues not to listen to him and not to keep the promise he made him, that is to solve his case. I say this in this House because this worker, of whom I have already spoken extensively, depended on the Rear cooperative, which was and continues to be the head of your President of the Council of the Piedmont Laus Region, the PD, who pays the workers five euros (today three) per hour. Altieri was unfairly dismissed, as recognized by the Turin Court of Appeal, as retaliation by Laus, because he complained about this unworthy treatment of workers. He was then reinstated, called Ken Loach asking him not to withdraw the award that the Museo del Cinema in Turin had to give him for his film career, and he answered him because he felt ashamed of this story. Fassino intervened, because there was a fuss (this in 2012) and promised that he would resolve this situation. Well, the situation has never resolved, just as the unworthy conflict of interest and the immoral behavior of Laus that, a short time ago, in this very building told me: You know, Airola, it's the law that allows me to pay three euros per hour for the workers. We are talking about a law that, moreover, this Parliament and the PD wanted to change - words of Stefano Esposito, rapporteur of the measure on the code of contracts - removing the maximum reduction to the code of contracts, but that - always for admission of Stefano Esposito - for the interests of the PD, your Legacoop and your cooperatives, you have restored. This is the country in which we live, on the contrary: a country in which the party that was to defend the rights of workers, exploits them, making money. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] He exploits them by ruining contracts, accomplices the unions, who continue to sign contracts from multiservices of three euros per hour. CGIL, CISL and UIL, shame yourselves! I will continue to denounce him, and I want to see in Turin, even in the election campaign, if Fassino solves this problem once and for all. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Negro slaves!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u223	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u224	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u225	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Madam President, the mayor of Bari, Antonio Decaro, the pupil of President Renzi and rising astronomer of the Apulian PD, is demonstrating in these days the idea of development that this majority of Government has of our cities. In fact, in the beautiful city of Bari, dear Decaro has decided to bring down 18 majestic pines in via Caldarola, in the district of Japigia, to make room for magnificent concrete roundabouts, which will cost the poor citizens of Bari a million euros: a splendid example of love for the public green and for the health of the citizens. Twenty more trees will be cut down next week. Again, in the project to redo the renowned Via Sparano, again in Bari, the dear Decaro has ready a project that provides for the felling of as many as 25 palm trees in favor of an unwavering public cementification. In short, the citizens of Rome, Naples, Turin and Milan know which model of city has in mind the dear Renzi, with his trusty mayors and candidates mayors: less green and more concrete. In Bari the public green is already almost non-existent. Everyone knows the benefits for the health of the citizens and the health of the urban environments, yet the Renziano dear Decaro, aspiring woodcutters, squanders public money not for new gardens where to play our children, but for useless concrete works, to increase circulation and pollution. Happy birthday to you all!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u226	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-634.ana.u227	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 26 May, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.40 p.m.
