ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u4	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 54-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. I would also remind you that at its meeting on 26 April the rapporteur carried out the oral report, a suspensive matter was rejected and the general discussion took place. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u9	Mr President, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u10	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u11	Mr President, I reserve the right to speak in expressing my views on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u12	We shall proceed with the examination of the articles in the text proposed by the Commission. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u13	Mr President, Amendment 1,401 has the following qualifying elements. The use of the expression 'in such a way that there is a real danger of spreading', that is to say that incitement and incitement or propaganda are not punished in an end to itself but when the incitement, incitement or propaganda results in a real danger of spreading - and therefore the real risk that the commission of a crime can be determined - is a guarantee, an important specific way, if pronounced within a legislative assembly, in dealing with the problem. In fact, it is in such a way that it is a modal expression of demonstration of how conduct must be carried out, in line with the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation, but also with the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, and not only with regard to offences of danger and crimes of opinion. We are, in fact, in the hot topic that leads to an intertwining of the crime of danger and of the crime of opinion; therefore, historical issues of criminal law, not only national but I would say criminal law as such. The expression therefore also finds comfort in the jurisprudence of legitimacy and in the constitutional jurisprudence that recognize the crime of opinion compatible with our constitutional structure if it actually creates a real danger that something can derive from it. This expression - an important point, senators and senators - is a substitute for the word 'publicly', an adverb which - in my opinion - has historically played an extremely important role. In fact, that a fact is committed in public determines the risk of spreading and spreading incitement or propaganda. However, this is a term which, in a sense, does not make the whole idea of the guarantee that must be met on the spot. Similarly, it is an anachronistic term. So it is not true that there are no situations between the public and the private in fact, especially determined by modernity, that do not deserve to be taken into consideration. What do I mean? Why is this expression more guaranteeing than the term "publicly"? The fact that a fact is committed in public only leads to a presumption of spreading the incitement, incitement or propaganda because some in a square, at nighttime, can carry out incitement or incitement without anyone listening to it and, therefore, without there being the risk of spreading and spreading the incitement. When you use the term "publicly" you evoke an important category - I recognize it quite clearly - but it does not solve the problem in full by how, on the contrary, it better solves an expression that photographes what from the "publicly" should derive, that is, a concrete danger of spreading incitement, incitement or propaganda. Moreover, I said that the expression "publicly" is anachronistic because it represents, in a certain sense, the conflict between the public and the private, typical of a society that did not know the world of social networks and the web. In fact, there are contexts of modernity that, while escaping the definition and the public or private label, can determine the uncontrolled and quantitatively dramatic spread of facts that constitute incitement to hatred, violence and anything else. The expression "publicly" does not cover this area which, on the contrary, with reference not only to modernity, but - above all - to the danger of terrorism that is frequently expressed through telematic sites, would be realized in facts that - I repeat - are not public (he who writes inside his room on a site spreading terrorist proclamations certainly does not do so in public), but endowed with a widespread scope that must of course be sanctioned by criminal law. I am beginning to conclude, although I can say many other things on the subject. Another aspect that I would like to highlight is that we do not punish the negation of the Shoah, war crimes, genocide and against humanity as an end in itself, thus leading to the risk of preventing cultural debate. This is not the case because a clear expression is used - or is based in whole or in part - which means that denial must be essentially a means by which the Shoah and the crimes of war, genocide and against humanity are exploited to incite violence. This is the setup of the norm. Therefore, if some people simply deny, but not functionally, i.e. by using denial to incite violence, the fact is not of criminal importance. For these reasons, I believe that Amendment 1,401 solves the problem of criminality that is extended to facts that cannot be described as public because they remain private, but have a huge spread in the world of the web. In the same way, it is an amending proposal that frees the manifestation of thought.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u14	Mr President, first of all, I would like to understand whether this amendment would cause the other amendments concerning certain particular aspects of the measure to lapse. I would also like to say at once that this is a very strange measure, which also justifies our successive amending proposals. The rapporteur, Mr D'Ascola, has said things that are not true. The rule that we approve of does not say that at all. I would like to focus on the term 'publicizing' (not inciting) and advertising, as you know, is linked to the 'Mancino law' and to an aggression that takes place when there are ethnic or racial motives. It is a beastly thing: let us give to those who deny certain events. Actually, it's hundreds of events. Yesterday I wrote an article: we go from the story of the American Indians, to the current events of Israel, to the wars in Bosnia, to the Italian colonial affair. In fact, according to this bill, all the debate between Indro Montanelli and Del Boca on our colonial affair - in which Del Boca claimed that Italy had committed acts of genocide and war crimes and Montanelli denied it, arguing on the basis of a colonization that, according to him, had been made by an Italy that had a technological and cultural superiority, and had brought civilization to those lands, in some way - would be criminally prosecutable. That is, it would be criminal to prosecute those who publish a book in which they express a vision of a certain type of our colonial affair. But the bestiality is that we strike with an aggression who denies genocide, the Shoah, war crimes, but not who exalts them. In fact, if I deny the Armenian genocide I have the aggression; if I exalt it, saying that they did well, I do not have the aggression. This point is already addressed in one of our amendments: is it possible that anyone who denies that a fact has happened and not someone who exalts a genocide, a war crime or against humanity might be punished by the attack? I would also remind you that this text covers thousands and thousands of cases. Friends of Israel - and there are - please read on the websites the statements of the Iranian Government, the UN Justice Commission and various blogs accusing Israel of war crimes and crimes against humanity based on race and ethnicity. It is said that in Gaza, when Israel defended itself, for racial and ethnic reasons (exactly what we have foreseen in our bill), it committed war crimes. We have written not only referring to the Holocaust, but also to all kinds of genocide, crime against humanity and war crime. Article 8 of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, which I read the other day, consists of five pages. It defines what is meant by "war crimes." We have tabled one of our amendments on this. "Crime of war" is any kind of event involving even a person who is carried out during a war and whose denial, according to the vision of this bill, would be criminally persecuted if it were advertised. And it's worse what Senator D'Ascola wrote. We have deleted the word "publicly" but if a person writes an article or a book in which he supports certain thesis, it is precisely in the case of the amendment tabled by the rapporteur. In fact, it is expected that the crime will have an effect if the propaganda is committed in such a way that there is a real danger of spreading. But if a person writes a book or article it is obvious that there is a danger of spreading, because books are written on purpose! Let us admit that, on the charge of Israel's war crimes, I write a book denying that Israel is a racist country or that it acts for reasons of ethnic cleansing, as its opponents and as the Arab governments claim; we admit that I deny the existence of these war crimes; what happens? That I have the assault punishable by imprisonment from two to six years? Of course, the objection in the Commission was: but then you get away with the process. The complaint will come, but then you will see the limit and propaganda that has been made of certain events, which concern Israel. I said that the real victim of this law is called the State of Israel. We should have done what the university professors heard in the Commission told us: 70% argued that there was no need for a law on the denial of the Shoah, while 30% said that a law is good, but only on the Holocaust, advising not to drown the Holocaust in tens of thousands of other facts. Go and see the war crimes: 170 Bosnian, Croatian, Serbian war criminals, already condemned by an international court in a war that was ethnically cleansing Serbs against Croatians, Croatians against Serbs, Muslims against Croatian Catholics. In all the single and terrible episodes of that war, who is it that determines whether someone else's war crime against someone else is negable or not? Katyń's graves are a historical episode attributed for forty years to the Germans, until the historical revision showed that instead Stalin had ordered the massacre. If I deny Stalin's state truth, is there an assault? Can I review or deny some of the episodes of the thousands of war crimes before the International Courts? There are thousands and thousands of reports of war crimes. Can I or can I not say that I deny this because I attribute it not to the Croats but to the Bosnians, or not to the Bosnians but to the Serbs? Or is my propaganda for ethnic cleansing at a time when it does not correspond to a biased view? Let's talk about the extermination of American Indians. There is a technical term that indicates it, but I can argue that it was inevitable and not that it was genocide, as it is called, because people who had a culture and a way of technical operation far superior to people who had remained essentially Neolithic have arrived from Europe. Today there are 300 million people in the United States and there were one million natives. Can I say that there was an ethnic superiority of whites when they went to America over the natives and that all this has led to a situation that I context have been a genocide? No, it's because I'm being attacked. I can be denounced for this statement, for the combined provisions of the Mancino law and what we have written. If this House, as usual, wants to act like nothing, when the legislative product comes out, it will receive whistles, whistles and rabble from all over the world of law and historians, and it will be taken as an extravagance. I remember that this measure should have been examined a year and a half ago (because there was a commemoration day) even in the legislative forum: it came to the Chamber, then it was changed, it went to the House, then it was changed again, and now it goes back to the Senate. Tonight, if it will be approved, go home and when your son, wife or relative attorney will ask you "sorry," but what crime or aggravating action have you applied today?Try to explain to them that Parliament has approved an attack and try to explain the combined provisions of Article 3 of the Mancino law how it engages with ethnic or racial phenomenon, how it engages with propaganda and how it engages with tens of thousands of cases. I have mentioned only a few of the cases referred to in Article 8 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court in my first signature amendment 1,410 asking for them to be removed. They are considered war crimes: the destruction and appropriation of property, not justified by military needs, deportation, transfer or illegal detention, The transfer, directly or indirectly, by the occupying power, of part of its civilian population. Destroy or confiscate assets of the enemy unless confiscation or destruction is imperatively required by the needs of war. These are war crimes. How is military operations, such as self-defense, such as those of Israel, to establish that these cases, which are physiological when there is a conflict, are war crimes and therefore apply the aggression that we give under the Mancino law? Because the Arab countries, the Palestinians - go and see the sites - and the UN Commission on Human Rights when it was presided over by Libya, say that they are war crimes and crimes against humanity made by a state that is built on racial hatred, ethnic cleansing of opponents. This is said publicly to Israel. So the question is: for the umpteenth time, what are we doing? Why do we have to strike at freedom of thought? As long as there was incitement, I can understand. But here we are talking about propaganda. Propaganda means diffusion; propaganda means spreading ideas. I therefore wonder why we must strike at the spread of ideas, when we deny a certain circumstance of the thousands I mentioned or a history such as the Italian colonial one, or the history of the United States or that of Israel or that of the Balkan war and at the same time we do not condemn those who exalt an extermination, genocide or the holocaust. In these cases there is no aggression; there is only denial. Mr President, then there is always the question of whether, once Senator D'Ascola's amendment has been adopted, the others remain alive or lapse.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u15	Mr President, I would not have presented Amendment No 1,411, which proposes, no more or less, the text voted unanimously by this House just a year ago, but I asked to do so because the other day the President of the Commission Justice in the House had the good pleasure to say that the presentation of this amendment did not know for what purpose I was aiming for. Instead, for everyone to know this, this amendment was tabled by the rapporteur, to whom I acknowledge not only that I spoke fully in this House before Mrs Ferranti's speech, to whom I had to reply in the sense that not only did this House vote unanimously, but that the text that came out of this House was voted in the Chamber's Justice Commission, chaired by Mrs Ferranti. This means that it has only been changed in this House, and it was not true what you say, namely that there are trials that went to waste. Let's see why it is correct to use the expression "publicly". I know, as usual, you've made arrangements. A majority that makes a discussion, deepens the issue in the Senate Justice Commission, arrives at an agreement not based on small concessions, but on the correct interpretation of the rules and on this the government expresses the favorable opinion; so we arrive in the Chamber in February 2015 obtaining almost the unanimity of the Assembly. The provision passes to the Chamber, where the use of the word "publicly" is confirmed. Why is it used? I listened to President D'Ascola who (I understand), being part of the majority, was forced to find an escamotage. I say this, Mr D'Ascola, because you teach me that Law No 654 of 1975 was amended by Mr Mancino in 1993 and then further in 2006, when it was introduced, instead of the expression 'incites' the expression 'incites'. The Court of Cassation, although having recognized the continuity of legislation, had to state (just read the judgments of 2015) the need for something that cannot be a mere private conduct, which must go beyond. Therefore, if we do not insert the word 'publicly', we must consider that the system of our penal code is based on Articles 414, 414-bis (which we have introduced together in the past legislature on violence against women and paedophilia) and 415. All articles contain the word "publicly" correctly. Do you realize that? If President Zanda, with whom we have known for years, invited me to his house and I spoke badly about the Shoah or denied its existence, would that be a crime? We had introduced a balance, which the penal code claims, because of the incitement: a balance between the freedom of expression of any idea and the hypothesis of the crime that must be such as to affect and, therefore, here are the reasons for the public. At the same time we were told, in particular the Government, that the text had been modified in the House because they were concerned about the hypothesis of terrorism. Then, with respect to the text voted by the Senate, my amendment provided for a specific aggravating factor for the hypothesis of terrorism, taking into account precisely the indications coming from the government and the majority. Suddenly we came out of the Commission that, on the point of the 'publicly', relating to the first part of the text, on a proposal from the rapporteur and voted unanimously with a favourable opinion from the Government, something has changed. What's been going on for a week? You don't get it. We have had the referral back to the Commission on the second part, the amendment of Article 414 of the penal code, three times, because the Government asked for a solution that could take account of my amendment. But on the first part, which we had all voted unanimously, there was no debate. So what happened? What are the reasons for changing the direction of a debate and a deepening that has taken place, not only in these days, but for a year now, because it was the same that happened last year? That is why, Mr President, I maintain my amendment 1,411, although I understand that the order in the vote on the amendments will be such that you will empty President D'Ascola's amendment 1,401: I will certainly not vote against the bill in the end, because I support the battle against those who deny the Shoah and against the regurgitation of anti-Semitism that is also in our country. It is wrong not to recognise them and I will not be able to vote against them. But you take advantage of this. I shall abstain then from voting, because what happened is serious: you have changed the rule on a serious issue that we all shared and on which there was the force of unanimity, because it condemned certain expressions that are politically still present in our country. I think he would have had a different strength. [[Applause from Senator Carraro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u16	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u19	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, let me inform you: before the vote on Senator D'Ascola's amendment 1,401 will it be possible for the representatives of the groups to speak in an explanation of vote? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Can I answer that? Are you done? If you have another question, ask it immediately. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Depending on the answer. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It should concentrate on the questions in order to enable the Presidency to respond. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I'll say it right away, Mr. President. I have no intention of delaying the approval of this bill, but I register, albeit small, the persistence of a practice which the presidency of the Senate has, last but not least, stigmatized, i.e. the submission of so-called kangaroo amendments. It is clear that, in this case, we are facing a "kangaroo" or a "kangaroo." Senator Marin, you're sorry, I'm obliged to speak to the presidency, but if the presidency doesn't listen to me, I have to... president. I'm sorry. I was distracted by a request from a colleague. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I'm asking for a little attention. It is clear that this amendment precludes any discussion of all other amendments. Basically, it will not be possible to deal with the individual issues which have already been discussed in the Commission and which, in fact, were also the subject of almost unanimous agreement. Mr President, that is where my question arises. At this point, we could easily ask for a deadline for submission of sub-amendments with respect to an amendment which is presented individually by the President and not by the rapporteur of the measure itself. However, things are now done and agreements are reached, so we fully understand what the outcome of the next path will be. But since we would like to speak before Amendment No 1,401 is put to the vote, we would like to be sure that this will be allowed to happen.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u20	Senator Palma, the Presidency is aware of what you have said, so much so that Senator D'Ascola's amendment 1,401, which in fact fully replaces the only article and becomes the draft law itself, would lead to a direct passage - now we move on with the opinions that have not yet been expressed - to the final explanations of vote, which would therefore allow the Assembly to comment also on the innovative proposal, which in itself becomes the draft law. However, we will also have the opportunity to speak in the debate on Article 1. Therefore, it is possible to speak before this stage of the final explanations of vote. The possible adoption of amendment 1,401 would lead to the adoption of the bill as a whole. It is therefore obvious that your question about foreclosure of the other amendments is correct because it would logically result in foreclosure of the other amendments. As I said, we will be able to have a debate on Article 1 in which Members will be able to speak and then, once we have also acquired the opinions, it is obvious that we will go straight to the final explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u21	So, to be clear, Mr President, having no small doubts about Amendment No 1,401 and intending to speak on this in critical and more specific terms than Senator Caliendo's speech, when will I be allowed to speak? Before the vote or not? If it is not before the vote, I would ask you to speak at the stage of the explanation of the amendments because I have tabled another amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u22	You will be able to speak before the vote on Rule 1 will be taken. You'll be able to intervene now.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u23	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Will I speak after the vote on Amendment No 1,401?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u24	No, he'll intervene first. We've made it clear. By the way, I have already taken note of your explanation of vote. We can now have the debate on Article 1 and, therefore, colleagues can speak. Senator Quagliariello is enrolling to speak. We have your request and Senators Malan, Giovanardi and Calderoli. As you can see, there is a debate that takes place earlier, including opinions. Then, if necessary, we will move on to the final explanations of vote, but there may be a debate on Article 1. You will use your time to say what you think about the amendment or the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u27	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I wish to speak on the order of business. Here we are in the same case as the amendments signed by Esposito and Cociancich: they are, that is, amendments that should have been signed by the Government and which are instead introduced to a Member of Parliament, in order to prevent sub-emendancy. I believe that this issue is even more serious, because the signatory to the amendment is the President of the Commission, Justice, and so there would have been plenty of time and opportunity to discuss it in the Commission. Since the amendment has been tabled in this House, with the consequences that you have just mentioned, Mr President, the House is deprived of the opportunity to debate it and submit it, although there will be criticism and everything else. Mr President, since we have time this morning to proceed, I would like to appeal to paragraph 5 of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, which provides for the possibility of amending and subemending other amendments, in conjunction, for example, with amendments already adopted by this House. In particular, the last period of that paragraph says that the President may, however, allow amendments to be tabled where appropriate outside the cases referred to above. Since I believe that this is a situation of absolute exceptionality, which risks creating a practice which prevents Parliament from voting on all the other amendments, I would ask you to have one hour to submit the sub-amendments to the D'Ascola amendment. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u28	Mr Calderoli, your reference to the Rules of Procedure is correct and, while we are following a correct procedure, since an amendment has been tabled, I believe that we can give time until 11 a.m. to present any sub-amendments. I therefore suspend the sitting, which will resume at 11 a.m., in order to present sub-amendments immediately, since the matter is known. (The sitting was suspended at 10.13 a.m. and resumed at 11.03.) Colleagues, as a number of sub-amendments have been tabled, in order to allow the printing and distribution of the sub-amendments, I suspend the sitting for a further fifteen minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 11.04 a.m. and resumed at 11.22 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u29	I communicate that the sheets bearing the signatures for the request for popular referendum, promoted by one fifth of the members of the Senate, on the text of the Constitutional Law which includes provisions for the overcoming of bicameralism, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the containment of the running costs of the institutions, the abolition of the CNEL and the revision of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, were delivered, at the request of the same, to Senator Luigi Zanda, delegate, with Senators Renato Schifani and Karl Zeller, to deposit the request at the Registry of the Court of Cassation, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 6 of Law No 352 of 25 May 1970.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u30	I invite the presenters to explain the sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u31	Mr President, I would like to explain the content of the amending proposals, and then to speak in the explanation of vote with regard to each amendment. First of all, I would like to thank Senator Caliendo for having signed the amendments before me. I had no doubt about it, and I was well aware that the rash statements of some Member of Parliament from the other branch of Parliament would be of no use to me. The problem that arises concerns important principles such as freedom of opinion and the manifestation of thought. As always happens, everything is thrown into confusion. The term "publicly" would have the effect of bringing down a whole series of criminal proceedings pending for the offences referred to in Article 3 of Law No 654 of 1975. How many and what are these trials? Alas, I regret to say that there is no trace of these pending trials. So, basically, we are in the presence of a suggestion that is still at nothing. I have read carefully the amendment tabled not by the rapporteur, but by President D'Ascola, as I listened carefully to her speech. I must say the truth: it does not seem to me that President D'Ascola has made a great effort of a theoretical or doctrinal nature. At a time when he proposes to replace the word "publicly" with the expression "cagioni" in a concrete way the possible diffusion" (or other similar expression), he repeats the exact formula already put forward by the Constitutional Court in judgment n. 65 of 1975, according to which it is stated that not every public incitement is punished, but that public incitement must be punished which, by its modalities, is capable of causing a concrete danger of diffusion. So - and President D'Ascola will excuse me - there is a correct compilation work and there is no creative work. I have also heard, in the speech of President D'Ascola, that there are other ways of incitement or incitement, and the senator referred - for example - to Facebook and basically to the computer media. But I remind President D'Ascola that the fourth paragraph of Article 414 provides, precisely, for a further worsening of the penalty precisely when the incitement (in that case) is committed through the computer means. Therefore, the modes of the medium may be an addictive one, but they do not bring water to the mill of the objective path. The truth of the matter, Senators, is that in the Justice Committee a full agreement had been reached on the text of the measure. But then - who knows why - the stone guest present in this House (even if it is not seen) gave a different input and, attacking Senator Caliendo, called to order the members of his party belonging to the Commission: there can no longer be the term "publicly". But if there can no longer be the term 'publicly', Senators, what sense does it have to write "cagioni" the real danger of "if this is the formula that the Constitutional Court indicates for realizing public incitement? This is a hypocritical amendment, which basically seeks to save goats and cabbages, to leave the concept of the "publicly" intact, evidently replacing it with the words of the Constitutional Court. But now, senators, I apologize and invite you to pay attention for a moment. Article 3 of the Royal Law is essentially constituted in the following terms: in point (a) a sentence of up to one year and six months for certain behaviors is expected and in point (b) a sentence of up to four years for other behaviors is expected. In both cases there is the term "stiga". Do you realize that, at the moment when, following Senator D'Ascola's amendment, we insert a new paragraph and say that, if the behaviors referred to in letters a) and b) are put in place in such a way as to cause a real danger, based on the Shoah or on the denial of other war crimes, it automatically affirms the punishableness of the letters a) and b) normal, that is, of the basic hypothesis, even when the incitement is not such as to cause a real danger? Which is to say - as unpleasant and absolutely intolerable as the phrase may be - that if in your private life (for example speaking in a living room or with a friend) you had to say, hypothetically, that the Egyptian ethnicity is superior to the Italian one being that much older culture, you would incur, only for this reason, the crime referred to in letter a). Basically, therefore, we would have an incitement punishable in total exception to the system, which provides for the punishableness of the incitement only if accepted - and in that case there is a contest in the crime committed - or the possibility for the judge to impose a security measure if not accepted. Our criminal law system provides for the punishable incitement only in three cases: Articles 414, 414-a and 415 of the penal code, i.e. when that incitement is public. In fact, basically the legislator correctly punishes not the incitement itself, but the danger that can arise from public incitement and, therefore, detrimental to the so-called public order. But from this point of view we will then deal with the perplexities that I have had in relation to the individual points. Let me say something. Article 3 (a) of the Royal Law punishes certain behavior (propagandating superiority, racial hatred and so on) with a sentence of up to one year and six months and letter (b) punishes with a sentence of up to four months those who incite or commit acts of violence. Can you explain to me the reason why two behaviors punished by the legislator in different terms, because their gravity is different, must have an identical punishment because of the D'Ascola amendment? And why, for example, should the conduct provided for in point (a), which is punished for up to a year and six months in principle, be punished for up to six years, i.e. with a sentence three times higher than its maximum? And how can you fail to see that the sentence of up to six years for those who propaganda racial hatred based on the denial of the Shoah is in the highest and at most slightly lower than those who publicly instigate the commission of terrorist crimes? You will do what you have to do: you have reached the agreement and, therefore, you will vote and there are no problems, but you will take responsibility for what you will do. I would remind everyone, however, that the criminal system does not allow unreasonable distonies, except for the intervention of the Constitutional Court. And that is why we had inserted the term "publicly" before and had little lowered, in the total agreement of all, the maximum penalties provided for the crime of incitement to commit crimes. As a final point, the penalty is from two years to six years if propaganda is based on the denial of the Shoah. You explain to me the reason why, if I just deny the Shoah, how is it right that it is - as it is right that it is not with regard to denying the Shoah, but with respect to the effect - it does not trigger any malpractice? This obviously amounts to saying that it is possible for historians, for some passing madman to deny the Shoah. But do you explain to me the reason why, if I commit a whole series of behaviors without denying the Shoah, I must be punished even if they are private, while I cannot be punished if they are public? I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, you have to explain to me the reason why one who instigates racial hatred must be punished even if that incitement is absolutely unfit to produce effects, while it cannot be punished in the same identical case, that is, a non-productive incitement of effects, if it says the same, identifying what, however, is based on its saying on the denial of the Shoah. It's a simple matter, it's a matter of common sense. How do you not realize that this law, which will satisfy the guest of stone, basically lends its side to different and not indifferent constitutional wounds?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u34	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I would like to say that, if Senator Palma wanted to ask the Group of the Democratic Party, which he appointed, for the recognition of Senator Caliendo and all the others who worked on this measure in the Commission, for having found the best possible wording, I would gladly say here in this House that the work done in the Commission was very serious and had no ulterior motive. Having said that, I am speaking on the order of business because, Mr President, the procedure we are using is very forced - if you will allow me - because we are talking about an important measure to which we attach great importance and which has as its object the special punishable behaviour of negation of a crime - I do not know whether to define it as such or what other formula I could use - or a genocide such as that of the Shoah, which is the greatest in the history of the modern world. This measure was opposed: it was examined in the Commission, where it was approved about a year ago; when it came to the House it returned to the Commission, which reviewed it; it came to the House and it was approved; it went to the House, which amended it. We now have the task of finding a solution, if possible quickly, to a text shared by the House and the Senate and taking into account all the recommendations that we have heard emerge in the long debate in the Commission and in this House. My appeal therefore goes to the House and personally to Senators Palma and Calderoli. To the latter, who has asked for time to submend a text of parliamentary origin, I say that I do not remember great precedents in which this time has been granted and produced 17 sub-amendments. However, I have now heard from Senator Palma the reason why this whole procedure was adopted, which was to allow 17 statements to be made in an explanation of vote that President Palma announced. My appeal is to the House and to each senator personally. Let us bear in mind what we are discussing. We're discussing something very serious and delicate. I personally feel a duty. I don't know which stone party Senator Palma was talking about. I don't know any stone convivials, nor do I listen to them. He will have another costume, but it is not my costume to listen to them or to take them into account. But I also speak to him. Senator Palma's announcement to make an intervention on every sub-amendment, compared to a very unusual procedure, leads me to call this by his name: it is a obstructive behavior. I would therefore like to draw the House's attention to the fact that the seriousness of the matter that we are dealing with frankly does not deserve such behaviour. [[Comments of Senator Palma]] My point is, therefore, to approve this measure in the manner and with the votes by which the House will decide to do so. Let us do this, however, in a way that does not give rise to interpretations of the obstructive mode of our behavior. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Longo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u35	President Zanda, as regards your assessment - the respect - of any forcings, I would remind you that earlier some Members have referred to a regulation which there are precedents, such as the Italicum, which should not be mentioned, where a procedure of this nature has been followed in order to enable a text which had a significant impact to be subjugated. To deepen a sensitive subject which, in terms of conscience, finds the sensitivity of all, I believe it is a faculty that the Presidency has exercised in compliance with the Rules of Procedure and in order to promote the achievement of the best solutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u38	Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business and I logically take back what Mr Zanda has told us. He told us that an excellent and thorough work was done in the Commission; he acknowledged this to Senator Caliendo. The members of the Commission obviously participated in this work, but it was fundamentally denied by an amendment tabled directly in this House. I have listened to the debate that introduced today; if I understood Mr Caliendo's words correctly, he believes that this work has been objectively denied. This dynamic is rooted in a de facto situation, Senator Zanda, which I would like to return to in the course of the debate, but which I would like to make clear from the outset: there is no debate here between those who believe that the Shoah was not a horrible crime and those who believe that it was. I believe that this House on this point is unanimous in its condemnation. There is another problem and this is apart from what has been done in the Commission and it requires further consideration in this House: the problem is whether it is possible to introduce opinion crimes on such issues, that is, whether they belong, even when they affect such things as those we are talking about, to a non-liberal culture, of which we have a deep trace in a code that goes back to another period of our history, and therefore must be treated very carefully. I believe that this House can and should be called upon to consider this matter independently. That is why I believe that there should be no obstructionist attitude, but there should be no haste. The rush is not recommended either by the procedure that has been used in the interaction between the Commission and the House, nor by the depth of the matter, because how to intervene on this matter is an issue on which, in other periods, parliamentary debates have lasted months and months. Frankly, if you spend a few more moments discussing some sub-amendment that was produced in a three-quarters of an hour stop, I don't think it's a crime or even an injured majesty. [[Senator Comrade is nodding his desire to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u39	Mr President, I would like to explain sub-amendment 1,401/2, which we have proposed (together with sub-amendment 1,401/6) following the debate that has taken place so far, which I think is necessary. I am sorry that President Zanda believes that it is not appropriate to open a discussion on these sub-amendments to an amendment that completely overwhelms the work done in the Commission. I believe that this is a note that cannot be accepted or perhaps even tolerated. With the work that has been done in the Commission, however, reaching wide margins of majority if not almost unanimous, in order to balance the whole system and recognizing that the Mancino law raises some doubts, in agreement with almost all the parliamentary groups, if not all, it was thought to include the adverb publicly. 11:45 a.m. (Follows STEFANI). It is a very important adverb which, in our opinion, served to balance the scope of a rule that otherwise goes to punish behaviour that in itself is not absolutely dangerous, as was rightly pointed out by Senator Palma. For this reason, with sub-amendment 1,401/2 we propose its reintegration. Otherwise, if in a private conversation a consideration emerges as, for example, since we Venetians consider ourselves a people and therefore a sort of ethnicity, to say that the Venetian people for some reason can be considered more skilled or more efficient than any other, they would incur a crime. We felt that the Mancino law was in itself poorly structured and needed intervention, and what we had done in the Commission was right work. To be surprised in this House is an amendment such as the one proposed by President D'Ascola which destabilizes us. In the corridors there was talk of an amendment by the government and we already expected to have a deadline to submit the sub-amendments. On the other hand, only by the grace of the President who has allowed us to present these sub-amendments, have we opened a stage of debate, which had to be done in the Commission if we were to achieve this formulation of the rule. We have wasted hours of debate and voting because, when we arrive in this House, everything is overwhelmed. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Gentlemen, this is not an attitude of political correctness and cooperation, either between a minority by majority or within the same majority, since the amendments passed in the Commission, which provided for the engraving, were proposed by the majority. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We believe, therefore, not for obstructive purposes but for considerations of merit, that the Mancino law must be rebalanced. This inscription was right and for this reason we propose it again. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u40	Senator Giovanardi or Senator Compañera may intervene in the illustration, you must decide. Comrade (CoR). I asked for the floor on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We are in the process of illustrating the sub-meditations. Then, intervene for the illustration. Comrade (CoR). I asked to intervene after Senators Zanda and Quagliariello on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It seems to me that that phase is over. Comrade (CoR). Whatever you say.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u41	Madam President, if President Zanda were to pay attention, I would like to tell him that one of the surreal things we are witnessing is that I fully agree with him. He said it was about hitting the denial of an event. Please, let me ask Senator Zanda for a moment of attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u42	Senator Giovanardi, we cannot force Senator Zanda to listen to you.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u43	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). But the colleague prevents him from hearing. I agree perfectly with the denial of a historical fact of a gravity never experienced in the history of humanity as the Holocaust of the Jewish people. President Zanda, the problem is that we have watered it down with another 20,000. In fact, when it is said that the rule is applied to the denial of the crimes referred to in Articles 7, 8 and 9 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court, if you look at them, you realize that they include genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. Well, to say that we strike with the same criminal law the holocaust, the killing of houses during a military operation - which is also a war crime - or the killing of a single person, it seems incredible to me. How do we put in the same text and punish with the same severity of sanction those who deny the holocaust and those who deny one of the 20,000 cases that are already before international courts all over the world, from the Balkan wars to the unrest that happens in Africa? Colleagues senators, it will take a limit, even in the legislative technique, not to fall into the grotesque! The amendment tabled by President D'Ascola says that imprisonment from two to six years is applied if propaganda is committed so that there is a real danger of spreading it. But propaganda, if you take any dictionary, means spreading and spreading. Is propaganda hit if there is a real danger of propaganda spreading? Can such a thing be written by law, when propaganda by definition is the spread of something? It is like saying that it is permissible to write an article or book in which certain opinions are advertised, but there must be no danger of it spreading. I think anyone who should see a text of this kind would say: what did you write? What are you talking about? President Zanda, I would like someone to challenge me with all the statements I have made earlier concerning our amendments, which aim to limit criminal intervention to genocide and the holocaust. Let us not extend it to a historical research on the colonial responsibilities of Italy in Africa and the correspondence between Montanelli and Del Boca, or to all the events of the Balkans and everything that has happened in that context. Don't stretch it out! Official reports of a gentleman who was instructed by the United Nations, or the Human Rights Committee, in 2008 to draw up a report on Israel saying that Israel is responsible for ethnic cleansing and a whole series of cases. With the adoption of Amendment No 1,401, there is a logic whereby anyone wishing to contest or deny, in an article, that Israel is guilty of ethnic cleansing would be prosecutable. Of course, in the Commission it has been said: one of the many Italian bodies will be able to make the complaint, then, in court, it will possibly be the magistrate who will determine whether what has been said is punished by the law, given that we are talking about ethnic cleansing, racism or propaganda the denial of a fact. But is this possible? I would also ask you to understand - and we have tabled another amendment to that effect - why the negation is criminally punished as aggravating, whereas the exaltation of the same fact is not. If I deny it, there is aggression, while I exalt it, saying that they have done well, the aggression is not there. Can you explain to me the logic with which we are moving, with respect to all these cases? President Zanda says to close the process of the measure. For two years we have been saying that we must close the debate, through a debate that has also involved other countries. The problem with France and Turkey is very concrete: France has ruled by law that the Armenian people's genocide was a genocide; Turkey, by law, sends to jail those who say that the Armenian people's genocide was a genocide. It is a concrete case of genocide on which two countries have clashed: it is a great international problem and there is a great debate. Can Turkey enter Europe if it denies what has happened? But if these fundamental things, such as the holocaust and genocide, are watered down in tens of thousands of cases, each of which becomes the subject of the law under consideration, and if we write that one who propaganda these things can also be condemned to six years in prison, if propaganda spreads it, then, Mr President, I believe that there is also a question of the dignity of the Senate. In the previous reading, the Senate approved a formula that had agreed almost everyone; not me, but almost everyone. Personally, I have always been a friend of Israel and I said yesterday - and I repeat today - that in these norms I see the real possibility that the only victim of this legislation is Israel and the Jewish people, with the interpretation that will be given to the text as we have written it. The Senate had found legally satisfactory formulas, but now we think we approve a rule that is subject not to criticism, but to ridicule, because this story of propaganda that becomes a crime if it is diffused is something from Totò. I'm sorry, but it's a nonsense. We'll get to talk about this stuff at Crozza's. So, Mr Zanda, I would say that it would be wise to do exactly the opposite: being the sensitive issue and since there was an agreement, we should return to the Commission to find an agreement and bring to the House a text that is not so divisive. But those who divide are not the ones who worked in the Commission, they are not the members of the Commission! Someone said that with the rule passed almost unanimously by the Senate, last time, dozens of trials are cancelled, I ask you: but what trials are we talking about? What trials are currently under way for the violation of the Mancino law? Where are the dozens of trials and people who should get away with violating the Mancino law? Where are they? We ask the Office for Studies to do a reconnaissance: is there any ongoing trial in Italy? Is it true that, as the President of the Senate Justice Commission wrote, with the text we had written, we would have saved dozens of people from just punishment? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Perhaps he refers to the President of the Justice Commission of the House of Deputies. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Yes, Madam President, to the President of the Justice Commission of the House, of course. A very heavy criticism has been publicly expressed to the senators, who would have gone to great lengths to remove, within the trials, the right sentence to those who had violated the Mancino law and this morning no one is able to tell if there is a person who is under trial today. On the other hand, if we approve this text, we are going to run the risk of putting dozens of people on trial who simply exercise their right to promote ideas. Of course, to spread them, I say for the umpteenth time. President Zanda, it's noon, shall we continue? We continue, but we cannot deny the tabling of amendments such as, for example, the amendment that says: we limit these sanctions to the holocaust and genocide, we throw away war crimes, because I do not feel it morally, culturally and politically to endorse that the killing of houses during a war operation has the same penalty, in the cases we have indicated, as the holocaust. How can we put humanity's greatest tragedy on the same footing with a thousand other cases? I believe that going back to the Commission, revising the measure and bringing back a unitary text is the wisest thing we can do, even if we are not in contradiction with ourselves, with a Senate that had unanimously voted on a text a few months ago that is now being turned upside down.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u44	Madam President, sub-amendment 1,401/12 aims to remove the adjective "concrete" (I would also like to know what is a non-concrete danger). The amendment seeks to make the text more streamlined because, in my opinion, it is a completely superfluous adjective, which could be removed. I would also like to point out that danger and practicality will certainly be assessed by the judge in his discretion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u45	Madam President, Amendment 1,401/14 would reduce the application of these rules to the only ones for which these rules were born, were conceived and hypothesized and, that is, the Shoa. This is done by reference to international standards, and this would, among other things, reduce all the problems mentioned, related to the text as amended by President D'Ascola's amendment 1,402. I would like to take this opportunity to say what I had already asked to say in general debate on the amendments to Article 1. I agree with what has been said that a draft law, which starts as the initiative of the various groups already in the last parliamentary term and which should see and aspire to see the harmony of all the groups, is completely changed by an amendment that excludes all the others, an amendment that is agreed between whom, but certainly with none of my group, does not seem to me a good way to conduct things. I find it wrong and unproductive to want to reduce this issue also to the usual majority-opposition duel. I therefore hope that the work we are going to do now will, in some way, remedy it. I would also like to stress an amendment, in addition to those tabled by my group's colleagues, which I fully support. I am referring to Amendment No 1,401/12, which proposes replacing the words: 'that they derive from them' to the words: 'that they derive from them'. Indeed, the verb to derive is intransigent, so this amendment, tabled by Senators Baptist and Orellana, seems very appropriate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u46	The remaining sub-amendments are described.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u49	Comrade (CoR). Madam President, as a signatory to the amendments, I would like to speak. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Compañera, you're an underwriter with Senator Giovanardi. Senator Giovanardi has already spoken and a single intervention is allowed in the illustration of the amendments. Comrade (CoR). I shall then ask you to speak in an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u50	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and sub-amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u51	I am in favour of Amendment No 1,401. I make a call for withdrawal, otherwise I am against all the remaining amendments and sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u52	Madam President, allow me to make a brief reply, which I had reserved for myself after the explanations of the amendments and sub-amendments. It is a provision that comes to the Senate in third reading and that has seen two different proposals of intervention, I would say opposite, between the House and the Senate. In the Committee on Justice, during this third reading, we wondered whether there was the possibility of identifying an area of intervention that was a median between what was identified in the House and what was identified in the Senate. The Government had returned to the Commission and had hoped for further reflection, which came to this House with the proposal of Senator D'Ascola, on which the Government expressed a favourable opinion. In the Commission and then again here in the House, Senator Caliendo in particular and in this Chamber today, with great punctuality, Senator Nitto Palma has also put another issue, which, however, is outside the strict content of this legislative intervention: the harmonization of penalties on incitement offences. The Government gathers this invitation for reflection and declares itself willing to deepen this topic. With regard to the specific proposal, it considers that the solution identified is a good compromise solution. I therefore support Senator D'Ascola's amendment 1,401 and call for withdrawal or vote against the remaining sub-amendments and amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u53	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,400. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u56	Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I thought there was no need to bother Voltaire to say that this is a profoundly wrong bill. However, after listening to Senator Zanda, and above all after listening to the compromise on the compromise of the compromise that was proposed to us by the Undersecretary Chiavaroli [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Giovanardi]] I think Voltaire is absolutely needed. Like all wrong laws, this provision also risks, among other things, producing effects absolutely opposed to those it aims to: Popper would call them intentional consequences. And since it is precisely to the most just of the battles of merit that one becomes more wrong if one fights them with a wrong method, I would like us to try to separate the plans. That is why I say that it is all the more a duty to oppose this bill, and to ask for it to be completely suppressed, the more ignoble and aberrant are the theories that are intended to be outlawed. On this my opinion is even more extreme than that of my colleague Giovanardi: as far as I am concerned there is not even a distinction between the Shoah and the other cases. In short, I would like to point out - in order to avoid any doubt at first - that I believe the negationist thesis, that on the non-existence of the Shoah, abject, ridiculous and unsustainable on the ground of logical-historical confrontation. Those who make themselves bearers of it are objectively on the wrong side. However, putting opinions out of the law is not the right way to counter bad thoughts; indeed, the opposite is true. Beyond the contradictions and apories inherent in the text under discussion, which is grafted on a law that would itself be to be reconsidered, the Mancino law; beyond the ballet on a change that would at least have cushioned the risks; beyond the vagueness of a formulation that, referring generically to genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity, would invest not only the historiography but also the debate on the current geopolitics, given the complexity and sometimes the schizophrenia of the international dispute in this matter; beyond all these specific reasons, there are in my opinion, Mr President, fundamental reasons for opposing this bill. First of all, an opposition in principle to the crime of opinion, even the most aberrant opinion, as in this case. Opinion is never a crime. And history teaches us that countering bad thoughts by compressing freedom is the best way to feed them. Different is the case of defamation; different, of course, is the case from incitement to criminals or to commit concrete acts of discrimination for racial, civil, national or religious reasons. But here we are in other areas of criminal law that it would be good not to confuse with the sphere of opinion, that I believe the criminal right should remain totally foreign. Opinions are fought with other opinions; they are fought in classrooms of schools, universities, not in courtrooms. They are fought with words, with the means of spreading them; they are fought with culture, with example, with memory and with education. They don't fight in jail, ever. Secondly, in the meshes of rules of this type, subject to wide interpretative discretion, the best intentions of the legislator could have different consequences, such as the outlawing not only of the public confrontation on very controversial issues of our current affairs, but also of pages of cultural and historiographical debate on fringes of history not only Italian. For example, on Stalinism there are opinions that remove or even justify the genocide and crimes against humanity perpetrated by the communist regime: I have read those pages in the history manuals and I do not share them, but I would never want them to be catalogued as a crime. Finally - and this is a subject which as legislators directly challenges us - I believe that the draft law under consideration is based on a more general tendency to believe that all the evils of society can be solved by means of the criminal instrument. This is not the case and, in doing so, we are progressively distorting the very nature of criminal law. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I find it very disturbing that the legislator is taking less and less account of the principle of the taxableness of the incriminating rules arising from our constitutional system. And I challenge anyone to prove what is imperative in the measure under consideration that, in effect, it is a flag law, destined at best to remain unenforced and, at worst, to produce absurdity. If everything is criminal, in the end nothing will be criminal. It is difficult to demand more sentences in faster times and more precise and specific accusations if we continue to produce rules from whose interpretation we can derive everything and the opposite of everything and to devolve to criminal justice from self-certification for the Rai canon to opinions, to get high, on history and on current affairs. Madam President, we are not mad at the magistrates if we produce laws of this kind. In a House in which everyone says they are liberal, it is perhaps good that an opinion like this, albeit a minority opinion and even though this amendment is intended to be defeated, enters and makes itself heard. [[Applause from the LAG groups (GS, PpI, M, Id, E-E, MPL), FI-PdL XVII and CoR.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u59	Comrade (CoR). Madam President, the Conservative and Reformist Group will certainly vote in favour of the amendment, for which it appreciates the reasons. However, I would like to point out, on the basis of what the exponent of the Government has said, that there is an unpleasant and uncomfortable lack of respect for our Group in the last forty-eight hours in the Senate. Everyone (even the representative of the Government, who is the same) will remember that the day before yesterday, during the general discussion in which our Group had the honour and, if I may, the prestige to intervene, with Senator Liuzzi, expressing, as well as 80% of the other speakers, the greatest favour not only for the seriousness, Mr Zanda, but also for the honesty of intentions with which he had worked in the Commission. Everything focused on the merits of the term "publicly". On the other hand, I learned this morning from the representative of the Government that the Commission has flattened itself, evidently, not on the positions of the debate in which it had participated in the Senate, but on an interview with the President of the Justice Commission of the Chamber of Deputies, and thought it was necessary to find a mediation between the public mediation that the House had not included and the publicly-introduced by the Senate Commission, and that it should be found in the Commission. Very well, but the representative of the Government was present as I was when the proposal to return to the Commission was rejected by the Assembly. For this measure, I would like to ask how it is then possible that the only representative of my Group in the Committee on Justice, who, among other things, had spoken as far as possible in favour of the rule, Senator Liuzzi, as a member of Commission 7a and not of the Commission on Justice, was not notified at all. Less has been warned - and I cannot believe his lack of good faith - of the old friend Tito Di Maggio, a member of the Justice Commission, that Mr D'Ascola did not feel his duty to inform himself of this amendment. I feel the same way about Senator Stefani. Here, then, is what I wanted to say first about the order of business: this is not the first time this has happened. I respect the demands for unity of a group, of a party, of a majority, but these do not remove, at least in terms of information, the prerogatives of the Assembly. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi]] That is why, Senator Zanda, you cannot call obstructionism the fact that, when we heard about the amendment this morning - I happened to know it, meeting my colleague Amati at 9.25 a.m., who politely showed me the text of Senator D'Ascola - a debate reopened. But let's be serious! Some of my colleagues have proposed a sub-amendment, rather than being in real danger only in danger. I do not doubt that Senator D'Ascola is a great compiler and I do not say it in the denigratory sense to which perhaps he alluded to Palma; but if, if there had never been a public publication and we had started from the formulation "propaganda" with concrete danger of diffusion, probably a minimum of parliamentary discussion would have led us to the "publicly". The truth is that in this provision there are many, many hypocrisies; not ours and none of our Group and if my colleague Zanda would invite us, together with Caliendo, to his home, be sure that none of us will say blasphemy about the non-existence of the Shoah. But the use of international jurisdiction to delegitimize the State of Israel is a political movement: it is called BDS, it operates in Geneva and the United Nations, maybe it is an old idea of an old United Nations Secretary, Waldheim (the name should say something). These are the reasons why we have a great deal of difficulty not voting for the amendments. The vote on the measure will be taken in the final explanation of vote. However, we regret, Senator Zanda, that great country, the United States of America, where approving a law against freedom of opinion not only precludes the well-calibrated voltarisms of his friend Quagliariello, but is a guarantee of inconstitutionality in itself. On the other hand, here we have replaced the public gymnastics with a lexical gymnastics - am I right, Mr Palma? - derived from a previous judgment of the Constitutional Court. Hence our vote in favour of the amendment. [[Applause from the CoR, LAG (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL) and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u62	D'ANNA (AL-A (MpA)). Madam President, I do not know what my Group's orientation will be, but on these issues which are of invaluable value and which concern the freedom of expression and opinion of a nation, I believe that there can be no constraints of any kind. I fully endorse what Senator Quagliariello has just said in this House and, if I may, I would like to subscribe to his amendment, adding only one consideration. If we had done, instead of this liberticidal reproach, a law in which the Minister of Education, University and Research had made obligatory the reading of Anna Frank's Diary, we would have propaganda, in the noblest sense of the word, those ideas and events which, by themselves, as a cultural fact, would have been the first deterrent against the propalation or the support of strange ideas. Senator Quagliariello is right, because in a rule of law, in a free state, Voltaire's maximum is worth: "Lords, I do not agree with what you say at all, but I would give my life so that you may continue to say so." This law is of no use but to put a further lump in the hands of the only power that exists in Italy inconferent and irresponsible, the power of the judiciary, while the parliamentary legislative political power is now succubus and prono. [[Applause from Senators D'Alì, Giovanardi, Perrone and Ruvolo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u63	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,400, tabled by Senator Quagliariello and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,401/1, which is essentially the same as Amendment No 1,401/2.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u66	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Senator Zanda, until, due to a deniable hypothesis, the Italian people do not make the constitutional reform effective with the referendum and until there is a new legislature with Italicum, this is still called Parliament and not "zitment." CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Bravo! PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). With the consequence, Senator Zanda, that you and your colleagues must use the patience to listen to us; and speaking is not always inspired by obstructive purposes. Senator Zanda, I am pleased to note that it is not your custom to adapt to the wishes of the stone conviviates; I did not say so, and I remind you of the saying on the excusatio non petita. Surely, as you accused me, it is not my costume to follow the Diktats of the stone conviviates: if I have a defect, it is to do everything I think I have to do with my face open. Senators, the speech is very simple and I would like to ask you for a moment's attention. Article 3 of the so-called Royal Law (a) states that for the part that is concerned here, it is punished with imprisonment up to a year to six months or with a fine of up to 6,000 euros who instigates to commit acts of discrimination for racial, ethnic, national or religious reasons. Which is to say that if I instigated Senator Caliendo to kill Senator Malan I would not incur any pain if Senator Caliendo, evidently, had the goodness of not accepting the incitement. This is because our penal code, in Article 115, prevents the punishable incitement not accepted. But if I say to Senator Caliendo, you kill Senator Malan, because he is of Waldensian religion, in this case I would be punished with a sentence of up to a year and six months, not because I instigated murder, but because I instigated at the most of the act of discrimination against Senator Malan, not as Senator, but as a Waldensian religion. That is the point we are debating. It can be said that incitement must have connotations in order to be appreciated criminally: it cannot be just a saying between two people, even if incitement is usually the act that one performs towards another person. However, at a time when, as in Senator D'Ascola's amendment 1,401, we see that in paragraph 3-a, criminality is conditioned by the fact that the incitement is such as to cause a real danger, automatically for the hypotheses referred to in points (a) and (b), the cause of the real danger is no longer required, therefore a mere incitement is sufficient, the mere verbal fact to invite to carry out any kind of act of discrimination against a person, because of different religion, different ethnicity, different color and anything else, in order to have a punishableness. I mean that a fact that is absolutely internal to the private sphere, which in itself does not have criminal significance for all crimes even the most serious, would be of importance. You understand that from the Royal Law to today times have changed, the climate is different and those who talk about ongoing processes, beyond the affirmation can not indicate any of them. Moreover, even if there was a trial going on because privately, in a living room, Guy invited Caio to commit an act of discrimination, would you find that right, in the light of the fact that similar behavior against a crime of murder or terrorism does not provide for any criminality, when the incitement is not committed publicly? For this reason we had inserted the term "publicly" which we ask to insert again in order to try to limit the criminal apprehensibility to the facts that really deserve it, in order to try to make this norm in tune with the system that, I repeat, does not punish the mere incitement if not accepted. I talked about a stone party. I'm not afraid. Why did Mr Ferranti not say the same thing when this measure came to the House? Why, when he came to the House, did he not change the term 'publicly' in the Commission? Was there not at the time the danger that so many criminal proceedings would fail? Let's face it. Is it a personalistic discourse to make one's opinion prevail over others? If so, does Mr Ferranti know that the Senate still exists and has not been abolished? How will colleagues from the Democratic Party's Justice Commission today, who have enthusiastically voted for the inclusion of the term "publicly" on an amendment tabled by the rapporteur, change their minds? Making the simple, unaccepted and non-public incitement punishable in points (a) and (b) means changing your mind and doing the exact opposite of what you did in the Commission. Of course you can, but then, Senator Zanda, perhaps it will not be his custom to follow the Diktats of the stone feast, but, if we were to attend something like this, it will be - alas - the costume of members of his party. I'd like to say one more thing. The Constitution assigns full legislative autonomy to the two Houses, which is equivalent to saying that no interference from one House to another is allowed in terms of institutional grace. I find it absolutely serious that the President of the Justice Commission of the House, apart from the tones used against that gentleman of Senator Caliendo, was able to make the intervention that he carried out, stating without data of fact that the insertion of the term "publicly" caused a series of trials to fail and was inspired by who knows as a hidden and unspeakable reason. Try to understand that criminal law anchors itself to personal freedom. Try to understand the simplest thing in this world: justice doesn't always knock at the neighbor's door, but it can come knocking at your house, and when it knocks - if it knocks - at your home (I don't hope so), you will realize the failures you are combining with standards of this kind. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Crosio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u69	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am speaking in a statement on sub-amendment 1,401/2. As I said earlier in my speech, I believe that we must examine and take into account what - as I mentioned earlier - was a decision taken by the Commission by a very large majority. We believe, also for the reasons expressed by the illustrious colleagues, much more prepared than I, also from the legal point of view, that the inclusion of an adverb as "publicly" in point (a), therefore in the case of propaganda, can be a way to rebalance the scope of a rule that already in itself raises doubts that had led to the raising of exceptions of unconstitutionality. We believe that, in order for an offence to be envisaged, there must still be a danger in the conduct, otherwise we would not understand how to protect the interest and the good underlying that rule. We do not believe that any hypothesis should be found, which could possibly become the case of crimes of opinion, if they are not actually suitable to produce a negative event, regardless of the possible legal classification between offences of concrete or abstract danger. In the present case, we believe that this fact can actually be useful, appropriate and necessary for us to discuss a rule that - we repeat - is already complex in itself, but that in this way we were able to settle.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u72	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, it is clear that at this point we will try, as far as possible, to perform a function of reducing the damage respect - Senator Zanda, allow me, we are in the Senate - to the shame that this Senate is doing, with the fact that it is the second or the third time that it denies itself. In fact, if the Senate does not pass this sub-amendment, as happened already with the road murder, the Senate will vote against its resolution, adopted in the Assembly after a close debate, on issues that had found unanimity. Today, if this sub-amendment on the adverb is rejected, it is the Senate that takes back its own statements, so it denies, since we are on the subject of negationism, an action that had convincedly led to limit the possibility of the crime. But why is it a shame? The Holocaust has rightly been mentioned, but I would like to read to you a case that the Senate of the Republic equals the Holocaust of the Jewish people and would, in the event of war, deliberately direct attacks against civil property, i.e. property that are not military targets. I'm upset. The Holocaust of six million people is equal to the case of those at war who strike a single private property, which is war crime on the basis of Article 8 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court that we call back. We attribute the prison sentence up to six years to those who deny the Holocaust and attribute the same penalty to those who deny that in a particular case an army has with the Russians removed some houses. It may be objected, however, that there must be ethical and racial issues. Exactly, as I've shown you: Sovereign states such as Iran, representatives of the United Nations and international bodies have declared that the State of Israel is racist and that it does ethnic cleansing. Therefore, this particular case which we refer to is part of a discourse in which these actions, if denied, fall within the specified criminal case, which must not even happen publicly anymore. We are liberal people, but I did not understand the votes of some groups before. Someone will explain to me how to pass a law - if it passes - which says that one can propaganda an idea as long as there is no real danger of spreading. I propagate an opinion, but there's an addict if propaganda spreads my idea. One thing is the incitement, to which more colleagues have rightly referred, but we are not only striking the incitement, but the propaganda of ideas, which can also be contained in an article. I first recalled the whole open question of our colonialism from Giolitti. Wasn't fascist Italy the one who intervened in Libya and was surely guilty of crimes, but can we defend the Italian politics of that time, which was probably all based on the conception of an ethnic supremacy? Unfortunately, this was the story of the Risorgimento. Even the Piedmontese thought of the southern as a lower ethnicity; they said it and wrote it, but - lively - if Del Boca or Montanelli is right history will determine it and not the judges with their sentences. It is the least that can be done to make sense of this rule. We shall therefore vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u73	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,401/1, tabled by Senators Palma and Caliendo, essentially identical to amendment 1,401/2, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u74	We greet the students and the teachers of the Liceo delle scienze umani (Liceo delle scienze umani) in Pozzuoli, in the Metropolitan City of Naples. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u75	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,401/3.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u78	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I'm sure Senator Zanda will be patient for my new speech. I wanted to clarify something. Senator Compañera, when I used the adjective "compilative," I had no intention of denigrating those who had tabled that amendment. So, for the future, I'd be grateful if you didn't follow the inputs of the well-known Enzo Jannacci, who in one of his songs said: Those who explain your ideas to you without making them understand, oh yeah! There was no derogatory intent. I note, on the basis of the Secretary's words, that the indication 'in such a way that there is a real danger' is a median solution. To tell you the truth, Mr. Undersecretary, this is not a median solution. I have already mentioned the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 1970, in which it is basically said that public incitement can be punished, provided that it is such that it poses a real danger. So we are saying, in a different way, the exact same thing. Anyway, that's fine with me. Let's say it's a median solution. By virtue of this median solution, those who instigate, based on the Shoah, to carry out acts of discrimination or anything else, in order to cause danger, are punished from two to six years. Why can't a similar median solution also be chosen for incitement in the other two basic assumptions of crime? Why should the other two basic hypotheses of crime be punished for incitement tout court, even without any capacity to create a real danger of diffusion? Because I would like to understand this from you! We therefore have various types of incitement in our system: an incitement not punishable, pursuant to Article 115 of the Criminal Code, an incitement punishable, pursuant to Article 3 of the Royal Law, an incitement punishable only on condition that it is dangerous, pursuant to paragraph 3-a of the Royal Law, as desired by Senator D'Ascola. Do you realize that doesn't make sense? Senator Malan will excuse me if I always refer to his person, but what is the point of predicting that, if I instigate Senator Caliendo to commit an act of discrimination against Senator Malan, of Waldensian religion, I am punished even if this incitement is not such as to cause any danger? If it is a median solution, Mr Undersecretary, if it is a common sense solution - and we have already said that it is not, but should it ever be - then it would not be equally median and of common sense to include in the other two basic hypotheses of crime this postilla, this qualification of incitement, that is to say, by providing in this case too that it is carried out in such a way as to cause real danger or, if you want, in such a way as to cause danger, then speaking of danger, with wide discretion on the part of the judge? As you can allow the continued existence of a rule, which confers criminal appreciation, even in heavy terms, up to four years, as stated in letter b), when that incitement remains a fact absolutely limited to the private or, in its maximum hypothesis, simply to two persons. I believe that this is, so to speak, an amendment of common sense, bearing in mind that the criminal penalty is going to compress the personal freedom of the subjects and that, in order to compress the personal freedom of the citizens, perhaps it would be necessary for the facts to really have their own damage. I am referring to the citizens, those citizens to whom the Five Star Movement is often referred. Do you not realize, you who made so much opposition to words towards the Democratic Party, that with your positive vote on standards of this kind do nothing but bring water to the Democratic Party mill? If you think that incitement without the connotations of danger should be punishable, I would ask you to vote on my next amendment, which removes this element of popularity and danger from the D'Ascola amendment. If the incitement is to be punished, in such cases, always and in any case, it is removed as well, as provided for in that amendment, and any incitement, whatever it is, of a private type, whether or not based on the Shoah or on the denial of war crimes, in order to allow a uniqueness of treatment to the different citizens in relation to conduct that is considered to be criminally appreciable. How can you not be aware that the aggravating circumstance increases the sanction with reference to a circumstance that aggravates the basic fact, not modifying the basic fact, not modifying the simple incitement in an incitement that creates concrete danger? But when we arrive at that amendment, I will kindly and again address the invitation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u81	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I see that Mr Palma, quite rightly, is concerned about restricting the incitement in such a way that it should take place publicly and that it is not considered to be an incitement even a conversation between two people, that is, a private fact. I am concerned about this and will vote in favour of the amendment. But I am more concerned about the fact that the idea, which is not an incitement, is criminally affected by an assault. We are in Parliament and I express my views. I am not surprised that, from a sector that has a totalitarian and anti-democratic history behind, such proposals come, because this is in tune with a certain history; obviously the years pass, but the idiosyncrasia for freedom and for the opinions of others remains, only that, once, it applied with the tragedies of history, now it applies with jokes that perhaps would be good for Checco Zalone. Now, because many people listen to us (it is not true that Parliament's work is not followed) and because, when we return home, we will have to explain what changes we have made to the penal code, in an understandable way, so that any person and any citizen can understand when he risks six years in jail, I repeat what we are about to vote on and that we try to amend: The sentence of imprisonment from two to six years applies if propaganda, i.e. incitement and incitement, is committed in such a way that there is a real danger of spreading it. Understood? Propaganding an idea, according to the vocabulary, means carrying out a spreading or apostolate activity. Is it called tautology? I think so. So, if a propaganda idea, it certainly commits crime if there is a real danger of spreading that idea. But it is clear that if I write an article and want to promote an idea, with whom do I propagate it? If I want to promote an idea, to whom do I propagate it, to myself? I can stand in front of the mirror and talk to myself, like the former Soviet dissidents (even though this idea was written, for example in a poem, and they had it circulated underground in a circle of intellectuals, there was already an anti-socialist activity). So, if I propagate my ideas in an article or in a book, in which context the historical reconstruction of the thousands of episodes that you want to translate into a crime, and if I publish this book, is there a real danger of spreading? Come on! The ideas that are written are subject to a real danger of dissemination. It is not necessary for me to spread them; the mere fact that I publish them or write an article costs me up to six years in prison. People who listen to us from home, the things I said before and that I say now no one disputes them. No one explains why this shame of comparing the Holocaust to other thousands of cases, some of which are bagattellars compared to that tragic historical experience. If I read to you the things I read to you - I suggest Checco Zalone take them back as a gag of his show - can anyone tell me that they are not written like this? Silence, because you cannot deny it; it is in the record: it is the things that someone, in the night, wrote, climbing over the entire Commission and causing the whole House to find in a great embarrassment. In fact, those who have some experience in Parliament understand very well that the things that are being said are so obvious that I see the suffering in the faces of colleagues, especially after the uncriteriad intervention of the representative of the Government, who came on foot to give a favourable opinion when in the Commission, on the other hand, she had never even dreamed of proposing such solutions. This is also a strange Government-Parliament relationship. On civil unions they turned to the Commission saying that the Government did not want to know; the Government was returning to the Assembly; then it put confidence in its own text. In this case the Government has never intervened - indeed, with silence it has endorsed the solution that was taken essentially unanimously by the Commission, with some dissent, including mine - and this morning the Undersecretary gives a favourable opinion to the night amendment, that of Checco Zalone: congratulations to the Government! Do you think the parliamentary institution can have credibility? No one responds, not to Giovanardi but to Nitto Palma, who was President of the Justice Commission until a few weeks ago; he has been a magistrate, and when he poses systematic problems of the penal code, I am surprised at your sovereign indifference. Of course, so much will the citizens end up on trial; what do you care about? Until it's up to any of you. Yet, I have seen so many colleagues, when they have found themselves within such mechanisms, start thinking in terms of wrong legislation. We shall therefore vote in favour of this amendment, again insisting that it is not decisive - because it does not solve the problem of ideas - but at least makes it clear that an incitement to be hit so hard at least must take place in a public way.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u84	FALANGA (AL-A (MpA)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we have come across a false problem this morning. It is true that the House's attitude in eliminating the adverb is, in my opinion, an act of ill-bearable institutional stumpiness, especially when it comes, not from a mere Member, but from those who have the responsibility to govern the Chamber's Justice Commission, is, in my view, an act of public distraction - after perhaps unanimously voted here in the Senate, or even with the Government's favourable opinion. Why do I say it's a fake problem? Because the meaning of the expression "publicly" indicates to us the penal code in Article 266, when it expressly says that, for the purposes of criminal law, the offence is deemed to have occurred publicly when the fact is committed in a public place or open to the public and in the presence of more than one person (it is clear that, according to the case law, "more persons" means a minimum number of two persons), and still "in a meeting which, for the place where it is held, or for the number of persons involved, or for the purpose or object of it, has a non-private meeting". Now, if "publicly" means this, at a time when Senator D'Ascola, President of the Justice Commission of this Senate, with his own amendment he says, "that is, the incitement and the incitement committed in such a way that there is a real danger of spreading," it is clear that this danger of spreading must be compared to the "publicly." That is why I say that there is essentially no difference. It is only a way of clarifying and - alas, what they think of the House - for better and even further reaffirming our need for incitement to take place publicly, or even only in such a way that there is a real danger of spreading. It is evident the example that Senator Giovanardi made: at the moment when I publish a thesis and spread it, it is clear that that concrete danger of diffusion has been realized. I listened to Senator Palma's valuable remarks regarding points (a) and (b) when he asked how it was possible to distinguish between incitement and committing a different crime. Very quietly, I would like to point out that Article 414 of the Criminal Code clearly already considers public incitement and punishes it with a severe sanction. Gentlemen, I hear that we are really faced with an ephemeral problem. I appreciated Senator D'Ascola's effort in imagining a solution that, if I may, I would define a bit like Colombo's egg: it changes the words, it changes the expression, but the objective and the prediction of punishableness remain the same. Soon, in the explanation of vote, I will not fail to be even more critical than those who feel that they are conditioned, even by exercising their role of responsibility of a Commission, the whole of Parliament in relation to their own will. This morning, however, let us not be overcome by provocations, which, moreover, only mean institutional arrogance. Unless someone thinks otherwise, I therefore announce that my Group will vote in favour of Senator D'Ascola's amendment 1.401. Since it is a politically so delicate subject, which belongs a little to our history, I believe that everyone is left with the sensitivity to decide on the basis of their own conscience, their own history and their own considerations that can be made on the subject, and there are many.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u85	We welcome the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Taiwan, Mr Chen-jian Lee, and his delegation, who are visiting the Senate today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u86	We shall proceed to the vote. [[Senator Comrade is nodding his desire to intervene.]] For what, Senator Comrade? Comrade (CoR). For an explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi has already intervened. Comrade (CoR). I am part of another group, the Conservatives and Reformists Group. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, Senator Comrade, it is my mistake because there is some mobility. Please, you have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u87	Sorry, Madam President, there is a contiguity of position, if there is a contiguity of arguments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u88	The physical contiguity and the sharing of positions have led me into error.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u89	Comrade (CoR). Madam President, the Conservative and Reformist Group will also vote in favour of the amending proposal tabled by Senator Palma, to whom - incidentally - I apologise for the inappropriate adjective "denigratory" used in my previous speech, for which I am all the more sorry to President D'Ascola. Why do we vote in favour? Here, as is the case physiologically in Parliament's debates when we are examining sub-amendments, we are pursuing the effect of reducing damage from the point of view of the consistency of the criminal system of our system. I am pleased that Mr Falanga, an experienced lawyer, took this aspect before me. When the government announced to us that the Senate's renunciation of the Senate was a median solution between the House and the Senate did not convince us; first, because a median solution cannot ignore the debate that had taken place in the Assembly. There was not a single intervention, a single mention of the inopportunity of the public. But a median solution even less can be the one that brings back, then, the judgment of criminal appreciation of a behavior to the most random circumstances. From this point of view, the reasons why Senator Palma's text must be supported are easy to understand, for us who will probably vote against President D'Ascola's amendment; but it is strange and mysterious enough that there are no reasons for the sub-amendment by those who, on the other hand, do not exclude voting in favour of the D'Ascola amendment. This is surprising, but it does not lead us to a vote other than the vote in favour of amendment 1,401/3.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u92	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, since I am curious to know who opposes and who does not, I would ask for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since the vote by electronic ballot has been requested on the whole article, the quorum occurs automatically with the vote. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). That's new.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u93	It's not new: verification of the quorum precedes votes by show of hands. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,401/3, tabled by Senators Palma and Caliendo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,401/4.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u96	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I believe that... I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fattori, Senator Palma is speaking. Please, Senator Palma, I gave you the floor. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, Madam President, it was a matter of courtesy to a colleague. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, but the presidency decides. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I have to say the truth: I believe that Senator Falanga was wrong in voting earlier because he voted against the sub-amendment after developing a reasoning - if I did not misunderstand it - all in his favour. What does Senator Falanga say? He says the problem that arises is a false problem. It is clear, in fact, that incitement must cause danger and then adds that incitement can only be public, because this is what Article 414 of the Criminal Code states. I absolutely agree with Senator Falanga: the incitement, to be appreciated criminally, cannot be an incitement not accepted or committed only in private. I agree exactly with you, Senator Falanga, and that is exactly what we want. We want to clarify to the letters of reference what the rapporteur and the President intended to clarify to the third paragraph: that the incitement of the basic hypotheses is also a criminally appreciable and therefore either committed publicly or, if you want, in the phantom midway hypothesis, committed in such a way as to cause the danger of spread concretely. We're not asking for anything else. However, I have one problem: if you were to vote against this amendment and mainly against the following one, which repeats for point (b) the same formula as President D'Ascola indicated in his amendment, you would find yourself for the hypothesis pointed out by Senator D'Ascola in the face of another type of crime, because it would change the case. I want to say that for the basic hypothesis is enough an incitement any: for example if I say "Caliendo, make an act of discrimination against the Waldensian Malan". Instead, for the hypothesis of Senator D'Ascola, this incitement must be such as to cause a real danger. So we are faced with a completely different case. You will continue to vote against these amendments, but you will allow us to continue to support our views. Of course, what I know is that, in the light of the text, as it will be after this vote, there will be ample matter for the Constitutional Court to intervene on. There is only one way out of salvation: because the trials for these facts do not exist and most likely will not exist, there will be no way and reason to affect the Constitutional Court. But if they do not exist and they will not exist, why does Mr Ferranti say that the inclusion of the term publicly or in the same way does not mean that I do not know how many hundreds of trials? If they don't exist, they don't exist. So you guys are gonna do an operation in honor of the real boss, but you're gonna do a technical operation that's totally wrong.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u99	FACTORS (M5S). Madam President, I would like to thank Senator Palma for his kindness. I speak to correct my previous vote, because I mistakenly voted in favour, and my vote was against.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u102	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I see that Mr Palma rightly insists that the effects of this rule should be clearly limited. Among other things, I am also making a check on the so-called Severino law in relation to non-polluting crimes, because I would not like a Member convicted of one of these events to be found falling from the office of parliamentarians, since things are related to freedom of opinion. It is a test that I am doing so I am not yet able to confirm, but it is better to be careful when it comes to freedom of speech. I wanted to look into the combined arrangement again, because I also say to my colleagues who have followed the issue in the Commission that it is not enough to have the text of the law approved in the Commission to understand what we are doing. The law passed in the Commission refers to the Law of 13 October 1975, No 654, points (a) and (b), which you do not find in the text. As usual, in Italy a person to understand on what basis it can be incriminated, it is not enough for him to read the law, but he must read the original norm and then try to make the connection between what is provided for in the original norm and the aggression provided for in our case by the bill under consideration. What does the original law say in letter a)? That is punished with imprisonment up to a year and six months who propaganda ideas based on superiority or racial and ethnic hatred. We are not incited: we are talking about propaganda and ideas. Let's check the dictionary. What is propaganda? It is the diffusion, dissemination, propagation, proselytism the apostolate of ideas. When we talk about propaganda of ideas, it is clear that there is diffusion within propaganda, it is not that there is the real danger of spreading propaganda: it is in re ipsa. What was written on the text is something that is neither in heaven nor on earth. But you will pay attention to the six years of condemnation you take if you call questions that have to do with ethnic and racial issues. I have seen that there will be amendments by colleagues from the 5 Star Movement (I do not know if they will remain) who want to link, as the House had done, also the condemnation not to the international courts, but also to take positions of international bodies. You see - it is in English but also in Italian - that UN expert Richard Falk, in a press conference, condemned Israel's practices on occupied Palestinian lands, accusing him of complicity in racial segregation and ethnic cleansing. Was he a street passer? No, he was appointed rapporteur on these issues by the UN commission. There is an authoritative UN lord who claims that Israel is guilty of racial segregation and ethnic cleansing. We have written, President Zanda, referring to any episode related to war crimes, that is, those for which Israel is continuously accused and condemned not by the first passing on the street, but officially by governments such as Iranian. A prediction relates, in point (a), to the Mancino law for the simple propaganda of ideas: we strike with penalties up to six years in prison those propaganda ideas that relate to ethnic and racial superiority, but representatives of the UN and entire states say that Israel commits ethnic cleansing and racial hatred just as it intervenes in the cases that they define war crimes. After that, more than Holocaust, dear Zanda! Our dear lawyer is right in recalling the interpretation of the cassation: when you go to court and you are denounced, you have to see if there were three, four, or five people in the bar, because if there were two you did not condemn, but if you come out the testimony that there were five people in the bar, the crime takes - attention - and is punished up to six years. In addition, if in the propaganda of ideas of this type, written in an article... SPOSETTI (PD). That's enough, ma'am. We can't do this anymore. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Spousetti, do not interrupt Senator Giovanardi who still has five minutes for his explanation of vote. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). I, too, say enough with this shit of right and with this shame. However, because obviously the arguments that are being brought (reasons that anyone can understand about this aberration) are not being heard, if you will recall that I am a Member of Parliament (a colleague said that we are in Parliament first) and these things remain in the act: in a few years someone will go to see them and maybe write books on how the Italian Parliament, with PD traction, has equalized the Holocaust to any fact, even a bagatellare, and has passed a law that affects opinions and ideas. He has also done so in a subtle way, not only because he must understand that when he commits the crime he must resort to the combined provisions of a law of 1975 with that passed yesterday, but because in the night the cards on the table have been changed, putting the Senate and the members of the Commission in front of a new text that greatly worsens the situation. Therefore, I would say that it is enough, we are going back to the Commission, because we are writing a rule that does not make sense. However, since this does not happen, it is clear that amendment by amendment it will be our duty to deepen and, if you like, repetita iuvant, to make it clear in silence. I understand Mr Falanga's generous attempt, but it was a procedural intervention. My colleague Mr Falanga spoke of the trial, of the things that happen in the trial between prosecution and defence; I would simply like to avoid that any Italian citizen, even a Member of Parliament, should go through the matter that I am verifying, may be indicted for an issue that is simply the expression of an idea about tens of thousands of cases taking place all over the world. I also see many historians present in the PD counter remain silent. How come historians have come to tell us in the Commission - read the minutes - that this is an attack on freedom of historical reconstruction? Among other things, most of them are part of the Jewish community and, therefore, should have been interested, but those historians stressed the danger of a text that, instead of stigmatizing the Holocaust, turns into a libertic act. For these reasons we shall be voting in favour of sub-amendment 1,401/4.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u103	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,401/4, tabled by Senators Palma and Caliendo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,401/5, which is essentially the same as Amendment No 1,401/6.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u106	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I do not return to what has already been said and what I said in my first speech, but it must be stressed that in the criminal system - take a penal code - there is no private incitement and in all the articles in which there is talk of incitement the adverb is repeated publicly. Do you realize that if we do not insert it, with the rejection of the previous sub-amendment, which, among other things, was identical to the amendment signed by President D'Ascola and would have allowed us to affirm the continuity of legislation, the rule contained in amendment 1,401 is no longer an aggravating one, but it becomes a different case? If you want to recover, then this is the only possibility we have, otherwise we will be faced with a measure of difficult and different application and with jurisprudential contrasts on the interpretation if Parliament wanted to introduce a new case of crime or an assault. We cannot make it clear that it is therefore a technical fact. Perhaps the government should have asked to return to the Commission to draw up a text with dignity in order to avoid legal disputes. Will you remember when we adopted the fake measure in the budget, when I said that assessments had to be introduced and you said no? The Cassation is due to intervene in united sections. We had judgments of the Supreme Court that they acquitted for the false evaluative and we had judgments of the Supreme Court that they condemned and it took a judgment of the United Chambers to arrive at the continuity of the law, simply because, even on that occasion, the majority wanted to vote for a matter of principle and not for the merit of the measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u109	Comrade (CoR). Madam President, we will also vote in favour of sub-amendment 1,401/5, because, precisely with the arguments that Senator Caliendo was referring to now, if we are to vote in favour of amendment 1,401, this sub-amendment by Caliendo, in absolute consistency with the previous one by Palma, is used to reduce the damage, to restore homogeneity, if not coherence, to our criminal law, or, from a constitutional point of view, to the assessment of what must be criminal and of what absolutely must not be criminal. That the discussion had this as a center we had warned him precisely on the occasion of the passage to the House. At that time there had been, on the part of well-deserved Members, an orgy of references to international jurisdictions. What does the reference to international jurisdiction mean? What's his target if not the usual, the same as on April 25th? The State of Israel, ontologically guilty of racism. Hence the need for a normative reference in the Italian law to refer the international jurisdiction. With deep credit to President D'Ascola and all those who worked in the Justice Commission, we had received a text that deleted these privileged lanes of anti-Semitism dictated by anti-Zionism. If I have the right to quote, it is that of a prestigious colleague, the life-senator Giorgio Napolitano. Putting that text back into play undisputedly, erasing the "publicly" creates a misunderstanding that the order will drag for a long time and affects the freedom of freedom: freedom of opinion. We shall vote in favour of sub-amendment 1,401/5, which is also reminiscent of an old line. Luigi Einaudi said that the best law on freedom of opinion is no freedom of opinion. It was a doubt to which we were willing to give up, but when we see that deviously, without even justifying it aloud in this House, the members of the other side of the hemicycle are wiped out the "publicly", our nostalgia for the "publicly" given forty-eight hours, but it is very strong. Hence the vote in favour of amendment 1,401/5. [[Applause from the CoR and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u112	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am speaking very briefly. I wanted to make an explanation of vote on Amendment No 1,401/5, as it is essentially the same as our next amendment. With this proposed amendment we wanted to influence the regulatory scope of the Mancino law. We are still firmly convinced that, although it is to be repudiated and to be considered shameful expressions with discriminatory content, aimed at seeking distinctions and to isolate, culture is a fundamental step in our country in order to be able to solve this problem. Only culture will be able to solve a problem that concerns discrimination in all respects. The need for a culture must not be the need to go to court. We believe that Amendments Nos 1,401/5 and 1,401/6, aimed at incorporating the engraving in public, rebalance the regulatory scope of the provisions of the Mancino law. The term "publicly" indicates the need for what is said to have a harmfulness and not for it to be simply the expression, albeit sad and despicable, of an opinion. For these reasons, we insist that the opinion given on the amendment be reviewed, since amendments of the same content have been passed in the Commission, which have led to a shared text. If we had come to this House with a shared text - I say this to the Government and to the whole majority - we would have voted for it in a very short time. On the other hand, a wide-ranging debate was held in this case which should have been held in the Commission. Therefore, I still call for the opinion to be revised and I am voting in favour of the Group of the North Legacy.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u113	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,401/5, tabled by Senators Palma and Caliendo, essentially identical to amendment 1,401/6, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario (continued the vote). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment No 1,401/7. I note that, if rejected, the second part and subsequent amendments 1,401/8 and 1,401/9 are precluded, then Amendment 1,401/10 will be passed on.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u116	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I will vote in favour of this amendment, partly because its rejection precludes amendment 1,401/8. These amendments are in fact on the same line, that is to say they try to make sure that we do not confuse things that are historically established and sacred, with bagatelle. Therefore, our proposal is to keep Article 6 of the International Convention firm, where it speaks of genocide and Shoah, but to expunge the other two articles, which also, for the love of God, have their roots in very serious matters: if a war crime is committed, it must be pursued, but I think it is useful to read some of the events mentioned in the amendment that we have presented (in case there are about 70 cases) which, if advertised in the forms I mentioned earlier, would lead to a condemnation: "destruction and appropriation of goods, not justified by military needs and carried out on a large scale illegally and arbitrarily; deportation, transfer or illegal detention; deliberately direct attacks against civil populations as such or against civilians who do not take directly part in hostilities"; deliberately launch attacks in the awareness that they will result in the loss of human lives among the civilian population and injury to civilians or damage to civil property or widespread, long-lasting and serious damage to the natural environment that are manifestly excessive compared to all the concrete and direct military benefits envisaged. I do not know if you realize: they are mentioned in the same law, the Holocaust and the lasting and serious damage to the natural environment, which are manifestly excessive compared to all the concrete and direct military benefits envisaged. These two cases are affected by the same sentence, six years in prison: do you realize what you are approving or not? You realize all these things that I've read to you - for example: "Destroying or confiscating the enemy's assets, unless confiscation or destruction is imperatively required by the necessity of war; violating the dignity of people, in particular by using humiliating and degrading treatments" - are all the accusations made in Tsahal, the Israeli army, and Israel, accusing them of ethnic cleansing and racist attitudes? Do you realize that these cases are precisely the ones that give rise, at an international level, to an attempt to criminalize an entire country? How do you strike dissent against these positions, that is, who denies that ethnic or racial issues have led a country to defend itself or that, in the history of the United States of America, have led to the colonization of white people? Probably, since in point b) there are four years (but the verification is in progress) it would also impact the Severino law, compared to a sentence of this type. There would therefore be a decadence as a senator or a Member of Parliament, because a sentence of more than four years - I am making a verification of the sentences provided for in the Severino law - risks to lead, in addition to the sentence, also to the revocation of the position of senator or Member of Parliament, in relation to these cases. Therefore we ask at least to limit this whole discussion to historically important facts, such as the Holocaust or the genocides, excluding all these bagattellar stuffs, which water down and offend the memory of the Holocaust.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u119	Comrade (CoR). I'm requesting a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u120	As I have already said, Senator Compagna, since there has been a request for a vote by electronic procedure, the quorum is automatically verified Indigo the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,401/7, tabled by Senator Giovanardi and other senators. I would remind you that the vote is on the first part of the amendment. If rejected, the following are foreclosed. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1,401/8 and 1,401/9 are therefore excluded. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). There was no quorum. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Senate is a quorum, otherwise the electronic system would have indicated that the Senate was not a quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u123	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, with regard to the electronic voting system, it is clear that in this case there was a quorum because the original applicants were in large numbers. But she has a duty to check whether the original applicants are in the Chamber or not, even if they are not voting. We cannot think of asking at the beginning of the sitting for all votes to take place with the electronic system, with reference to a single article on which hundreds of amendments may have been tabled, and then assuming that the applicants continue to be present until the last minute of the sitting, without a verification of their actual presence. Therefore, I believe that the number of applicants should be subject to constant verification, because otherwise the meaning of our presence in this House is altered. I believe that even those who are convinced of the goodness of the fact that our votes should mainly be expressed by the electronic system agree with this principle. Otherwise, I am obliged to ask you to review the practice in the Rules of Procedure Board and to withdraw the authorisation that the request for electronic voting may be valid for an "x" number of votes, even if referring to a single article, because this completely distorts its meaning. This would mean, Madam President, indeed, that, with only ninety-nine voters, the Senate could be in a quorum, just because two hours ago the request for electronic voting was supported by fifty applicants. It is a question of fairness, in the broadest sense, of the progress of our work. Perhaps we should return to previous practice, because this is an innovation of the current legislature. The electronic vote, as our Rules of Procedure say, must be requested on a case-by-case basis so as to be sure that the applicant is in the Chamber. Otherwise, the Presidency, I do not say at every vote, but especially when there is a clear decline in presence in this House, must check whether the original applicants are present. Even if they do not vote, they must be present in the Chamber, checking - as has been requested several times - that their card is included in the voting system. Otherwise I ask for the electronic vote at the beginning of the sitting and then I turn away. You should have the cards removed and the cards removed should not be enabled to justify the number of applicants for verification of the quorum. Let me turn to the second question, Madam President. You said that we will proceed directly to sub-amendment 1,401/10. Let me point out to you that the text of sub-amendment 1,401/9 is different from 1,401/8 as well as from the first part of sub-amendment 1,401/7, namely 3-a, because Article 7 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court is also included in the 1,401/9. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We have voted for the first part of Article 6, in fact. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). I have heard that we voted on the first part, an expression that means a precise letter. I didn't listen to you say until the words "Article 6" are said. All I heard was that he put the first part to the vote, and if there is no specific intervention that cuts the letter half, I only mean the letter.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u124	I repeat that the quorum, once requested, is assumed to continue, in terms of the Rules of Procedure. With regard to the cards, there is already a directive of the President that requires them to be removed; therefore, the Secretaries verify that this corresponds to truth, but there is no further verification of the quorum when the vote takes place by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure, and you, Senator D'Alì, know it better than I do. In any case, we have a quorum, even if we have a test of resistance. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). What are we talking about? [[Protests from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Then let's get the cards off! Mr President, let me speak on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I will only give you the floor if the other colleagues in your group are calm, Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u125	Madam President, it really becomes a farce if we have to say that we have to remove the card and make it appear that we are not present. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] If we have not voted and you believe that 114 votes represent the quorum is a farce. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senators Giovanardi and Stefani]] I'll tell you, then, if we're forced to take away the cards and stay here, let's take them off, let's not vote, and let's see what the quorum is.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u126	I would point out that the number of applicants for electronic voting required by the Rules of Procedure is 12, in this case there were 54 applicants. In any case, I am told that even by subtracting the quorum for the request for verification of the quorum, the Senate was still in a quorum. So, we can proceed. [[Comments of Senators Calderoli and Quagliariello. Senator Caliendo's protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u129	Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, it seems to me quite frankly that your interpretation in the light of the practice is impeccable. On the other hand, it seems to me also very sensible and thorough what Senator D'Alì said, namely that it is clear that, beyond practice, it is difficult in general to continue work on the presumption of a situation that the facts have changed. Madam President, I believe that this is a classic case in which the unstable balance of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure should not prevent us from bringing it together and bringing the question to the House about a real situation that has taken place in this House. You don't have to do this right away. However, the fact that this situation has happened has to be kept in the minutes and that there is a need for cold thinking so that a situation that does not exist is not certified. This seems to me to be a minimum element of common sense on which we could find ourselves. Madam President, I would therefore ask you to leave on the record the request that, as soon as possible and not at this time, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure should take account of the situation and come to a determination that you could not judge otherwise, but that Senator D'Alì is certainly right in the arguments he has brought.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u130	I would like to reassure my colleagues that the quorum was present, including by calculating the quorum required for verification. This is the numerical data. It has been widely acknowledged that the request to verify the quorum from time to time is not our practice and, therefore, we cannot innovate in this regard today. [[Senator Caliendo's comments.]] It's 26.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u133	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I agree in part with your reading of the Rules of Procedure, but the point is another one. It has been established and has been pointed out to you by colleagues from various groups who in the previous vote were included in the device so many cards belonging to senators not present. On the basis of this objective figure, which has been noted by several groups and not by one, I would ask you to cancel the previous vote and to give it again, in order to restore a situation of absolute legality at the voting stage. Even now I see dozens of inserted cards belonging to absent senators both on the right and on the left side of the hemicycle. I am highlighting this fact and colleagues can comfort me. In conclusion, I repeat my request to cancel the previous vote and repeat it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u134	Senator Santangelo, I would like to reply to your request by pointing out that nothing has been mentioned during the vote. Therefore, the vote is fully valid and should not be cancelled.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u137	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, forgive me, but with regard to the concept of practice, I would like to point out that any practice can be established at any time and become such only after a number of iterations of the same principle. Furthermore, since these matters are currently not regulated, we could at any time decide, unless the Committee on the Rules of Procedure decides in the future, to establish the practice for which a quorum is requested each time. I repeat: we could do this at any time.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u138	Senator Martelli, the practice derives from a repeated custom and is one of the institutions of constitutional law. [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u141	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, my colleague, Senator of the Movimento 5 Stelle Group, who spoke earlier, is quite right and I am sorry that you responded by saying that Members should have spoken by pointing out the presence of cards belonging to senators not present. This is the task not of the senators, but of the Bureau. For this reason, I believe that your answer is completely wrong. This is my judgment and it may also be that I have misinterpreted or had a knowledge other than yours. In any case, I do not think it is the Senator who should report to the Presidency, but it is the Presidency that should check whether the places where the cards are inserted are the senators who vote or not. There has been so much discussion in this House on this matter to make it clear that, when we are absent to go to the bathroom, we should remove the card from the voting system; in the event that we do not do so, the Presidency intervenes with the Quaestors and makes it parade. Therefore, the answer you had to give to my fellow senator should have been as follows: I take note of what you are saying. We will check to see who is in the Chamber and re-vote it, for the sake of fairness. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u142	This can be true for the next vote, and not for the previous one, for which neither the secretary senators, nor the quaestors, nor others have claimed anything. As far as practice is concerned, to be precise, I said that it was established as a custom and this is also codified by an opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. In view of the fact that it is 10.45 p.m., I shall refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting. AIROLA (M5S). (At the address of Senator Secretary Saggese). I asked for the floor! It's your job to see him! It's your job! GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I would like to speak on Amendment No 1,401/9, which is still alive and which is different from Amendment No 1,401/7. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, but the outcome of the vote on amendment 1,401/7 has been declared; it has been rejected following the rejection of its first part, until the words: 'Article 6', common with those of amendments 1,401/8 and 1,401/9, which are therefore foreclosed. [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] The least is the most. The debate is closed. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Two articles of the Convention are referred to in amendment 1,401/7. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Yes, but if we vote on the amendment to the words: 'from Article 6', the next part is also not included. [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] Senator Giovanardi, you can't have an argument between me and you. [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] He'll explain later. I'm sorry. We cannot settle this issue today. We'll assess. The outcome of the vote has been announced, and I do not think we should go back to it. [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] We're at the end of the session, Senator Giovanardi. I proclaimed the outcome of the vote, saying that the first part was voted, until the words: 'Article 6', and, therefore, everything else was foreclosed, because at most it is the least. If we vote and reject the first part, everything else does not stand and therefore also amendments 1,401/8 and 1,401/9, the first part of which has a common part with that rejected. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). No. Amendment 1,401/9 is different. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, we can discuss this privately. I confirm the outcome of the vote and I beg you, therefore, not to insist. [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u145	[[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] FABBRI (PD). Madam President, if Senator Giovanardi will allow me to speak. Today is the World Day for Health and Safety at Work desired by the ILO, the International Labour Organization, UN agency. This year's celebration is dedicated to work-related stress and psychosocial risks. From this point of view, it is useful to recall that Article 28 of the single safety text requires all employers to assess the work-related stress, i.e. the relationship between the organisation of the activity and health, understood as a state of complete physical well-being. But, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is also useful to remember that today is the World Day dedicated to asbestos victims. According to a World Health Organization report, there are about 15,000 people who lose their lives every year in Europe due to asbestos-related diseases and 21,000 cases registered in Italy from 1993 to 2012, 70% of whom have a certain, probable or possible diagnosis of occupational exposure to asbestos, and only 1.6% attributable to an extra-work cause. Madam President, much has been done since in 1992, under Law 257, asbestos was banned in Italy, but we believe that much still needs to be done and that the issue and its social importance, justice, health and the environment, requires responsibility to be taken to find a definitive solution by Parliament and all political forces. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u148	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, once again, despite us, we are prophets. On 7 October last in the Chamber of Deputies, the 5 Star Movement, thanks to our spokesman Luigi Gallo, was once again prophet on the Lande srl case, this time, and on supposed public contracts that would favor the Casalesi. At the time the question was raised by the deputy to Minister Franceschini in relation to the second strand of inquiry on Pompeii, for corruption and auction disturbance, aggravated by the camorristic method in favour of the Zagaria clan of the Casalesi, by precisely the then managing director of the Lande, Marco Cascella. He asked, then, in the question time, to activate inspections and controls on the many public contracts of the Lande, which are all over Italy, but Franceschini slipped, minimized and glisso. Mr Gallo, however, did not spare telling the Minister that we would have held him responsible if further investigations of this company had to be made in the future. And so it was. Two days ago the PD was overwhelmed by a new investigation involving the company in question, and which brought nine people to prison, including the former mayor of Santa Maria Capua Vetere Di Muro, of a list supported by the PD, and the President of the Campania PD Stefano Graziano, for a public contract for the recovery of the Palazzo Teti, property confiscated from the Camorra. According to the district direction anti-Mafia of Naples, the race would be won by a group of companies close to the Zagaria clan (again), among which we find the company Lande. Graziano, who is a majority regional councillor, would have been elected by telephone interceptions thanks to the votes of the Camorra, through the entrepreneur of Casapesenna Alessandro Zagaria, who would have guaranteed him the votes of the clan for the regional elections of 2015. We ask that Graziano resign from the Regional Council, as has already been requested by our regional spokesman Malerba, and that all necessary inspections and controls be activated on the numerous and important public contracts won by Lande company throughout Italy, which - we remember - is almost always present everywhere in the investigations that have been in the last ten years for infrastructure and public works throughout Italy, from Alexandria, Pompeii, the G8 of Maddalena, works for the High Speed, works for the Unity of Italy, up to the recent survey on Total of the Public Prosecutor of Potenza. The Lande is always there. [[Applause from Senator Puglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u151	Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I would like to point out that the problem of the mafias and the related issue between the mafias and politics is current, as the Graziano case in Campania reminds us. It is an issue on which the legislator has acted, but not effectively. For example, Law No 175 of 2010, the so-called Lazzati Act, was intended to ban all forms of electoral propaganda to mobsters under special surveillance of public security. But in the end the text approved, amended and re-edited, prohibited the mobsters only the leafleting and posting of posters, as well as a whole other series of "se" and "ma". Imagine a mobster campaigning on posters or flyers? In April 2013, Senator Molinari's first draft law No. 455, aimed at eliminating all limitations that had rendered the Law Lazzati ineffective, was presented. That bill is still in the First Senate Commission. I now ask that this text be discussed in the Commission as soon as possible and that it should continue until it is approved, so that the Mafias can be deprived of the possibility of having any influence on the electoral campaign and, through that, on politics. I ask the majority to move from words to action to really address the issue of freeing all politics from opaque but obscenely beneficial relationships with organized crime. If the Mafia does not depart from the Republic, it becomes unbearably hypocritical to celebrate the heroes who, isolated, oppose the Mafia. This is crucial. It is a fundamental choice that must be made soon, in order to overcome the oppositions from press release and do what the legislator must do: good laws. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-617.ana.u152	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.57 p.m.
