ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u8	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly]] Ladies and gentlemen, on 13 November, Enzo Majorca, a great Italian sportsman, repeatedly held the world record of apnea dive and member of this Assembly in the 12th legislature, was missing. Born in Syracuse on June 21, 1931, Enzo Mallorca was very young and attracted by the love for the sea and the spirit of exploration of the seabed. In the summer of 1956, evoked by the record of depth achieved by two divers - Ennio Falco and Alberto Novelli - decides to engage in the sports practice of diving in apnea. Only a few years later, in 1960, he reached the record of descent up to 45 meters deep, beating the Brazilian Amerigo Santarelli, holder of the world record. It is the beginning of a great era that sees Majorca improving that goal several times, until 1988, the year in which he abandoned the practice of diving, after having achieved his last record of 101 meters of depth. In 1994 he was elected senator on the National Alliance lists and joined the Defence Commission. As a Member of Parliament she is particularly committed to legislative initiatives aimed at combating juvenile delinquency, the discipline of professional diving and hyperbaric activities, the establishment of the Ministry of the Sea, as well as - as rapporteur - the conversion of decree-laws relating to the carrying out of international missions of peace. With Enzo Majorca therefore disappears a great sportsman, but also a man who, with generosity and civic spirit, used his popularity to spread to the public the love for sport and nature, as well as the importance of protecting the ecosystem and marine heritage. In formulating the heartfelt participation of the Senate of the Republic in the pain of family, friends and the Syrian community for the disappearance of Enzo Majorca, I invite the Assembly to observe a minute of recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u11	GIBIINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask colleagues who have to leave the Chamber to do so, and those who remain silent. [[Brusio.]] Maybe I should say it a little louder.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u12	Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, we are still in the commemoration phase of Senator Majorca.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u13	GIBIINO (FI-PdL XVII). These days I tried to write something about Enzo Majorca but I could not, because I thought that what I would write would be too little compared to what he did and, probably, I would not be able to give back to my colleagues and to this House the real meaning of this man. I prefer to speak with my arms, remembering certain moments of his life. Everyone, over the years, has witnessed his important deeds have learned the results achieved that have been commemorated these days; I do not want to mention the various records that have followed or the competition that, superficially, has been perceived by many who have followed him in the battles first with Santarelli and then with Mayol. There were two principles that informed the life of this man: one was that of the challenge with himself, because he did not challenge Santarelli and did not challenge Mayol, but himself; the other, as he went on in his life, was that of having had the perception of being part of a whole. In 1931 he was born in Syracuse in a small village, in a hamlet very close to the sea: he could watch it from 70-100 meters. This child looked at the immensity of the sea, with its colors, its anger, its strength; then, no one knew the depths, no one knew what was underneath. The child had simply received from fishermen the image of the sea monsters and of what could happen inside and below what was seen, and began to perceive the sea both horizontally - as almost all of us perceive it - and in a vertical dimension, that is, in the dimension of what is below. You must think that this man's love and passion brought him - as you may have read in some anecdote or heard in some video - to modify a gas mask from World War II to try to see what was underwater. It is clear that with the gas mask he could not see much, because probably there was much water in it, but imagine what happens when a child can go from looking underwater through the naked eyes, in a confused way, to looking through a glass and having a much more distinct and true perception of what is under the sea, in that vertical sea. What are the depths to him I'll say later. President Grasso quoted two important records from Majorca. One was born almost by chance: when Santarelli tore the world record in constant order at -41 meters of depth on the other side of the world, his doctor told him; he was very familiar with the sea, but he had a great respect, and he decided to try to see what would happen. Enzo Majorca, when he began the challenge with himself, did not even know who Santarelli was; but if Santarelli, on the other side of the world, could reach -41 meters, he who, as he said, was no one but a human being, he who determined himself every morning, forced himself, reacted and tried to achieve a result, wanted to see if he could do it: and he went down beyond 45 meters of depth. The succession of successive records is not the result of a competition, first with Santarelli and then with Mayol, but always of the competition of the human being with himself. I'm sorry that Luc Besson, who made beautiful films, let himself be carried in his movie "Le Grand Bleu" in that horrible representation of a stupid dualism and also a bit bizarre and surreal between Mayol and Majorca, that you could see every now and then, but each one chased himself in his own records, because Mayol also reached the records with his own spirituality, although different from the one that had Majorca in the approach to the sea and in the search for goals. Think that it reached the record of 101 meters of depth (it had reached 100 meters a few years before, but then it was exceeded by Mayol with 105) dedicating it to the daughters, both (Patrizia is still alive) holders of dive records in female apnea. He dedicated to his daughters, after two years, the record of 101 meters. Beware that the man was fifty-seven years old when he reached that depth, he was not a little boy; therefore he was yet another challenge to himself. Then he was senator, as President Grasso recalled, in 1994 with the Berlusconi Government, in the ranks of AN; we remembered him with Altero Matteoli that I believe he was his Holding Company of those years. I have two memories I want to give you back. One is from when I was little and I met him for the first time and, the second, from when we were at the table at the wedding of a relative of ours. I was so happy when I told him at the table: "You know, Vincenzo, I became a deputy." He dedicated the whole dinner to what Sicily and Italy could have been and that they couldn't really be because the Sicilians and Italians didn't really know how to choose politicians and why the politics machine couldn't realize the dreams of each of us; basically he said to me: I have done it with dedication and recognizing its importance, but perhaps it is not there that I can achieve my best. I remember this dinner. The second memory is the following: the first time I saw him I was at the home of a relative of ours; I entered, very small, hand in hand with my mother, and I did not ask my mother who Enzo Majorca was, but I identified in him a man who in that house had all around a series of people who remained about two meters away from him, because this was the respect they brought him and this was the charism he had. That place was Ortigia, that place was Syracuse, that was the sea. Senator Alicata, with whom we met yesterday, told me something very nice. When he met with him - the one senator and the other future senator - he tried throughout the interview to give him her and then, in the end, Enzo Majorca told him: I beg you, give me some tea, and so it was. From his words he felt that he had a great respect for Enzo Majorca, nourished towards a person who had achieved a series of goals. Abysses are a separate thing for those who practiced them. You see, when you go down over 50, 60, 70, 80 meters - and whoever speaks to you this thing has done it - you do not have tactile perception, you lose your hearing, because it is altered by water, and it has neither smell, nor taste. You only have strong contact with life, with the breath inside your lungs, and your brain is perfectly connected to the single heartbeat that keeps you alive. Only in that moment, when you reach yourself, when you know yourself at those depths and are alone, do you get the maximum knowledge of your person. And when you return to the surface, to life and to colors - because when you are over 60-70 meters you see everything blue - it is an explosion of joy, which only those who have done these things can perceive. That's why Enzo Majorca claimed that when he could go underwater, not because he went into the sea, but because he found himself underwater. I want to tell you something about this, which concerns us all. You see, many times here, on the surface, when we perceive the horizontal sea and not the vertical sea, when we do not have a clear perception of ourselves and of what we must do, when we do not understand what the challenge of our lives is, we lose ourselves. Perhaps at this moment, the morale of this celebrated life - for this I thank President Grasso and his colleagues, who allowed this commemoration this morning - must also make us find ourselves to some extent. Find ourselves, why we do things and what is the goal we must have, first knowing and reevaluating ourselves and, in the end, becoming part of a whole. When Enzo Majorca was asked the question "But who are you?" he replied that it was a drop. It was the drop of that sea that was all, of which he felt part. Thank you for allowing me to speak this morning, I thank President Matteoli and Senator Alicata, who wanted to talk about Vincenzo Majorca, because they knew him directly (one as a Parent and the other for a visit in the city of Syracuse) and I bring you the greetings of his wife Maria, daughter Patrizia and his grandchildren. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u16	Rossi Luciano (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, after the fine words that Mr Gibiino wanted to dedicate to the memory of Enzo Majorca, there would be little to add. But I cannot avoid highlighting the human qualities of this great character, this extraordinary sportsman, this extraordinary and proud Sicilian and this great, great Italian. These extreme trials he wanted to confront with himself and never turning against his fearsome competitors, but always with that spirit of respect for institutions, sports, opponents and the community. His love for our Italy and for his Sicily was extraordinary; an example for me and for us sportsmen of extraordinary value, something that must remain not only for all those who are lovers of the sea, but for all of us Italians, that in extreme trials, in moments of great and absolute difficulty, Mr President, we find that inner strength that comes from our history. This, for me and for us, was Enzo Majorca. So my words are associated with those that my colleague Gibiino, as a good and proud Sicilian, wanted to collect, even in detail. I share them and I make them mine. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u19	IDEM (PD). Mr President, I would like to say that no one better than Majorca can tell Majorca and, in this sense, I would like to thank the great athlete for having told us with great poetry about his deeds. However, I have tried to grasp certain aspects of his person and personality, which have distinguished his uniqueness and have given us a great legacy to pass on. For this reason, it is indeed with great emotion that I remember today Enzo Majorca - the Lord of the Abysses, as they called him - for having made the search for depth a reason for his life. In this sense, the depth has different meanings, referring not only to that of water, but also to that of thought. Unfortunately, I have never been lucky enough to know Enzo Majorca in person but, overcoming the mourning for his disappearance that unites those who met him in person and those who know the myth only by indirect means, I would like to take this moment to make myself interpreter and maybe also amplifier of the deeds, messages and values that Enzo Majorca left us as a legacy. Many of us have followed the Rio de Janeiro Olympics this year. We rejoiced, proud of medals and victories, and we participated in the anger and disappointment of those who did not crown their dreams. If we had met the protagonists the next day, we would most likely have recognized and stopped them and together with them we would have relived the magical moment of the Olympics. How much energy athletes draw from this collective embrace! [[Brusio.]] Colleagues, excuse me, I do not go by my arms because I have a lot of consideration for this House and I wanted to prepare a written speech in honour of the character. I apologize for the monotony of reading, but I think it is worth following the thought and, therefore, I really thank you for your attention. As I said, once the Olympic flame is extinguished, the same thing always happens: after a few months, no one remembers the national heroes anymore. It's true, Enzo Majorca was not an Olympic athlete, but I wanted to approach him to that field of sport that, perhaps, together with football, moves more than any other the emotions of the spectators, to detect the great skill of the protagonist that we remember today as one of the great, great myths of Italian sport, despite the dive in apnea is not exactly a mass sport or of collections, or however inspired by any criterion that triggers the attention of the great public. What, then, is that makes a great athlete a myth of sport, a sports history holder written with the capital "s"? If we retrace the various stages of Enzo Majorca's journey, we can really pick up many ingredients of this recipe that we can call winning. The first ingredient, ancient as well as modern, for this legend is what I call history in history, because what remains are not only the enterprises and records of Majorca, but also the great rivalry and agony with another protagonist of apnea, first described very well by colleagues, Jacques Mayol, who provided the fabric for epic narratives that have impressed in the collective memory. By preparing this intervention, I came across an interview given by Majorca five years ago in La Spezia, one of the places of his records, in the context of the Festa della Marineria, in which he was asked if, during his career, during his descents he felt like an explorer or if each descent was more a descent for himself. Majorca replied: "No, I've never felt like an explorer, I've always tried to add dowels to my knowledge, to the knowledge I have of myself, revealing with these words his deep motivations in doing sport. Majorca did not seek the result end in himself, but considered it as a piece of knowledge that allowed him to find the balance between body and mind, indispensable to go yes beyond his own limits, but not at the cost of losing balance, depth - precisely - and union with the environment in which he moved. From this was born his deep knowledge of this environment and his awareness of having to defend him from the devastating intervention of man. I would like to quote another sentence from Mallorca also to pay tribute to the excellent narrator what it was and to make us grasp even better his uniqueness. He said: It was a Greek fisherman who explained to me how the brain and heart of man were much more unknown than the abysses of the sea. To really know them you must first know your soul and heart. I wanted to retrace this red thread that marks his great personality and that goes beyond the sporting feats, to remember the great character that he was: he had the human and competitive intelligence to be a great explorer, to accumulate knowledge of what he was doing and the great intellectual intelligence and honesty to translate what he had understood from this experience into a civil commitment. He had the great courage (be careful that entering politics really requires a great courage) to enter politics to try to translate into this activity some of the things he had understood as a great man what he was. His daughters also understood him and followed in his footsteps, realizing that what their father represented was worth knowing and experiencing firsthand. Therefore, I believe that the most beautiful gift and homage we can make to Enzo Majorca is to convey what distinguished his uniqueness: being a champion in sport, but also a champion in life, putting us in front of a mirror that made us understand in which direction our civil commitment must go, putting together all the fields of life. It is in this sense that I think that we must all honor his memory and transmit his values and messages. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u22	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business, because I would like to denounce in this House an extremely serious fact on which I draw the attention of all my colleagues. This morning in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the draft law ratifying the Treaty on the implementation of the high-speed line, the Turin-Lyon train, was under discussion. We had tabled amendments and we were in the process of voting; the rapporteur has tabled sub-amendments and initially there was not even time for them to be submitted. Until now, we have not even been informed of the deadline for sub-amendments to this House. Let us say, therefore, that the parliamentary process of this act is somewhat left to itself. Furthermore, the text of those sub-amendments was not actually delivered to us, but was simply read in the Chamber. We have demanded, as is our right, that those two amendments should be subjugated and so we did in the corridor outside the Commission, writing the sub-amendments by hand and not even having time to understand, with proper knowledge of the facts, what was going on and what we were reading. The President of the Commission, Mr Casini, said that we could not go into the substance of those amendments, because they were not our responsibility, because they were amendments requested by the Budget Commission. I objected to this statement by asking that those amendments should not be put to the vote in our Commission, since they were not within our competence. In my opinion, it is very serious that a senator should be given jurisdiction when, by regulation, we are competent in all the Commissions. So I can table amendments on any subject, because if I do it, the citizens do it and that is a right that you cannot take away from us. It was not possible to make our explanations of vote, either on the amendments or on the individual articles. While we were talking about the amendments and the measure, the Commission voted on both the amendments and the individual articles. What has been taken away from us and what I am denouncing before this House is that on this measure, which we consider to be absolutely unlawful both in substance and in the method (this is what I am denouncing this morning), we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs have been prevented from exercising our prerogatives as Members of Parliament in general and as Members of a Commission. At the moment we do not know what the deadline for tabling amendments to this House is and, I repeat, we were not allowed to vote on either the individual amendments or the bill for ratification as a whole. I therefore ask - and we will do so even later through the question before us - that the measure be brought back to the Commission's examination, because we were not allowed to vote correctly and we were not allowed to express yet another opinion against this agreement. As we have already said, we are opposed for technical reasons (i.e. if we do not discuss them in the 8th Commission or in the 10th Commission), but we are also opposed for 'diplomatic' reasons. So we are also against the Foreign Affairs Committee, emigration, not only on the substance, but also on the method this morning. We therefore call for a return to the Commission of the draft law ratifying the agreement, because we believe that the examination has not been carried out properly. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u25	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, as President of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I may have made a mistake and it was the one who opposed what I was accused of this morning. As all colleagues here have seen, including President Zanda, we have perhaps sinned for an excess of liberality. Let me tell you the facts: at this morning's sitting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Migration - one of the umpteenth sessions, because we were waiting for the opinion of the Budget Commission - the rapporteur tabled two amendments to meet only the conditions laid down by the Budget Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. Members of the 5 Star Movement, at 9.15 a.m., asked for the possibility of passing on these amendments. Despite the obvious obstructionist nature of the request, in the end we took into account the correctness of the relationship that we have always had with our colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, which, moreover, already at the opening of the session of the Commission had raised a problem regarding the regularity of the electoral procedures of the vote of Italians abroad, which is not the responsibility of our Commission because - as is known - this procedure depends on the Ministry of the Interior for which I referred to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which would in any case have been the depository of this eventual request. So - I repeat - please to my colleagues, I have referred the matter to the Undersecretary Della Vedova and I said that if there were any further problems, the custodian of these requests would be Senator Finocchiaro, as President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Yet there has been a debate on this aspect, totally improper, but tolerated by me and also by the majority, please to the colleges of the 5 Star Movement. Despite the obvious obstructionist nature of the request, we have therefore finally considered that this possibility should be granted. In fact, I felt it important to safeguard the prerogatives of the Members of Parliament, and of course to counter them with the need for the good performance of our work and, in particular, of those of this House. It was 9:20 a.m. and I gave five minutes for the submission of the sub-amendments. There were two of them, and at 9.25 a.m., at the resumption of the sitting of the Commission, which at that point could only vote, at least for a matter of time and not to obstruct the work of this House, the Members of the Commission, as proof of their obviously obstructive intention, asked for the amendments to be presented. I told them there was no time to do that. We have therefore regularly voted on the sub-amendments and amendments tabled by the Commission to comply with the requirement of the Budget Commission. The speech ends here. These were self-evident amendments, which spoke of an appropriate revaluation of the cost of the work, the other of the burdens not explained in the text of the agreement. It is clear that there was no need for illustration, since from simple reading all colleagues were perfectly able to vote consciously. I would like to end by saying that I am bitter about this behavior. I understand that the TAV is an issue that you care about and allows you to do any political battle. The fairies are linear by amending the amendments which the Budget Commission has asked us to table and which Senator Sangalli, as rapporteur, has tabled. It is your right to wage political battles, but I believe that they have a border in respect of forms, even between colleagues, and this morning, frankly, an exciting page has not been written. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u28	SCIBONA (M5S). The sub-amendments have not even been read in the Commission. They were voted on without the other Commissioners knowing what the text of the sub-amendments was. CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). You're lying. There's the recording. They've been read. SCIBONA (M5S). They weren't read. It has been said that they have not been illustrated, but they have not even been read. However, we reiterate the need to have a deadline for tabling amendments to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u29	On this issue, the Presidency has taken the view of the 5th Commission and noted that the amendments are the conditions laid down by the Budget Commission. It points out that they are for this very reason inemissable (just because they are conditions without which we cannot proceed). That is the Presidency's assessment. We can proceed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u32	LUCIDES (M5S). I do not know whether our colleagues are listening to what is happening in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u33	Senator Lucidi, there were some of your colleagues in the Budget Committee who could make all the necessary comments at the location where the opinions came from. [[Applause from Senator Casini]] The evaluation was made in the Budget Commission. Once the 5th Commission has expressed itself by laying down those conditions, they are in no way evaluable.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u34	I didn't intervene on that point. I see two democratic problems. First of all, President Casini cannot be attributed the ability to interpret the opinion of other colleagues and to say that the other colleagues have understood and that the text is understandable. These are subjective positions that individual colleagues will confirm individually. I cannot say that my colleague Mr Castaldi says one thing, that my colleague Mr Santangelo says another and that my colleague Mr Scibona thinks something else. It'll be their problem. I don't do it with my parents and I don't allow it with yours. Each Member of Parliament, given that we have a very important legal status, as it is right that in our Italian political landscape we should also try to respect the opinion and the presence of other Members. President-in-Office of the Council. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply. The Foreign Affairs Committee has never said these words. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] So I think there's a procedural problem. We can also go over this nice note that the issue of voting abroad is settled by the competent Commission on Home Affairs (this is a pretty nice note). We can also overlook the fact that the members of the Foreign Affairs Committee are, for the most part, elected in the foreign constituency, so they are the first to be the guarantors of certain prerogatives. We can overlook the fact that the members of the Foreign Affairs Committee for the most part are also members of the Committee on Italian Affairs abroad, so the judgment of the Foreign Affairs Commission raised by President Casini may well leave some doubt. But the fact that, during the debate on the amendments, during the submission of the sub-amendments, as we were unable to know materially that those amendments were not sub-eminable, the Commission accepted them and voted in a completely confusing and disturbing way, gives me some doubt as to the course that has been envisaged for us and which has been followed this morning. I repeat, Mr President, I would simply and kindly like to represent you that there has been a problem: at this moment we do not know the deadline for tabling amendments to this House. There has been a flaw in the process, so let us return to the Commission. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u35	The deadline for tabling amendments to the House has expired.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u36	LUCIDES (M5S). What was that? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lucidi, you have had every opportunity to present your doubts and assessments. You will be able to enter into this matter at the time of the debate in this House, when you can take all the initiatives you wish to take. LUCIDES (M5S). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. But act briefly, because the matter is within the terms that I have explained to you and it is closed. LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, there was an anecdote a few years ago... OF BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). That's enough! LUCIDES (M5S). There was an anecdote about the extinction of dinosaurs and the fact that they had a very slow metabolism: they were dead but not if they were still aware. It seems to me that the scenario is the same. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, please stick to the subject of the discussion. LUCIDES (M5S). The deadline for tabling amendments to this House when we have been informed? If President Casini, in his conscience, tells me that he has said in this House that the deadline for tabling amendments to this House was 11 am, I can do nothing but stick to it. But I didn't hear that word. This is simply to represent you that there was... president. Senator Lucidi, have you tabled any amendments to the House? Have you introduced them? Yes. So there were terms. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] LUCIDES (M5S). No, if you don't specify a deadline, I can... But you also referred a question to the Court for a preliminary ruling. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] LUCIDES (M5S). What does that have to do with anything? We presented the preliminary ruling yesterday. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The question you raised was decided by the Presidency in those terms. LUCIDES (M5S). The question referred for a preliminary ruling was raised yesterday, and the sub-amendments arrived this morning. I simply say, with great courtesy: it is okay that we are talking about the high-speed train, but it is not the high-speed amendments. SUSTA (PD). That's enough! LUCIDES (M5S). If we ever do, and we will see this, because situations can change very quickly, especially in Italy. Mr President, I am simply asking you, with great courtesy and calmness: we have not been informed of the deadline for tabling amendments to this House; I am raising this problem because there has been clearly a procedural problem in the Commission. That is clear. We cannot fail to agree with that. As we spoke, our colleagues voted. This is not an exercise of great democracy. SUSTA (PD). That's enough! LUCIDES (M5S). But just what, I'm sorry? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lucidi, speak to the presidency. LUCIDES (M5S). Please shut up Senator Susta. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I've already given you an answer to the problem you posed. What else do you ask? LUCIDES (M5S). I simply wanted to point out to you that the fact that if we do not have a deadline for tabling amendments to this House is because we have not been informed. We presented the preliminary ruling yesterday, but the sub-amendments were tabled today.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u37	I repeat, these are sub-amendments which cannot be amended, these are the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission, so they do not trigger sub-amendments. This is a very clear procedural issue and the Presidency has resolved it in this way, so please exercise all your senatorial prerogatives when it comes to this matter in this House. We now have another item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u38	I would like it to remain in the documents, however, the fact that the statement that the rapporteur's two amendments were not subeminable did not emerge during the Commission's work because a correct procedure was not followed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It has now emerged clearly. SANTANGELO (M5S). It is not clear which Rule of the Rules of Procedure is being referred to!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u39	We greet the students and students of the Institute including Correzzola, in the province of Padua, who attend our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u42	Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank you and President Casini for making it clear that Mr Lucidi's objections had no foundation and that they are only a way of obstructing an issue which, legitimately, the 5 Star Movement does not want to be dealt with in this House. We, however, equally legitimately, want to say instead that the approval of the ratification of the Turin-Lion high-speed line is at the heart of the majority of Government because we believe it is an important tool for the development of this country and it is also a way to show that Italy is capable of fulfilling the commitments it takes on an international level. I also wanted to put before the House the urgency of restoring, from this point of view, the agenda that we had given ourselves and that had been amended only pending the opinions that the Budget Commission had to express. The objective urgency of dealing immediately with the subject of the Turin-Lion line with the relative ratification that - we remember - collects in particular the anti-mafia regulation that will allow to be sure that the work will continue with speed and absolute transparency, without there is any possible infiltration of the crime in such an important work, leads me to ask the Assembly, with the support of the required number of senators, the reversal of the agenda in order to allow the immediate treatment of this measure. In fact, we have a very precise date, 31 December, by which ratification must be completed, even by a resolution of the other branch of Parliament. We are in the season of budgetary maneuvering and therefore we know how complicated it is to include these issues in the calendar of our work and in that of our colleagues in the House. That is why I ask you to be able to begin immediately the discussion of the ratification measure already envisaged as the second item on the agenda, and then to conclude immediately after the other measures.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u43	I would remind you that no more than one speaker against and one in favour will be able to speak on the proposal to reverse the agenda put forward by Senator Russo.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u46	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, I believe that the measure we are debating, relating to professional responsibility, is an issue which is just as important and even more important than the issue of the FTA. It was so important that, after the vote on the amendments, we immediately voted on the text in the Commission, without even having a written version, correctly amended, so that it could be included in the timetable for the work of this House. This shows how careful the oppositions have all been, recognizing the importance of this measure. This was emphasized by the Health and Health Commission, and this shows that the measure we are debating, concerning professional responsibility, is certainly more urgent, also because it will have to return to the House again. Therefore, we do not believe that the agenda should be reversed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u47	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to reverse the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u50	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to know the number of eight senators who requested that the agenda be reversed. Then, before we proceed with the vote by show of hands, I ask for the quorum to be checked.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u51	In fact, the senators who asked for the order of business to be reversed seem to be many more than the ones asked for. Some of them, who are raising their hands, are Senator Sangalli, Senator Stefano Esposito, Senator Fabbri, Senator Martini, Senator Elena Ferrara, Senator Margiotta and others. I mean, it's more than eight. Let us then proceed to the verification of the quorum, previously requested by Senator Santangelo. Verification of the quorum Mr President. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the proposal to reverse the agenda. I put to the vote the proposal to reverse the agenda put forward by Senator Russo. It's approved. I'm guessing the request for re-test will be made. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u52	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2551. The rapporteur, Senator Sangalli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u53	Mr President, the draft law before the House brings about the ratification and implementation of the agreement signed between Italy and France for the start of the work of the cross-border section of the new Turin-Lyon railway line. (at 10:27 a.m.) (The rapporteur was Mr Sangalli). It is recalled that the Turin-Lyon railway line is considered an essential link for the creation of an efficient transport axis along the east-west direction of the European Continent, in order to further consolidate the economic interchange between Italy and the other European countries, re-launching the railway transport, regarding the road one, especially for the goods. According to the assumptions underlying the project, the Mediterranean Corridor, of which Turin-Lyon is an essential part, represents for Italy one of the main networks to support the industrial fabric, because it is able to guarantee greater accessibility and a better connection with the other trans-European corridors that pass through Italy. As a signatory to the Alpine Convention, Italy and France also promote the environmental sustainability of transport. In this respect it has been estimated that the construction of the new line - essential also because of the inadequacy to the modern railway transport of the historical line of the Frejus - will lead to an annual reduction of greenhouse gas emissions of about 3 million tons, equivalent to those produced from a city of 300,000 inhabitants. This is therefore an important contribution within the framework of the European greenhouse gas reduction strategy, as provided for in the agreement signed in Paris under COP21 and recently ratified by this Parliament. The European Union had foreseen the creation of a trans-European rail network since July 1996, which was then extended to the new Member States in 2004. On this network the Turin-Lion line is a priority axis, because it crosses two of the major developed areas of the continent: the south-eastern zone of France and the Po Valley. The line is part of the Lisbon-Kiev Corridor 5 of the Trans-European Transport Network, one of the ten corridors that the European Union considers to be a priority. In view of its strategic importance, Turin-Lyon has already been able to count important European co-financing quotas at the study stage. In particular, the European Union decided to co-finance the project by signing a financing agreement, up to 2019, amounting to 40% of the amount of expenditure. It is recalled that Italy and France signed, in January 2012, an agreement (examined and approved also by our Assembly in April 2014), which set the breakdown of the costs of the cross-border section of the work to the extent of 57.9 percent to be borne by Italy and 42.1 percent to be borne by France, net of the European contribution. The agreements before us conclude the process of opening up the final work in the cross-border section, with the co-financing that has been said. It is also recalled that this section is the first phase of the work and extends for about 65 kilometers between the towns of Saint-Jean-de-Maurienne in France and Susa/Bussolino in Italy. Its fundamental element is a 57 kilometers tunnel (of which 45 in French territory and 12 in Italian territory) that will allow to limit the maximum slope of the current mountain line existing between Turin, Bardonecchia, Modane and Lyon and therefore to reduce of 40 percent the energy cost of crossing for the trains goods along the route. The authorisation procedures in both countries were concluded in 2015 and the finalization of the so-called final reference project is currently underway, which transposes all the requirements deriving from national approval acts. Let us now look in more detail at the three agreements we are examining. The Agreement of 24 February 2015 provides for the start of the final work of the cross-border section of the railway line, entrusting its implementation to the public promoter Tunnel Euroalpin Lyon Turin and referring the definition of the certified cost of the project to an additional protocol to be defined between the two countries. The Agreement reaffirms the commitment of the Parties to combat attempts to infiltrate the Mafia (Article 2), also regulates aspects relating to the organisation of the commission of related work (Article 4), the way in which the public promoter operates (Article 5). The Additional Protocol of 8 March 2016, consisting of a premise and four articles, covers the validation of the certified cost of the project and the definition of the monetary discount criteria and the evolution of the costs of the factors of production of the works. In particular, Article 2 calculates the certified and discounted cost of EUR 8,300 million and defines the relative distribution between the parties. Paragraph 2.1 specifically provides for the parties to assume a certified cost. The update is subject to annual verification until the completion of the work, on the basis of a specific reference index. The contract rules, defined by the relevant Intergovernmental Commission, concern the definition of the applicable rules in order to prevent and counter attempts to infiltrate mafia contracts, both those concluded by the public promoter and those between the holders of contracts and their subcontractors or sub-affidators. Title III regulates the reasons for excluding undertakings from participation, direct or indirect, in the procedures for carrying out the work. The task of ensuring the functioning of mechanisms for preventing the risk of criminal infiltration or conditioning is delegated to a joint committee, including a white list of economic operators with regard to which there has been no obstacle. Article 12, which regulates the tracing and financial monitoring of payments relating to contracts for the execution of works, is also important. The regulation of contracts thus integrates Italian legislation into the French body of law in the field of public contracts. With the ratification of the Agreement under consideration by the French Parliament, this Regulation, when an act of international law, has a legal value which prevails over ordinary law. There are therefore precise guarantees about the exclusion of possible mafia infiltrations in the realization of the work. Moreover, the Regulation of Contracts, which is not an autonomous act and distinct from the 2015 Agreement and the Additional Protocol of 2016, being an immediate consequence of this, has the same international act value. Its development through the Intergovernmental Conference also appears to be entirely in line with the provisions of the 1969 Vienna Convention on the Law on Treaties. There are, moreover, previous examples of international treaties for which the French Government has delegated to the appropriate bilateral commission the task of drawing up rules of a legislative or regulatory nature immediately valid for the internal system. It has already been the case for the setting of rules on competition and rail safety for the Channel Tunnel in 1986 and for the Mont Blanc Tunnel in 2006. Contrary to what some critics claim of the project therefore, the applicability of Italian anti-mafia legislation also in French law is not at all controversial. The draft law of ratification consists of four articles which have, respectively, the authorization to ratify, the order of execution, the way in which the work is carried out and the entry into force of the text. In relation to the technical and financial aspects, the report points out that for the realization of the work, existing legislation will be provided for subsequent non-functional constructive lots, challenging for the Parties only within the limits of funding that the Government will make actually available, in line with the chronoprogram of the works. Article 2 provides that within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the law, the CIPE will decide on the start of the lots financed with the resources already available under current legislation, amounting to 2,564,7 million euros. The same article calculates in little more than 25,000 euros the total of the burdens deriving from the Regulation of the contracts, ascribable to expenses of mission for the members of the binational joint structure, as well as for the carrying out of inspection visits to the yards of work. In conclusion, it is proposed that the Assembly approve this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u54	I declare that a question has been referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Lucidi to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give a brief reply to Senator Russo. The Budget Committee has been forced to discuss the opinion on this amendment, as usual, for a government maneuver that imposes its action on our Parliament and this should be a point of extreme reflection for us. Let us not forget that the budget committee is currently dealing with the two famous earthquake measures. I do not think there is an urgent fight on this issue. This is definitely not what the Italians are waiting for. That being said, let's get to the bottom of it. We are discussing draft law n. 2551, which authorizes the ratification of two acts: the first is the Agreement between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the French Republic for the start of the final work of the cross-border section of the new Turin-Lyon railway line, made in Paris on 24 February 2015. The second is, instead, an Additional Protocol, with its Annex, made in Venice on 8 March 2016, with annexed Rules of Contracts. This is a very important point: in addition to the Agreement, the Protocol and its Annex, we have annexed a contract regulation. Let us examine in detail the measure that we are going to ratify. Article 1 of the draft law provides for the authorization to ratify both acts I mentioned earlier, but in so doing, as has already happened many times, unfortunately, the members of the Senate will not be able to express their vote differently between the first and second acts. In fact, it is proposed to approve a single bill of ratification and the first paragraph of Article 72 of the current Constitution is not respected, which provides that each draft law is examined by a Commission and then by the Assembly, which approves it article by article. In essence, in this case the senators will not be allowed to speak, for example, in favour of ratification of the Agreement referred to in point (a) and in a way contrary to ratification of the Protocol referred to in point (b). The draft law proposes the ratification of these bilateral treaties, in implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the French Republic for the implementation and operation of a new Turin-Lyon railway line, with its annexes. The abovementioned Agreement, in turn, expressly represents the additional protocol of the 2001 Framework Agreement. With regard to the latter acts, it should be noted that on 27 June 2013 - and I would ask you to pay great attention to this fact - the French Republic, in particular the Mobility Commission 21, set up at the Ministry of the Environment, excluded, in its final report, the connection to the existing lines, since, given the uncertainties on the timetable of the base tunnel, the Commission was unable to ensure that the risk of saturation of the line and conflict on the line that would justify the implementation of the project would occur before 2035-2040. I believe that this statement, Senator Russo, would be enough to say that there is absolutely no hurry to proceed with this act, as another State has already provided differently and is certainly doing so using logic and common sense. I repeat: the French Mobility Commission 21, at the Ministry of the Environment, has said that it does not proceed with successive agreements: given the uncertainties about the timetable of the basic tunnel, the Commission has not been able to ensure that the risk of saturation of the line and conflict on the line that would justify the implementation of the project would be before 2035-2040. This means that this Commission is classifying the project of access to the Turin-Lion binational link as a second priority regardless of the financial scenario. It should be noted that any condition which affects the first act referred to in paragraph (a) determines the nullity of the second; this condition - the ratification of an inexecutable agreement - would already in itself constitute a clear violation of Article 97 of the Constitution which imposes the good performance of public administration. But there's more. Italy and France signed on 24 February 2015 the Agreement referred to in point (a) of the first paragraph of this document, for the start of the final work of the cross-border section of the new Turin-Lion railway line. This Agreement provides for an Additional Protocol, composed of four Articles, which have the same object and to be concluded by means of an Exchange of Letters. Do we agree on this, ladies and gentlemen? The Agreement provides for an Additional Protocol consisting of four Articles, which have the same object and to be concluded by means of an Exchange of Letters within the meaning of Article 3 of the Agreement, initialled on 8 March 2016. However, the documents supplied to Parliament do not indicate the exchange of letters referred to in Article 3 of the Agreement of 24 February 2015. The Protocol is therefore initialled jointly, in a manner similar to the Agreement. I don't know if the concept is clear. More in detail, the above mentioned Article 3 of the Agreement defines the certified cost of the project (...) in the January 2012 currency. So we are four years ahead of the assessment made and referred to in Article 3 of the Agreement. This cost shall be validated, as referred to in the preceding paragraph, by means of the Additional Protocol to be ratified at the same time as the Agreement; A protocol which should have been concluded - and I would like to draw your attention to this point - by means of an exchange of letters, but which is not recorded in the documentation provided to Parliament. We are, therefore, faced with a real institutional or bureaucratic blockade. The exchange of letters, which should have concluded the Agreement, did not actually occur. And this is another point - and I think it is important - which is even more important to prevent the adoption of the draft law and the subsequent ratification of the Treaties contained in it. We now come to the next article, Article 5 of the Agreement of 24 February 2015, which amends the Agreement signed in 2012, which represents the legislative source of the agreements which are to be ratified by means of the draft law in title. In particular, Article 7.5 of the Act is amended by providing that the contract commission shall deliver its opinion as soon as possible and in any case no later than 90 days. Previously, only the 90 - day term was mentioned. Excuse me, Mr President, I see the light of my microphone flashing. Do we have time to explain the questions referred for a preliminary ruling? PRESIDENT. - The debate is You have ten minutes, Senator Lucidi, as required by the Rules of Procedure. I give you one more minute to complete your speech. LUCIDES (M5S). Our proposal for a preliminary ruling is already in the proceedings and within it all our reasons for the adoption of the draft law in question are collected and collected. There is one important fact, which I mentioned earlier: there is actually another state. Very often we, Senator Russo, refer to other countries as models, but unfortunately we do, or rather you only do so when it suits you or suits you. When referring to foreign models, and therefore to external models in relation to our order, instead, it could be a choice of common sense and logic, you do not. However, for all the reasons which I have expressed in part during this morning, and not only in this speech but also in the previous one, and for those contained in our proposal for a preliminary ruling, I would ask the House, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, not to proceed with the examination of the Senate Act 2551. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u56	We greet a delegation of representatives of the Indonesian Parliament who, in the second order of the tribune, are following our work. Welcome to Italy, welcome to the Senate of the Republic. Thank you for your presence among us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u57	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a representative per group may intervene on the question referred for a preliminary ruling for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u60	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we shall vote in favour of the question referred to us by Senator Lucidi for various reasons. In general, we continue to be absolutely opposed to the work itself and, therefore, to all subsequent acts, including the Treaties. Moreover, with reference to the last ratification examined by this Assembly, we had found - for the truth, with little acceptance - a series of issues not only on the possible mafia infiltrations, but also on the non correspondence between the French and the Italian legislation, in particular regarding the safety of the job and, even more, the rules applicable in order to counter and prevent the criminal infiltrations mafia. The 2012 Italian-French agreement for the realization of the Turin-Lyon line, which is linked to the act we are examining, has a particular protocol regarding the implementation and future management of the cross-border section (i.e. the common Italian-French part). Our concerns have always focused on the common part of construction and future management and also on the choices made on the functioning of the public promoter. The issues that we raised last time are very sensitive and concern the possibility of putting in the Italian legal order (i.e. the ratifying one) of rules contrary to the Constitution. In our view, the concern we have raised has not been eliminated at all. In particular, with regard to the regulation of the contracts to be ratified, it must be noted that some provisions give rise to reservations in our own right as regards their constitutional compatibility. With regard, for example, to the rules applicable in order to prevent and counter the phenomena of mafia infiltration (so also with regard to the system of procurement controls), a number of doubts have been raised by various parties - even by the President of the National Anti-corruption Authority - regarding the capacity of such procedures (chosen by the parties and which we ratify today) in order to make the instrument of regulation actually reasonable, real and effective, without having to resort to the actual amendment of the Treaties. In our view, all doubts remain intact. Among other things, we have retabled the amendments on this particular case, because we do not consider the rules inserted in relation to the issue of the public promoter, both for public contracts and for all sub-contracting and sub-trusting by the same public promoter, capable of preventing the infiltration of organised crime. We believe the Italian rules for the fight against the mob are much more effective. We criticize above all the choice that concerns the public promoter, because we have already had the absolutely negative experience, achieved to the choices made with the objective law, of the general contractor - the figure of the promoter is quite similar - and of how those norms and instruments have not been absolutely sufficient and adequate to prevent corruption and, above all, the mafia infiltration. For all these reasons, I think that the need to align the rules on procurement, on the construction and future management of the common Italian-French section, which we do not consider fit to meet the requirements of our Constitution, remains unsatisfied to date (even in some way, even in the last debate that we held, had been guaranteed). Even all the rules on safety at work, contained in the proposal for ratification in our examination and above all in the regulation - a very important part, therefore, which could also have very serious consequences on the construction of the work and on the work itself - are in no way capable of meeting the constitutional requirements. On the contrary, in some respects, through this ratification we risk putting into our system rules that are absolutely not in line with the constitutional principles. For all these reasons we shall vote in favour of the question referred for a preliminary ruling and the request not to proceed with the examination of the Senate Act 2551. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u61	I put to the vote the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senator Scibona and other senators. It's not approved. MARTELLI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u62	Mr President, what I would like to say, for starters, is that we are quite tired of always hearing the usual lies about the realization of the Turin-Lyon railway line; and they are lies because every time something false is offered to us: I have drawn up a small list, not exhaustive, which I will now explain to you. Firstly, there is no Corridor 5 Lisbon-Kiev. And it doesn't exist anymore, because Portugal and Ukraine have been called out. So let's stop calling it the Lisbon-Kiev line, because it doesn't exist, except in someone's mind. Secondly, the integrated rail system, the so-called Trans-European transport network (TEN-T), does not at all envisage the creation of new lines - at most it provides for the standardization of standards - and this is the second bala that is constantly being told in this House. Thirdly, it is not true that freight traffic needs a new railway line, and this has already been extensively demonstrated. Even the Politecnico di Torino, to which it has been asked to elaborate an appraisal, has said first of all that this line will never go in balance; that it must that the traffic passengers and goods increase from ten to 40 times to the current one in order to succeed to reach saturation; moreover, even to saturation, it must be said that the line is not profitable and, finally, that it is true that there would be a slight decrease of the operating costs for the lower slope and the lower quota to reach, but the new railway line should be cooled. This is the famous "genius" you never talk about. The temperature in the heart of the tunnel would be so high that it would constantly require the use of air conditioners, whose operating cost is several million euros per year. And this happens because no "genius" has thought that the deeper you go, in the area of contact between two tectonic plates, the more the temperature increases. Poor geologists too, because no one listens to them! Let's go on: is it really important to go from Turin to Lyon by train, taking less than an hour? These arguments are the same that led two large airlines, in the 1960s, to think of building a new plane, the Concorde, which was born exactly with the philosophy of traveling the stretch between New York and London and that between New York and Paris in a shorter time, because at that time there was a material need to transport important documents from one side to the other. Who killed the Concorde? Some say he was killed by the only incident in Paris, but in reality the Concorde was killed by one very simple thing: the fax. At one point, the need to transport documents from one end of the hemisphere to another failed, because it was easier to fax them and, therefore, no one wanted to spend all that money... [[Brusio]] Mr President, could you make a minimum of silence? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, please, I ask you to suspend the discussions or to move elsewhere. The Concorde, therefore, was killed by fax. In the same way, in an era in which there is dematerialization of the economy and, therefore, the non-necessity of the material displacement of the people, we continue to think of doing this type of railway lines, all the more so since it has been said and redone until the boredom - and not from me, but from the technicians - that it is not possible to send passenger trains to 300 kilometers per hour and freight trains one kilometer long on the same line, being not possible to guarantee the safety of the same line. Moreover, no one does the following simple observation: a high-speed and fully loaded train spends 91 percent of its energy to move itself, i.e. the train, and only 9 percent of its energy to move passengers. This is not an intelligent use of energy, because most of it is used to move the medium itself. Moreover, the forecasts of passenger traffic on that line tell us that it will never go to saturation for what concerns the passengers and, to the maximum, it will be able to go to saturation for the goods, not before 2040 and to the realization of a whole series of conditions. So, in the face of a crisis of world trade and the failure of the sixth largest shipping company, what sense does it have to think of a work of goods transport totally released from the world context? Of course it doesn't make sense. We must also say one more thing: let us think about freight transport. Do you remember? There are no railway wagons for high-speed freight, nor are they in the studio: they go to 90 or, at most, to 120 kilometers per hour. At the moment you enter time tracks within a route alternating means that should go to 300 with others that should go to 90, explain to me where the economics of the operation is. Of course he's not here. You should also explain to me why a product that arrives by ship from China taking a few weeks of time and traveling at 20 knots, or about 37 kilometers per hour, suddenly should recover the lost time by jumping on a train and being transported at high speed, although assuming the existence of high-speed wagons that are nowhere. There's no logic in this operation. To Mr. Matteo Renzi, a serial ballist who goes to Europe to raise his voice saying that he may veto it after he has voted 148 times out of 148 in favour of every measure of the European Commission, I would like to ask the following question. Since he is going to mourn misery for a few hundred million, why are you going to commit billions of resources to this work that will never pay back? Eurotunnel teaches: it has never been in balance and has never produced a penny of profit; it is continuously recapitalised by France and Great Britain. And yet, he's in full saturation. This work does not work from any point of view. Before we find ourselves with the white elephant, it would be better to stop and not engage resources in this. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u63	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u64	Mr President, once again, as has already been said, we are talking about the famous tunnel. It is interesting to make some more general reasoning, net of yet another act for the realization of this work. We constantly wonder if the company is worth the expense. We are talking about the economic and financial plan of this work, we are talking about money, because it is something that many people are accustomed to in this Parliament and, above all, in the Government. Let's see if the money we spend has a benefit to the community. As we have said so many times, the historical line is not saturated; indeed, it is far below its maximum capacity. Above all, if I am well informed (and, to be honest, I think I am) the old tunnel of the Frejus has been adapted for the PC 80 gauge of the large trains carrying goods. EUR 400 million has been spent on adjusting the gauge and passing the large trains carrying various goods. We spent EUR 400 million on adapting a tunnel that already existed. Now we want to spend a very high amount of taxpayers' money on reducing freight transport time by 20 minutes. If we take - I am Campania and I think of the following example - a tomato grown in Novara and we take it to France, we save twenty minutes. We spend 6 billion euros to save twenty minutes in the life of a tomato. It's no small thing. In fact, it seems very important to me to do French pizzas well. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Since we want to do these things, we should make a broader argument. It is said that the tunnel is used to transport Italian goods to France. However, most of the goods - as has already been said - travel by ship, and leave out the fact that the second largest freight company in the world has failed. Perhaps there are problems in world transport. We have said several times that goods will travel on fibre and on the Internet and that with 3D printers the cargo transport will probably decrease. Net of this, most of the goods arrive not in Italy, but in the great ports of the North, like those of Rotterdam and Amburgo. To transport the goods to France, in a purely theoretical line we compete with those large ports. We then take the port of Genoa, which is closed. We want to spend several billions to make a dam of overflow, which will be built on a swing of 30 meters. Imagine a mountain of 30 meters to widen the port of Genoa. The goods will arrive, therefore, at the port of Genoa and we will then make a nice hole in the Apennines, the third pass, to take them to the interport of Novara, from where they will leave with the train to go to France. Perhaps bringing goods from Rotterdam or Hamburg directly to France will take less time. Then we could use the Italian freight tunnel. But if we want to use it only for Italian goods, it is clear and evident that the tunnel is useless, since we have already adapted that of Frejus. If these are the situations we're thinking about, would you like to explain to us what the hole is for? That's the real drama. Then there are also technical aspects: we read in the report that the final draft was approved in February 2015. As I have said several times in this House, before I was a senator, I was a public works designer, so I wonder: how did they approve a definitive project if the geognostic tunnel - to be clear, for example, would be geological surveys - has not yet been completed? Consider that as a geognostic survey we made a tunnel six meters wide and seven and a half kilometers deep. So, it would be interesting to understand how a project was approved without having the investigation. I repeat, why are we spending all that money? Well, now it comes to my mind: perhaps the government fell in love with that gentleman who, with a purse, said: The economy spins with you. Spend the money, so we do the good of the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u65	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u66	Mr President, this is a twenty-year issue. The fact that you have not managed to complete this work certainly does not depend solely on the resistance - as has often been called - of the citizens of the valley, who have simply been imposed without any dialogue a useless work, supported by dozens of clamorous bullies that we have already heard in part of the speeches of our colleagues. And just remember one in particular: this work would have served to transport goods to 300 kilometers per hour in the gallery - let alone - on a line that, precisely because of the initial question that had to be straight, should have been done when the original line had saturated and never saturated. I was saying you guys haven't been able to do anything in the last 20 years. Even Abbot Faria, when digging the tunnel to escape from the island of Montecristo, would certainly have taken less than you. Why did you do that? Because you have changed the project several times; because your international partners were not very convinced; because this work costs too much objectively; because the problem in Italy is basically the corruption that plagues administrations, projects, your parties, this Government and the previous one still. You took it out on a people. One time a journalist asked me how much it was permissible for Valsusini to rebel against an opera. But the real question would have been: how much is it permissible for a state with arrogance and demeaning any democratic relationship to put its hands on a territory and impose a work based on false assumptions? It is yet another injustice, because since 2004 I have been following this incredible and unheard-of project of violence against a people to whom you have never even had the courage to speak. You've had the gentlemen who've been paid to do nothing as observers. You've done armchairs. This is history, and I see years of violence and abuse. The last case is against an activist, a 70-year-old citizen. There are people who have manifested peacefully and who find themselves in criminal proceedings or driven out of their homes. This state has been able to act like this - we have been telling you for many years - for useless work, and we see how it behaves in this House. This House is demeaning. I remember the last ratification before this unconstitutional proposal of agreements and protocols that are always missing pieces: you have contingency times, violating Article 72 of the Constitution, because it had to be rushed. But it's an inevitability compared to what we've seen since the reform. It's your classic M.O. There's never a dialogue. There is never a chance of confrontation in this House, to understand why to throw away tens of billions, when the country goes deeper, in a work that you are never able to do. You started with a geognostic tunnel and then you changed plans. The people of Valsosino have asked you in every possible way and not only, and they have managed to get out of the Valley, to involve the country and other international subjects, even the French, who have opposed all their criticism of the project. The problem of great works, however, we know it: administrators, politicians and entrepreneurs must eat money often mafia, not always but often, because 90% are mafia. We went to talk to the chief prosecutor of the time, Caselli, to explain that the agreement gave up the sovereignty of the territory. And this is another thing that you do all the time: give in to non-national interests monetary sovereignty, territorial sovereignty, debt. The multinationals can come and drill us and we don't talk about what's waiting for us with the new reform, with the cause of government supremacy, so anyone can come to your house and say that, because Renzi wants to do something, you can't fight it and maybe he'll tunnel you in the house or plant a drill in the living room. Can it be a joke? No, and it is not because when we went to Caselli to show him the criticalities of the first agreement, the problems were based on a transfer of sovereignty such that one went to fall under French jurisdiction that did not have the appropriate anti-Mafia laws. And who knows why this aspect appeared so greedy to the lobbying of politicians and businessmen. She was gracious, because they continue to arrest members of clientele areas related to PD, center-right and center-left. Today's news is published in the Newspaper Fact that some arrests have been carried out for the Bridge on the Strait. We're still talking about the Bridge on the Strait. And in the title we talk about the fixed ideas of the bosses of 'ndrangheta to make money with the great works, and we cite the Bridge and the Salerno-Reggio Calabria. 23 arrests for the third pass were reported in October. It is then useless for Mr. Stefano Esposito or someone else to tell us that, on the TAV Turin-Lion project, things have been done well. It's just a matter of time: it's a countdown. Sooner or later the investigation will arrive, as are now arriving in Turin the Court of Auditors' investigations on the discoveries of the holes left by the PD administration. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So, it's only a matter of time and time doesn't play in your favor, because this work - I tell you - will never be done. You will continue to devastate the Valley, to destroy the landscape for a useless tunnel. I don't know if you're gonna play a playground later, but we're not gonna see this play. It is useless to smile because we will meet here again, maybe in five years (or maybe I will see you, in twenty years, from outside, because I have only two mandates), and this work will never be done. 11:17 a.m. (Following AIROLA). Maybe there will still be Stefano Esposito with the white beard that will continue to go to the Valley to explain the reasons for the project. Today in Milan - another important issue - Sala complains and asks for the intervention of the army to ensure security. Too bad that the military and the Alpine, which we often see at the corners of the squares, cannot guarantee public order, because they are not authorized, or can do so but very limited. Now, I'd like to point out that in the valley you've placed an unheard-of force squadron that should be on the ground. The Forces of Order, therefore, among other things deprived of the necessary resources - a problem with which this State fills its mouth, starting with Gasparri who stands up every time to request them - we begin to remove them from the Valley and put them back in the streets in Turin or in the prosecutions to follow the investigations for corruption. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let's start doing this instead of sending the military, which are useless. In fact, you purposely create a social conflict. You do it on purpose. And that's what I'm most indignant about: it's really shameful in this country that you always solve everything with the Forces of Order. Are the workers coming and protesting? Do they protest students? Manganellate. But I'm not talking about subversive groups. I'm not talking about thick frames. I am talking about ordinary citizens who have suffered injustices and who did not deserve them. They deserved a dialogue. They deserved to express, in the last twenty years, their reasons with a serious confrontation on real topics, and not on the chatter and certainly not on the possibility, about which the good Cota spoke with green underwear, to give imagination to the trade. But who knows what trade would have been created between Turin and Lyon with the saving of an hour of time! This is not how businesses are created, with a useless line. I think of the Kiev-Lisbon corridor: as if we were in the days of Dr. Zivago, as if we really took the train from Kiev to get to Lisbon. That's bullshit, bullshit you really exasperated us with. The people, suffocated by the constant pressure of the Forces of Order, by the repression of any dialogue, were surrounded and persecuted. They're things that really hurt, because in a normal country you shouldn't see them. And in fact, in other countries they don't happen. Mr President, I did not have much to say, because we have said everything. We've been repeating the same thing for 20 years. The only hope is that this work will not be done, because you are in no way capable of ending it, and finally free yourself a valley from a police state that cannot exist. And it cannot exist when our cities, on the other hand, lack resources. Of course, then it is the fault not only of politics, but also of the unions that keep the law enforcement forces in the offices. But you have a real responsibility that weighs on you. And I assure you that, when we find ourselves here, or out of here, and this work has not been carried out, you will have to admit that you have been truly sorry, that you have been shamefully exclusive servants of a corrupt class, of administrators, of projects, of multinationals and of a European power that now guides you as puppets. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u67	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u68	Mr President, I would like to talk about railways, but first of all I want to say that the Northern League Group is in favour of this ratification, because it is in favour of modernity. I say to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, who have all my sympathy, that I find it quite bizarre that they come to Switzerland to admire that great work that is Alp Transit. Alp Transit is not an excavation located in the village of Heidi, but it is the largest railway work realized in Europe; a 57 kilometer hole, one of the most extraordinary works that we have all exalted, which, however, outside the Italian borders is fine, but within our borders is no longer good. I can understand that there is some confusion in our country from this point of view. Contrary, in fact, to what someone else has done (as I said before), we have invested exclusively on the high speed and not on the rest of the railway system. In fact, today the clear representation of our country is that we are extremely competitive with regard to high speed, in the international and European context, but we are at the last place, probably, in the field of local public transport. That is the truth: we have not made any investments. But the Italians today do not ask, as the CEO of RFI says, who knows what great work. They want clean, punctual and safe trains. But modernity also passes through high capacity and high speed and - as I said - I find it bizarre to exalt projects made outside our country by Italian companies, with great success, and then to say that in our home they are not good. In our home we need to clarify certain philosophies and certain visions regarding the railroad. I believe that we all agree that if we want to remove road traffic and carry it on iron, we must create the conditions for this to happen. Someone better than us, in Europe, says that those who sow roads collect traffic: this is the truth, so they do important works and this is the philosophy that we want to inspire when we program these works. At this moment, in our country there is a bit of confusion fueled by this Government, which is quite confused on the subject of railways. Let me explain: I find the attempt to put together ANAS and RFI quite daring and complex and shows that the Commission is in a confusing state, so much so that, Mr. Government representative, you abandoned the privatisation of the State Railways a few months ago because there was no similar opinion among the various Ministries. Minister Delrio, as reported in the Stenographic Report, stated in the Commission that the privatisation of the railways in our country was an opportunity to relaunch and develop (he said), but the next day - or the previous one, I no longer remember - the Minister of the economy candidly declared that the privatization of the railways was only a system for cashing (he said). So, get on with it! From our point of view, marrying the philosophy for which those who sow roads collect traffic, we have to look at the countries that know how to do the projects seriously, we have to realize the railways and do it under certain conditions and it is quite clear that privatization and all the actions that go on the great system of railway transport are an opportunity of relaunching and development for our country. Now, if I look at the planning at the moment of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport in the context of Minister Delrio's project with regard to railway infrastructure, I am very concerned because, as I said, there is a great confusion, before which, at this point, I must break a spear in favour of what my colleagues of the 5 Star Movement support. In fact, it is quite clear that if strategic works are carried out, as could be AlpTransit, TAV or anything else, there must be an integrated system that favours the conditions both for the transport of goods and for the high-speed transport of passengers that must consequently be hooked up. We have repeatedly encouraged this Government to ensure that the suppliers to the great Alpine tunnels, both in our country and outside, are carried out as quickly as possible. In fact, if we want to receive those 700 trains a day that could vomit from AlpTransit we have to be prepared, my colleague Della Vedova: we have to be addresses, which are the railways that go up on the eastern shore of Lake Maggiore, we have to upgrade the Milan-Chiasso line and we have to be addresses also for the TAV. This in order to try to be a minimum competitive with the 73 kilometers of dock that there are to the port of Rotterdam, that is with an integrated transport system between goods, railroads and freeways of the sea that at this moment sees our Country in a favorable condition, after the Suez Canal has been doubled, allowing us to transport goods towards the east with more speed and with an economy of scale. There is no doubt that we will never be totally competitive with Rotterdam, but we could be partially competitive: we can intercept an important part of the market and not just say it ourselves. I am still addressing my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement. They also know very well that the Swiss Confederation has put important funding on the plate so that our country will decide to make, with Hupac or with other systems, an integrated system in which the goods can go down south and be transported on the highways of the sea. We must therefore pursue this philosophy of integrated transport and the modernization of transport, first of all, Mr Undersecretary, and try to make it clear within the Government. You presented a bill to privatise the railways and then you went back because there was a misunderstanding between the various ministries: agree on what death you want to die on. It is a fact that, from a strategic point of view, our country must absolutely continue in the wake that you have inherited from previous governments and that you must carry on, but it is equally evident that you must do so with determination, which unfortunately you are not demonstrating that you want to do. Our concern is that the discourse of the fusion between RFI and ANAS is coming forward and we ask ourselves what will be prevalent: will be prevalent the thought of ANAS, that is, that in transport on rubber is the winner of this competition, or the philosophy of RFI or of who at this moment is inside the railways, that we still wait to understand what it will be? What's it gonna be? It leaves us in uncertainty. We merely analyse in an aseptic way what other countries, in Europe and not only, are doing, namely that the railways have to do them and with certain characteristics. And don't tell me, Mr Cioffi, that Alpine tunnels are being made because the lines are saturated: the Gotthard line was not saturated at all, but you know very well that in the transport system one thing is to circulate trains that are 2 kilometers long and one thing is to turn 4 trains that are 500 meters long. They're two completely different things. If we do the basic tunnels of the great Alpine passes, it is because we want lowland railways within the Alps. This is also the philosophy of the transport system, because otherwise we would not be competitive. Freight trains do not have to go 300 kilometers per hour, they must have certain technical and technological characteristics: this is the difference between high speed and high capacity; on which perhaps there is still some confusion in someone's head. These are the conditions on which we must work and the prerogatives are there. I repeat, as I will say in my explanation of vote, that we are in favour: the only concern is that the government is also in a confused state about this game. For our part we intend to continue in this direction, because it is a project you have inherited and it is a serious project with which our country has presented itself in the European context and, if I am not mistaken, by 31 December we must collect 40% of European funding, because otherwise we also play these. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u69	I greet students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo "Angelo Maria Ricci" of Rieti, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u70	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scibona. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u71	Mr President, I will reply to Senator Crosio in more detail in the Commission. But I have to say briefly that the case of the Gottardo is absolutely another thing compared to the line Turin-Lion: there are total differences both logistic and transportistic regarding the goods and however no member of the Movement 5 Star Group has ever done not even a tweet of praise of this great Swiss work (remember: Swiss, because someone still has some doubts) and the only thing in which actually the Italian State excels, if we speak of great works, is not programming, but corruption and arrests, unfortunately. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Returning to us, I must admit that the temptation to insult you for twenty minutes was great, but it would have confirmed the hypothesis that the 5 Star Movement can only insult and not propose and enter into the merit of things, saying no to everything, while it is not so and we have always demonstrated it. I prefer, therefore, to say things that you must listen to, even if many are not even present in this House. However, I must start without addressing the name of "honorable" (as is our usual, on the other hand), because I believe that today, with the obvious problems that the country has, shocked by floods, earthquakes and anything else, there are still too many hot bodies around our territory, while here we do political actions to carry out a great work, probably for fear that the next government mandate will take away from some friends the prebende that have been promised. That is useless to say, because you know it very well. All the important measures are firm, they are based only on the words of the Premier and have never been followed by acts, as always: mere words remain that they know to be mocked. In this endless history, we have been waiting for months for the outcome of the referendum of December 4, without the country having anything real to move on: all this immobility only for an idea, wrong, that has nothing to do with democracy. That said and confirmed, therefore, the "dishonest senators," this move is highly inappropriate. In spite of me and with the discomfort of having to sit in the same room in which you are in, I review some critical points, mostly even unconstitutional or, if we want, scams of these treaties. Of course, you will ratify them without even blinking. There are two: the Agreement and the Additional Protocol which, according to the Agreement, were to be approved separately, while you were approving them together. First point. The European Union has not defined full participation in the project, nor has it quantified its funding percentage, so there is indeterminate cost. As specified in Article 1 of the 2012 Agreement, the Agreement itself does not constitute one of the additional protocols provided for in Article 4 of the 2001 Agreement mentioned above and, in particular, does not have as its object the opening of the final work of the Italian-French Joint Party, which will require the approval of a separate optional additional protocol (i.e. separate), taking into account, in particular, the final participation of the European Union in the project (Article 1 (3)). The CIPE Resolution of 20 February 2015, n. 19, reaffirms, on the fourth line of the premises, that the start of the final work of the Italian-French Joint Party remains, in fact, subject to the approval of an additional protocol to the Agreement of 29 January 2001 and must take into account, in particular, the final participation of the European Union in the project. The Grant agreement under the connecting Europe facility (CEF), concluded on 25 November 2015 between the European Commission, through the Innovation and networks executive agency (INEA), the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and the Ministère de l'Ecology du développement durable et de l'energie, allocates a contribution of about 814 million euros, against expenditure planned for approximately 1.9 billion euros, all to be realized by 31 December 2019. The activities to which the European Union has assigned the current contribution concern both preliminary and final works, but the final works will hardly be completed, taking into account that in the Grant agreement, Article 1, paragraph 3, specifies that the ongoing studies and geological surveys will be completed by opening the way for the preparatory work and the start of the main civil works, which will continue beyond 2019 until their completion. Therefore, the action is an intermediate phase of an overall infrastructure investment in this region. It is therefore clear that the programme on which the European Union has made the contribution consists of a drastically lower expenditure, of about 1.9 billion, than that necessary for the realization of the plan of the cross-border section of the new railway line, the cost of which, according to the Protocol object of the bill of ratification under consideration, is estimated to be around 8.3 billion euros. It is therefore clear that the European contribution granted under the Grant Agreement does not define the final participation of the European Union in the project, since it does not concern the overall implementation of the project. In fact, any future future participations of the European Union will only occur as a result of the following steps: allocation of funds in the European Union budget; subsequent issue of calls dedicated to the financing of large cross-border transport infrastructures; presentation by the Italian and French Governments of specific applications for financing; eventual acceptance of such applications and allocation of the related funding. All this needs to be spread over the forthcoming legislation of the European Parliament, so that we can have a little more money that is obviously not there. None of the above mentioned passages is guaranteed or insurable to date, as no European institution has the possibility of binding the Union's budgets for the future. That said, it follows that to date the conditions explicitly required by the 2012 Agreement and the CIPE Resolution 19/2015 do not exist, under which the EU is required to participate definitively in this project. Therefore, as stated, it is clear that at present a ratification of the 2015 Agreement and the Additional Protocol of 2016 which is contained therein are in direct conflict with the 2012 Agreement and the CIPE Resolution 19/2015. Yet you don't care, but we already knew this: after the legal monster of the "schiform" Woods, for you these are nonsense, quisquilie, pinzillacchere. Turning then to the punctual examination of the texts, Article 5 of the Agreement provides for the possibility of making amendments to the Agreement of 30 January 2012, ratified by Law No 71 of 23 April 2014, in the part governing the contract commission, composed of twelve members appointed by half by each party with exchanges of letters between the same parties - that is: can you appoint the commission by sending you letters? Are you kidding me? - thus allowing any proposed amendments to escape the evaluation and subsequent parliamentary ratification. The constitutional reform partially abolishes bicameralism, which was perfect, but this agreement directly abolishes the whole of Parliament: amendments will be made with exchanges of letters. This is really ridiculous, in the face of the parliamentary Republic and democracy! The parties that can be modified through exchanges of letters intervene, inter alia, on relevant areas, such as the criteria for the selection of applications and tenders, the validity of the elimination of applications and offers, as well as the material and financial means available to the contract commission, necessary to allow them to function properly, or, as they say, where there is the fat, where there is money and where one can do a favor to a friend rather than another, where one divides the cake. Needless to deny it: it happened for the third pass, where they were pinched with their hands in the jam, and it will happen here sooner or later (so far it went well for someone); but, as we will see later, this time provided them precise tools to hide and not even be identified while they go to the collection. Going further, in Article 6, completely inappropriately, the transfer to the public promoter of the role of infrastructure manager of the historical line Bardonecchia-Modane and of the section related to the interconnections of Avigliana and Bussoleno with the new line is reiterated. In practice, you are giving a company under French law a section of an Italian line, currently under management of RFI: in addition to the sovereignty of the nation, infrastructure is also giving foreign. For what reasons? Why does a line that to the border is now under the control of RFI have to go under the public one instead? Why? What are the rules that will have to be complied with? Who will then guarantee the security of that line? After wanting to make Valsusini citizens sick with a devastating work, which still affects the important slopes of the mountain, do you also want to devastate them and annihilate them with railway accidents? Let us move on to the Protocol, the second part of the Agenda Agreement today. In Article 2, paragraph 2, an update of the construction costs is foreseen at the end of the work. The purpose of this update is to make the final adjustment of the deviations recorded, to be verified annually by means of a reference index defined in the Protocol (Annex, point 3), which consists of an indicator of price change referring to the different components of the cost of the work. This index, called INLTL, must be determined analytically in accordance with the calculation methods laid down in the Protocol (Annex, point 3.1). As regards the arrangements for updating costs on the French side, the Protocol specifies in detail, for each category of expenditure, the relevant reference index taken on, specifying its type, source and whatever else. But, you know, in France, they're accurate, but we're a little caciaron. In fact, for the costs of the Italian side the protocol does not contain any definite reference, limiting itself to generic and ambiguous indications such as: For the Italian part, similar indices are used which include the same components on the basis of the Italian indices (Annex, point 3.1). It is still expected that: For ISTAT, the measured indicators correspond as much as possible to the INSEE indicators and in case of availability, to the equivalent indicators with a merely lower level of precision. What are we talking about? It is clear that in the current wording of the Protocol the criteria for updating the costs of the work on the Italian side are essentially indefinite and I am surprised that the Budget Commission has been able to endorse this. This inaccuracy, this precise and conscious indeterminateness created by art to profit from the work causes a considerable prejudice to the correct application of the distribution of costs at the end of works between Italy and France and, in addition, creates the basis of high risks of future economic and legal disputes between the two countries. I would like the rapporteur and the President of the Budget Committee, as well as all the great supporters of this work, to be called on to pay in full for all the extra costs due to this indeterminateness that they have endorsed today! And it is not excluded that, in case the 5 Star Movement goes to the government, this does not happen. So, don't hit the spot, but stay in the area, because we'll come looking for you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let's move on. In article 2 it is specified that the cost of the cross-border section of the new railway line is 8,3 billion euros, certified pursuant to article 18, paragraph 1, of the Agreement of 30 January 2012, and expressed on the date of currency of January 2012. However, Article 18 provides that the estimated cost of the final project shall be certified by an external third party. In the Protocol, however, there is no reference to the certification of costs by an external third party. In any case, the certification produced by Tractebel Engineering is far from definitive and established, taking into account that on page 15 of the certification document it is stated: On the other hand, if the alternative solution is chosen, future studies will make it possible to clarify the project of the new works and works modified and to refine the current estimate of the cost and timing of construction, thus generating a further indeterminate on the costs themselves of the work and on their distribution between Italy, France and the European Union and, ultimately, on the state budget for the coming years. In fact, for the next generation. To confirm the approximate estimate of the costs of the work, it seems opportune to point out also what asserted in the technical note prepared from the Ministry of Infrastructures and the transports in reply to the observations of the rapporteur, in which it is clarified that "eventual increases of the certified cost previewed from Article 2 of the Additional Protocol of the Agreement of 24 February 2015, will be subject to specific normative measures." But you still calculated the covers. Making false cards or closing your eyes to approve this infamous ratification does not really honor you. Here we favour those who inflate the costs, we favour those who lucrate on the great works, we favour friends of friends, omitting, hiding and letting us witness the umpteenth melina in the Chamber: from evil to worse. In addition, Article 2 also states that: In order to estimate the estimated cost at the end of the work, the costs relating to the certified cost and established on the date of the January 2012 currency shall be updated from that date on the basis of an annual reference rate of 1.5%. Therefore, it should be deduced that the cost of EUR 8.3 billion, once updated, will inevitably exceed EUR 9 billion. To this we add that the rate of 1.5% is only estimated, maybe it will be 3%, with an increase in the excessive costs, which, as I said, I hope in the future can be paid with your money, not with those of the citizens, who unfortunately have less and less. In Article 3 it is provided that: "In application of Article 2 of the Agreement of 24 February 2015, the Parties undertake to cooperate in order to prevent any risk or attempt of mafia infiltration in the context of the conclusion and execution of contracts relating to the implementation of the cross-border section" and to give the Intergovernmental Commission the task of working on the development of a regulation of anti-mafia contracts. That is why, in a very singular way as inappropriate (to use euphemism), both the Agreement and the Protocol produce international legal effects, i.e. the drawing up of a contract regulation before the aforementioned acts are ratified and in force in the Italian legal order, thereby ensuring that Parliament examines an act, the regulation, even before the sources of the same act are ratified. Are you aware that we are faced with consequential acts that come into force on the basis of each other, even if not yet in force? This does not happen here, because all have already been written and we are ratifying them at the same time. This is a precedent, as well as an abomination, because no one had yet arrived at such an operation. But you know, for the senators of this legislature everything is okay: the important thing is to serve the leader, the law doesn't matter anymore, it only counts to secure a warm chair for the future. But the wind will change, don't worry. Be very careful. Finally, with regard to the Regulation, it should be noted that it concerns the definition of the rules applicable in order to prevent and counter attempts to infiltration mafia and to overcome the problem of the impossibility of carrying out the anti-mafia controls relating to contracts, detected by several parties, for example by the President of ANAC, Raffaele Cantone. However, it is clear that the ratification procedure is inadequate to make the Italian anti-mafia rules relating both to public contracts concluded by the public promoter and to sub-contracts and sub-trust operations operational by means of the Regulation instead of amending the Treaties. [[Recalls of the President]] Can I have a few more minutes? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Just a couple, 'cause he's been talking for 20 minutes. Unfortunately, Italian citizens will pay for decades the consequences of this act, so now, two more minutes will not be many. Let's go further: while you here, shortsighted compared to what happens outside and guided by the mantra of those who want to get rich, vote this work without knowledge of the cause, here is that our cousins of the Ultralp are once again a little more intelligent, because they go to specify all the passages very well. On 10 June 2016, the first President of the French Court of Auditors sent a communication to Prime Minister Manuel Valls on the management of the Agence de Finance des Infrastructures de Transport de France (AFITF) for the financial year 2009-2015. In the report, President Migaud was strict in relation to the management, governance and accounting situation of the Agency, which was responsible for allocating the public funding necessary for the implementation of the major national infrastructures, including the French quota of Turin-Lyon. In particular, the Court has evidenced that the management of the AFITF will be even less sustainable from the financial point of view in case of realization of new major projects such as the Turin-Lion line, considering that the financing of the project, beyond the hypothesis of European co-financing, is, in terms of budget, largely outside the scope of the Agency, with reference to 2019 that beyond in time. Beware that the intervention of the transalpine accounting judiciary is part of a path of progressive and radical rethinking of the policies of the railway transport in France, that it has reached its climax in recent times: 22 April 2013 the French government has in fact published the recommendations of the White mission, charged from the Executive to draw up guidelines for the future of the transports on iron, from which the disinvestment from new lines to high speed is evident. I wonder why. Mr President, I have a few more pages to read, so I would ask you to hand over the rest of my speech so that it can be published in the Reports of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. I remind you, you still have one minute, Senator Scibona. SCIBONA (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. In order not to dread colleagues and to prevent the progress that the House will certainly want to make, I would like to end with the hope - although I do not believe it anymore - that the Senate will block this international legislative abomination. Italy needs many other things, compared to this line, which has no sense of being realized, because realizing it would remove the possibility to be maintained and updated if necessary, according to the real needs of the country. I therefore hope that someone will put a hand on his conscience and say no. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u72	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u73	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u74	Mr President, I will make a brief reply and, if you will allow me, I would like to make a few brief arguments, asking for the written text of my speech to be published in the Reports of today's sitting. As I said, in presenting my report, today we are dealing with the ratification of an agreement between Italy and France concerning the construction of the Turin-Lyon line. The new line represents a fundamental step towards modernising our country, it is shared between us, France and the European Union. Everything that has been said is obviously the result of different opinions. This House and the whole of Parliament have had the opportunity to discuss the work, its usefulness and its characteristics and, of course, it is difficult for opinions, when they are too different or pre-conceptually different, to collide in the acts, in this case an act of ratification of the agreement between two States. I would like to point out that the procedures adopted in this agreement have been widely adopted in other international treaties. Of course, France has applied them, consenting also to the assumption of the legislation of the country with which it realizes the agreement as prevailing with respect to its national legislation. I say this because anti-mafia legislation will enter into the regulation of the agreement, becoming an over-ordered part of it in relation to French legislation, and this has happened in the same way when it came to the creation of the Channel Tunnel or other infrastructure interventions that I do not want to mention now. The need for this work is well known and is that of linking the traffic of the goods to a European director with the highest intensity of production being not, the current line, adequate to enter in this field. Some of Europe's most industrialised areas are connected and the margins of economic growth in this operation, for those who want to see it objectively, are indisputable over the years. In fact, they are infrastructures that measure their validity in a historical perspective: if they were to measure it in the very short period, they would not have all this strategic scope. From the point of view of costs, I felt in the report that I made it clear: the Agreement provides for an overall contribution of around EUR 8.3 billion; Italy's share is about EUR 2.9 billion; the EU's share of assistance is about EUR 3.3 billion; France's share is about EUR 2.87 billion. The most important aspect of the Commission's work is the compatibility between the two laws and the assumption in current French legislation of all our anti-mafia rules. This, from the checks we have made in depth, corresponds exactly to reality. This work sees the setting up of a commission of prefectic nature, as happens for the certification anti-mafia in Italy, between the French prefect and that of Turin, commission that will operate on the basis of a regulation that becomes supranational norm. We believe that this ratification must be done in the given time, because this would allow us to be in line with European intervention and support.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u75	The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. The Presidency declares Amendment 1.3 inadmissible, as it does not have any real modifi cation, as well as Amendments Nos 1,103 to 1,110, as they are intended to make it conditional on the ratification of an agreement already signed. In relation to the amendments approved by the referee to meet the conditions laid down in Article 81 of the Constitution by the Budget Commission, proposals 3.10, 3.11, 3.12, 3.13, 3.14 and 3.15 are also inadmissible. We shall proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u76	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u77	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u78	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.1, which is essentially identical to Amendments Nos 1,100 and 1.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u81	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to reiterate that the amendments tabled represent the minimum trade union, because little can be done about a draft ratification law. They aim to give you the last chance to avoid this legal disaster. The question, as I said, is that the additional protocols must be approved separately from the actual agreement, and in a subsequent and subsequent manner, and that the costs of this work are not updated at a rate of 1.5% and there is no certainty of either the financing from Europe or what the final cost will be for the Italian Government. As far as the issue of anti-mafia legislation is concerned, it seems to me that, as I have already said, an inter-partes regulation cannot be considered as a law in force in a foreign country. You continue to argue that this legislation has been transposed; we will then see, when the gendarmerie has to pursue the Italian mobsters, how it will do.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u84	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u85	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators, which is essentially identical to amendments 1,100, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators, and 1.2, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.3 is inadmissible. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators, identical to amendment 1,101, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1,102, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators, up to the words'(b) '. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.5 are therefore excluded. Amendments 1,103 to 1,110 are inadmissible. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u86	Mr President, I am against identical amendments 2.1 and 2.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u87	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u88	Since no other amendments were tabled on Article 2 other than the deletion 2.1 tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators, identical to amendment 2.100, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators, we shall proceed to the vote on the retention of the article. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the maintenance of Article 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u89	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u90	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u91	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3.1, which is identical to Amendment No 3.100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We proceed with Amendment 3.1, which is identical to Amendment 3,100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. SCIBONA (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators, identical to Amendment 3,100, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. SCIBONA (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.2, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. SCIBONA (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.3, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3,101, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators, up to the word "previa". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder and amendments 3,102 and 3,103 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3104, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.105, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. SCIBONA (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.4, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.5, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators, which is essentially identical to Amendment 3106, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. SCIBONA (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.6, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. SCIBONA (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.7, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. SCIBONA (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.8, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators, up to the words "second period." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3.9 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 3,107, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. CERVELLINI (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,107, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.10 to 3.15 are inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.16 tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u92	Mr President, I am opposed to both of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u93	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u94	Having not been tabled on Article 4 other amendments than those deleted 4.1, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators, and 4,100, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators, we shall proceed to the vote on the maintenance of the article. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the maintenance of Article 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u97	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would just like to reiterate our Group's vote in favour of this measure, stressing that at this stage it would have been absolutely necessary for the Government to make its voice heard, even at European level, precisely in order to claim what I have said on behalf of the Group under general discussion. Unfortunately, the government is in a confusing state, but fortunately, it has inherited something good. It is good that you carry this ratification forward internationally, hoping that those who come after will succeed - and certainly succeed - in doing better.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u100	GAMBARO (AL-A). Mr President, I too am announcing my Group's vote in favour of the measure before us. This is an additional protocol to the Italian-French Agreement which had already been written on 29 January 2001 and ratified by Law No 228 of September 2002. Today the Agreement focuses mainly on the regulation, contracts and anti-mafia legislation, the certification of the costs of the work and the updating of the financial plan. Italy had undertaken to ratify the Agreement by January 2017, when the European Union set out a mandatory deadline for unblocking EU funding for the new railway line. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u103	CERVELLINI (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, over the past few weeks, a burst of arrests in two operations of the Carabinieri in Rome and the Guardia di Finanza in Genoa for alleged corruption in subcontracting contracts has once again shown what we of the Italian Left and SEL have always denounced: there is a wormhouse closely connected to the system of the great works, from the third Milan-Genoa pass, to the sixth macro lotto of the A3 Salerno-Reggio Calabria, the Mose and more. Among other things, tricks are often used; for example, the one used for the A3, Salerno-Reggio Calabria, which is announced the inauguration and the end of the work with the squalid trick to anticipate the end of the route. So we will inaugurate the end of Salerno-Reggio Calabria, but it is not true: it is a resounding false. In the past, faced with the responsibilities of the Government in the tentacular system of corruption throughout Italy, from high speed to highways (with the usual known involved, such as the Dominus Incalza, the superdirector of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, or Stefano Perotti, director of the works of the Metro C of Rome), we had asked for a net cut with the practices in use to permanently archive the objective law, mother of the twenty-year-old - and at the same time daily renewed - corrupting practices. On the same TAV I have intervened on several occasions: it is a work, like many others, carried out in contempt to the will of the citizens of the territories of the Val di Susa, even militarized (as has been said, it seems between Palestine and Israel). With the Italian Left-SEL we have always repeated this. It is a dangerous work, as well as expensive and useless for the future of the country, with devastating impact. I am referring, as an example only, to the thin dust of the excavations for the geognostic tunnel of the TAV yard in Chiomonte, in the now destroyed Val Clarea. Although everyone continued to deny worrying environmental data, such as the then Minister of Transport Maurizio Lupi in April 2014, during the discussion on the ratification of the Agreement between Italy and France to give the definitive green light, I highlighted the danger of the excavation in Val Susa, based on the data of the ARPA of Ivrea and the Turin Polytechnic, which left no doubt about the alarming values of uranium and asbestos. I personally requested the acquisition of this data, for careful evaluation, because we all feared for the health of workers and workers. Evidently, however, these are the human destinies and progressives, which at high speed overwhelm people's lives and go against nature. Not to mention the river of public money. In our proposals and critical evaluations at the DEF 2016, we had envisaged the possibility to recover about six billion euros, abandoning the useless and expensive F35 and the TAV Torino-Lion. No listening, however, and here we are today ratifying the final work of the cross-border section. Our contribution, at this point, could only be based on the amendments, which we have strengthened under certain conditions. We have asked for the full implementation of Italian legislation against the widespread phenomenon of the penetration into public works of organized crime; that any failure by public and private entities, from the establishment of TAV SpA until the date of entry into force of this law be verified in advance; that it is ensured in advance that the system of integration of the network guarantees full interoperability and cooperation between railways at national and European level; that the total costs of the project are increased, identifying those supported directly or indirectly by the State for the design, management of contractual relations and other works closely related to the project. We have also provided for the establishment of a technical table involving all the institutional actors involved and the local communities concerned, in order to check whether the conditions for the start of work related to the implementation of the cross-border section of the joint part are met. It is now clear, however, on the basis of the attitude and behaviour of the amendments being examined, that the Government has gone on, and will go on, totally indifferent to the legitimate dissent expressed several times by local authorities and citizens, trying to unscrupulously criminalise citizens, intellectuals and artists who oppose this absurd and diseconomic project. We reiterate that in this complex affair consultation remains a fundamental step towards concrete policies to protect the hydrogeological and landscape balance of the area. On the lack of comparison with local authorities and the associative world we have repeatedly asked the Government to respond, in particular on the environmental and economic sustainability of the entire project and the need to monitor the conventions and contracts for the realization of the works. I make one last appeal to reasonableness. It seems to me that, unlike in our country, in France, even if our media do not give it absolutely weight and information - as on many other important issues - there is a great deal of attention and great concern. I read, in fact, in several newspapers, that the controversial Turin-Lion line in France finds less and less consensus. It is no coincidence that the request of eight senators follows the opposite opinion expressed twice by the French Court of Auditors, according to which a possible decision by the State to continue with this project would be extremely worrying for the future balance of French public finances. Thus, such concerns resonate in the French Senate, where the foundations of the railway tunnel seem to become increasingly fragile. In Italy, vice versa, there is not the attention due, not only to environmental issues, but to the looting of the last few resources available to our State. Especially when we intervene on events of hydrogeological failure or on tragedies inherent to seismic phenomena (we are aware of the fact that we are not talking about something abstract, but of very dramatic concrete), we know that, in a context characterized by limited resources, politics makes choices so bad that it makes billions disappear in works that present great criticalities also from the point of view of effectiveness, that is, the need to achieve those savings and those additional transport capacities, and are confirmed in a truly stubborn way choices of this type. Well, beyond propaganda, this is done in view of the fact that there is no provision for resources - which should be allocated with certainty - for interventions in the areas affected by the earthquake and for initiatives concerning the ability to prevent such tragedies (and we know that today there are also technologies to do so but we need resources). As for the hydrogeological failure, I note that we are in the imminence of a winter season that has already begun to make its first dramatic signs felt. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u106	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, today we are called upon to vote on the draft law authorising the ratification and execution of as many as three acts (Agreement, Additional Protocol and Regulation), as well as the three annexes thereto, concerning the start of the work of the new Turin-Lyon railway line. It must be said that the first Agreement between Italy and France for the construction of this railway tunnel dates back to 29 January 2001: fifteen years have passed and we are still here to discuss a tunnel whose necessity has already been overcome in fact. If it took fifteen years for work to begin, when will it ever be done? Since you love predictions and lotteries, I think these acts are used to implement the betting world. As I said, these are three fundamental acts, which are formally incomplete and full of inconsistencies, as has been pointed out in the general discussion and in the question referred. Among the discrepancies I would like to stigmatize the fact that, for example, the Agreement provides for the possibility of making changes in the part governing the Committee on Contracts, composed of 12 members, with exchanges of letters - hopefully not with pigeons - between the same parties. In this way, any proposed amendments are allowed to escape the evaluation and subsequent parliamentary ratification. I would remind you that the parts that can be modified by means of exchanges of letters are relevant and rather delicate. Another critical element of the Agreement is the transfer to the public promoter of the role of infrastructure manager of the historical line Bardonecchia-Modane. Let me also say that I am very perplexed that the two representatives of the Italian and French Governments have signed the Agreement with the wrong date, i.e. a year's retrofix. If you are not able to write a date, let alone how you intervene on the contents of an Agreement that are really very complex. The second act, the protocol, previews to article 2, paragraph 1, that the parts fix the estimate of the cost of the work in 8.300 million euros. That cost should have been certified by a third-party company, as set out in the 2012 agreement, but there is no reference in the protocol to the certification of an external third party. Moreover the cost should be discounted, reaching the figure of 9.69 billion euros. To update the cost an index is used whose calculation methods are laid down in the protocol itself, but the interesting fact is that the protocol specifies in detail for the French side of expenditure its reference index for each category, while for the costs of the Italian side generic and ambiguous indications are used. I repeat further that the cost is an estimate, so it is not certain. Moreover in the certification produced on 3 May 2016 it is emphasized that it will not be possible to perfect the current estimate of the cost according to the chosen solution. It should be added that the grant agreement signed on 25 November 2015 allocates a contribution of 814 million euros against planned expenditure of 1915 million euros to be realized by 31 December 2019. Therefore, at present, there is no record of any further future EU funding. It is also interesting to note in Article 3 the commitment to prevent any risk or attempt at mafia infiltration, and to delegate to an intergovernmental committee the task of drawing up an extremely strict contract regulation. This Article 3 is a masterpiece in that, in a completely singular and improper manner, both the Agreement and the Protocol produce international legal effects, i.e. the drawing up of a contract regulation, even before the aforementioned acts are ratified and in force in the Italian legal order; by doing so, Parliament is allowed to examine an act, the regulation, even before the sources of the same act are ratified. The Regulation consists of 15 articles and two annexes, with the aim of defining the applicable rules. In order to prevent and counter attempts to infiltrate the Mafia, a binational structure is formed with two prefects (one Italian and one French) who will have to evaluate the titles of the companies on the basis of the Italian white list. We have seen how complicated white list management is also in Italy with all our databases, let alone when we will have to confront companies that are based abroad, all over Europe. So it will be mathematical that the white list will have a very low weight. Let us say immediately that transparency is not a priority, since the Director-General of TELT (tunnel euralpin Lyon Turin), i.e. the promoter of the TAV, has been referred to trial for omission of official documents, for not having made public the acts of the Observatory. We hope that the binational structure will be better than that of Expo; After many technical tables and controls, it turns out that the Chinese pavilions and Ecuador were built by companies that were clean, but in fact, as a result of the latest interceptions, infiltrated by the 'ndrangheta. Finally, we must remember the doubts expressed on 10 June 2016 by the President of the French Court of Auditors, pointing out that the French Agency for the financing of infrastructure has a budget far out of reach with respect to the cost of this work. After analyzing the form of the measure, which is very incomplete, I should enter into the analysis of the tunnel project, but this has already been done particularly well by my colleagues in general discussion. I would just like to remind you that 20 million cubic metres of rock with asbestos concentrations of 1 percent will be handled (to this end we know that the regulatory mechanism of these inerts is changing and the threshold is rising to be considered as non-dangerous materials), 7 million cubic metres of concrete and one million tons of steel. Not to mention the debt that future generations will have to pay, as this structure, as has been widely demonstrated, is not paid with use, therefore without any kind of utility for freight transport and modal transfer. The engineers wrote a beautiful book on the reasons for the no, sounds well this term; 150 reasons that disassemble point by point what they have told about this useless and expensive work, which no one has contested. The thing that I think is really fundamental is that it is very clear who wants this tunnel: who signs the acts has a name and surname, because time passes and when everyone will have the mathematical evidence of the perpetrated nefariousness, the responsible of the facts will have to be sure, will not be able to hide in the anonymity, will not be able to say that he has signed acts without his knowledge, that the accounts were wrong, that the facts could be read differently. Today the young Valsusini know and understand: The Internet has a long memory, they'll ask for explanations, and you'll have to give it an answer. I wouldn't want to be in your shoes then. Having said that, I am voting against my Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u107	I greet teachers and students of the Istituto Statale di Educazione Highere (State Institute of Higher Education) Luigi de' Medici in Ottaviano, in the province of Naples, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u110	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, first of all, I would like to point out that Berlusconi, Forza Italia and the centre-right have always been in favour of strategic works and infrastructure, as is the case with our examination. It is true that international trade is in crisis at the moment, but I think that we must work to ensure that Italians - our children, our grandchildren - can benefit from an economic recovery for which we must absolutely commit ourselves. The recovery is also linked to the realization of large infrastructures and productive investments such as this and not, vice versa, to what this Government too often does, in debt to the country to significantly increase current expenditure. I would also like to point out that this infrastructure benefits from a contribution from Europe. We complain that Europe is doing little - and that is true and we say it with conviction - but we must not miss out on the opportunities it gives us. Finally, I would like to point out that with this ratification that has been carried out in good time, we are making a good impression on Europe, and so we hope to protect some somewhat folkloristic events, such as removing the European flags or something else, which the Government is implementing these days. Mr President, for these reasons, which I have tried to summarise, Forza Italia will vote in favour of this ratification. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u113	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Mr President, with the ratification of this Agreement between Italy and France, we come to the conclusion of a long path - perhaps too long - for the realization of a work, not only defined strategic by the Italian Government and the French Government, but strongly wanted, as evidenced by the interest, the expectation and the economic contribution that has been put in place, also by the European Union. You often hear about the environment. In many parts we refer to this railway line as a work that damages the environment. The new Turin-Lion line is an infrastructure that protects the environment. I would like to remind you that every year, in the Alps, in the Italian-French part, 2.5 million heavy goods vehicles cross our roads, with an environmental impact that I do not think is necessary to remember. Europe - the one we like, the one that works also through the communications networks to build a true European sensitivity and not only the Europe of austerity - has among its objectives the modal shift: to remove trucks from the road and to make them travel by rail. This strategy also concerns Europe's commitments - which have been discussed in this House over the past few weeks - to reduce greenhouse gases. The objective that we set ourselves and that will be realized with the entry into operation of this new line will be to remove one million heavy vehicles from the Italian and French roads to the height of our Alps. The historical line of which much - perhaps too much - was intended, I must say with great foresight, by Camillo Benso of Cavour: it is a railway tunnel of 1871 that has given the opportunity to develop economic exchanges and social and cultural relations between Italy and France. Unfortunately, with all possible modernisation efforts, it is an infrastructure that does not have the possibility to carry out that function of removing the trucks from the road to put them on the railroad. Let us always remember that the interchange between the countries of the area (France, Spain and England), that is those that will be interested from the use of these infrastructures, is of 40 million tons per year and is worth 130 billion. This well explains why Europe, for once not forgetting Jacques Delors' White Paper, which spoke of infrastructure networks as the real realization of Europe, as the arteries through which relations really flow within Europe, has made a significant contribution of 40%. This is one of the most co-financed European works. Let me say one more thing. There is often talk of infiltrations into the great works, and what happens on the third pass is mentioned to the extreme. I would like to remind you that this work is not carried out with the general contractor, nor with those mechanisms that this House, the Democratic Party and many political forces with the new procurement code have decided to change by concluding these experiences. It is a work that is realized in another way; it is a pilot work. I also say to my colleagues, because I believe that sometimes a little national pride does not hurt, that France has agreed to apply the Italian anti-mafia legislation, transposing it to the activity of a third country (because France is a third country compared to us). This is a very important step forward in European relations and in understanding by other countries of the phenomenon of infiltration and crime, which as we know crosses borders. It is also a great success of the Italian Government and of all those who believe and believe in the possibility of carrying out great works keeping out organized crime and mafias and above all paying great attention to the achievement of the objectives in the established costs. This Agreement is the final certification of all this. Today is a very important day, because we are closing the approval process and putting the Italian-French mixed public promoter, with the presence of the European Union, under the conditions of finally being able to start the definitive design of this work and the construction of the yards. It is a historic day, because it finally puts us in step with the achievement of an objective: to say today that there will be a public work, a great international public work, whose costs are codified. We will no longer have to chase, as has often been the case in recent years, the unnecessary increase in costs to the detriment of taxpayers' money. Italian citizens today know that this work has a definite cost, reliable controls and legislation that will prevent organized crime from crossing the border and using more favourable rules, because anti-mafia rules are Italian ones and will ensure transparency. For this reason, I announce the Democratic Party's vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u116	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u117	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u118	I should like to inform you that, as you informed Parliament's groups on the short lines, tomorrow's Question Time sitting at 4 p.m., the Minister for Simplification and Public Administration, Mrs Marianna Madia, will answer questions on the following subjects: resumption of bargaining in the public service; reform of the discipline of public management. Appreciate the circumstances, let's move on to the speeches at the end of the session.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u121	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I come back to the question of hepatitis C. Having seen last Monday's episode of the transmission "Report" I learned that what happened was what we in Italy of the Values had announced when I spoke about the motion that we presented in the Senate to solve the problem of hepatitis C. The service appeared on TV showed people who go to India to buy the drug, because in Italy they are prevented from being treated, since at present, due to the costs, we can afford to treat only the most serious cases. We have also seen that there is a parallel trade in absolutely uncontrolled drugs and that brokers bring hepatitis C patients to India, some of which are convinced to buy a drug in street pharmacies and return to Italy with products that, in 75 percent of cases, are totally taroccated. That because of the high costs of a drug we are prevented in Italy from being able to treat the younger people, who are then those who transmit the disease, I think it is an absurd and discrimination that our country is working against people who consider serious B patients compared to those who already have cirrhosis or risk having to undergo an organ transplant. This is a profound social injustice, totally ethically unacceptable. I wonder why we always have to see journalists and other times judges take our place in guaranteeing justice to patients and people who suffer. We in the Italy of Values want our Government, as well as beating fists in Europe in order not to have to fully respect the budgetary limits that are imposed on us, to demonstrate the same strength in beating fists on the table against pharmaceutical companies that make people's health a purely speculative mechanism. For this reason, I hope that our motion, signed by my colleagues on the right, on the left and on the centre - it is not a political matter but a matter of justice - will finally be brought to the attention of this House. We need to talk about this and try to find a solution, which may not be the one suggested by the motion. Italy of Values believes in this battle and urges you all to promote, at the next Conference of Leaders, the inclusion of the examination of the motion in the calendar of proceedings. [[Applause from Senators Bencini, Dirindin and Floris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-724.ana.u122	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.42 a.m.
