ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 9.35 a.m. and resumed at 9.55 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u6	Let's resume our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u9	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I again request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u11	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u12	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:56 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u13	[[He stands up and with her the whole House.]] Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin our work, I am sure that I represent the common feeling of solidarity of this House with the people of the centres of the Marche and Umbria, who were struck last night and tonight by violent earthquakes. The epicenter of the earthquake was recorded in Macerata and mainly affected the villages of Visso, Ussita, Castelsantangelo sul Nera and Preci, where there are serious damage to the housing structures and historical, artistic and religious monuments. Once again, after only two months from the terrible night of August 24, the country is anxious about the fate of territories already hard put to the test by calamitous events. We would like to thank the women and men involved in the rescue machine, who immediately mobilized to assist the populations involved, to whom the Senate of the Republic renews sincere feelings of closeness and, again, solidarity with the people who had to sleep outside the house tonight. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u14	Madam President, we have our own way of showing solidarity with the earthquake victims: the decree-law to intervene for the people affected by the earthquake we are examining. It seems to me that the only concrete way to show that we are close to those who are suffering is by working seriously and quickly, being present in this House, by confronting, agreeing and not obstructing us. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u15	Thank you very much for your clarification.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u18	Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, today is 27 October 2016, the Council of Ministers claims to have approved the draft Stability Act on 15 October. It is a parliamentary custom that gives the first reading of the budget maneuver to one or the other House alternately, but the law stipulates that the Government should do so by 20 October. To my specific request in the Commission, the answer has been timely: to date, the Government has not submitted the bill of stability to the Chambers. That the government does not observe a law is not really educational, if you can say so. But the gravity lies in the fact that the European Union, with a letter from yesterday or from forwards, has spoken on the Draft Budget Document and focuses on certain magnitudes that involve the fundamental element of the law of stability, i.e. the balances of public finances. The government, always by journalistic means, says, speaking of a document that we do not know, that the maneuver remains as it is, but does not justify, nor can it do it because there is no document that must be justified. We are in an institutionally embarrassing situation, Madam President. I ask you to represent the President of the Senate with a request to immediately call the Government to the presentation of the law of stability. This is an unprecedented episode. Madam President, it is not a problem of the other House, but of this House together with the other. The President of the Senate has the right to request that the Government immediately present to the Chambers the law of stability or, if it decides to change something on the basis of the letter of the European Union, to do so by adapting it with a new Update Note to the DEF. Moreover, a new Update Note should already have been made, because the parliamentary budgetary office, in the note following the presentation of the budget document, said that the maneuver is different in composition and there is a rule that requires that, when a maneuver is different in composition, it should be proposed to Parliament because we have to know it. Madam President, we are in an awkward situation. Precisely because the Presidency is the supreme guarantee for us that the institutional dialectic will take place within the terms laid down by law, I ask that the President immediately (on a day) call the Government to have the law of stability presented immediately to the Chambers. Where there are points that the Government considers it necessary to change, a parliamentary process is envisaged to do so in a transparent manner before the Chambers. I shall conclude, Madam President, and thank you for the time you are giving me. The fact that the Senate of the Republic is interested is supported by an element that I think can be decisive: as you know, the hearings preliminary to the discussion are done in joint session between the House and the Senate. We would not be able today, if there had ever been any hearings, to talk about any element of the law of stability. I therefore ask you, Madam President, to immediately take the President's interest in carrying out this act: it is a garrison of legality and protection of the Chambers that we entrust to you, sure that you will interpret it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u19	Senator Azzollini, as you rightly recalled, this year's first reading is the House's turn. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). He said everything the other way around. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. And the Commission has already planned its work in the House. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). The law says to the Houses. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having said that, I will inform the President of the Senate exactly of this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u20	The next item is the debate on the draft law n° 2568, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Verducci, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u21	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I go into the subject of the illustration, allow me to join your words. I have this relationship with the fixed thought of the populations and territories that yesterday evening were hit by two other terrible earthquakes two months away from the terrible cataclysm of August 24, with the conviction that those populations and those territories will be able to overcome another test so difficult. It was thanks to the solidarity and readiness of the institutions that in these two months despair and fear have not won and, instead, has won the will of ransom, which this time will win, of those populations and those territories. I come, Madam President, to the draft law which is now being examined, which has already been approved by the House, which brings about the ratification of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, signed in December last year, at the United Nations Climate Conference. This is a very important text, ladies and gentlemen. The need to reduce emissions is urgently needed. 2016 is considered by many scientists the hottest and most polluted year ever lived by our planet, since there are surveys, with record concentrations of carbon dioxide; it is a situation of great alarm, stigmatized by the recent report drawn up by the world weather organization. According to this document, between 1990 and 2015 there was a 37 percent increase in the radiant effect of greenhouse gases, which remained too long in our atmosphere: carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, produced by a very strong humanization. (The sitting was suspended at 10.06 a.m.) (The sitting was suspended at 10.06 a.m. and resumed at 10.06 a.m.) In 2015, then, the average annual concentration in the Earth's atmosphere of CO2 - which is one of the most significant indicators of global warming - reached very high thresholds (400 parts per million), destined to remain so for many decades and therefore to weigh not only on us, but above all on future generations. We therefore need urgent action and the measures contained in the agreement that we are considering today are in the right direction. The agreement has been signed, I would like to remind you, by 191 countries, therefore by almost all those existing, already ratified by 86 States, including the United States, China, Brazil, India, as well as many European States. It will enter into force on 4 November, less than 12 months after its conclusion, an unusually short time for such agreements. Indeed, 55 ratifications have already been achieved by countries representing at least 55% of total emissions. The speed of these passages is a very significant fact, given that the Kyoto Treaty had previously taken more than eight years to enter into force. It would be a very important signal if Italy could conclude the ratification process quickly - this is today's objective - to arrive at the first meeting of the Conference of the Parties, scheduled for next November 7th in Marrakesh, with the ratification that took place. It is also a widely accepted text, which was approved by the House without any votes against and which was unanimously supported by the Foreign Affairs Committee yesterday. The Paris Agreement is intended to replace the installation of the current Kyoto Protocol and sets out a set of legally binding commitments, which are ambitious but at the same time realistic for the contracting parties, established on the basis of different national contexts. The long-term objective is to limit the rise in temperature below two degrees Celsius compared to pre-industrial levels, with the aim of continuing efforts to contain it within one and a half degrees. Alongside this, the aim is to strengthen the adaptive capacity of the different countries to the negative effects of climate change, especially in areas of the world where these effects are most devastating. We know that the consequences of climate change are not only environmental: dramatic migratory flows involving different parts of the world are so much caused by climate change. Global warming causes drought, desertification, hurricanes and is, therefore, a very powerful driver of migratory flows, particularly from some African regions. In relation to the objective of reducing the effects of climate change, each country, according to this Treaty, is obliged to draw up and communicate, at the time of ratification, the sequence of national contributions for mitigation of effects and then to update it every five years. Unlike the Kyoto Protocol, the Paris Agreement does not contain a binding annex setting out the gas reduction obligations for the parties, precisely because the contributions are determined at national level and autonomously, subject to their binding nature once notified. I would point out that the European Union and its Member States have been among the first to indicate their target, which is the reduction of emissions by at least 40% by 2030. The Treaty represents a turning point and encourages the parties to make efforts to conserve and improve the sinks of greenhouse gases and, in particular, carbon dioxide, the growth of which is closely linked to climate change. The Treaty also encourages the parties to invest economic resources against the negative effects of emissions resulting mainly from deforestation. Another of the key objectives of the Agreement is to promote a transformation of economies, making in the long term all financial flows compatible with the commitment to reduce greenhouse emissions, providing for a financial commitment from the richer countries, transparent and monitored, in support of developing countries. This objective includes the transfer of technologies and the enhancement of the organisational capacities of these countries, as well as support for environmental and civic education policies for greater transparency of information on the subject. An emission monitoring mechanism is also envisaged, with the commitment of the parties to report and submit to the multilateral review progress in the implementation of their plans, in order to make progress towards the shared collective objectives. The Agreement provides for a number of administrative and supervisory bodies, including, in particular, the Conference of the Parties mentioned above, which is the real direction of the Agreement and which will meet for the first time, as stated above, in Marrakech from 7 to 18 November (it will be COP22). Not only the contracting countries, but also the regional economic integration organisations, starting with the European Union, are involved in the areas within their competence. I would like to remind you that the Marrakesh Conference will be called upon to discuss not only how to implement the Paris Agreement, but also what measures to take and how to verify compliance with the commitments made. Hence the importance that Italy arrives at this appointment to ratification already happened. In view of this meeting, however, the main European institutions have already expressed their views in various forums; on 6 October the European Parliament adopted a resolution which stimulates an even greater commitment of the Member States; the Environment Council approved a document, including with critical points, on the preparations for the Marrakesh Conference and the European Committee of the Regions, Mr President, in turn formulated a number of indications, emphasising, inter alia, the importance of the regions and territorial authorities, alongside the national States, in achieving the emission reduction targets. In fact, the Paris Agreement - and this is also a positive point - recalls that the commitment to reducing climate change cannot be fulfilled by the central states alone, which are obviously the signatory parties, but needs the active involvement of sub-state bodies, cities, private individuals and territorial societies, businesses and citizens. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to point out that the draft ratification law consists of six articles. Articles 1, 2 and 6 concern respectively the authorisation to ratify, the order of implementation and the entry into force. Article 3 is devoted to financing the International Climate Fund, established in 2010 at the 16th session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. This is the Convention's main financial instrument, which therefore plays a central role in conveying resources for policies implementing the commitments made at international level. This bill authorizes the Minister of the Environment to ensure Italian participation in this fund, with an expenditure of 50 million euros for each of the years from 2016 to 2018, to contribute to the first capitalisation. Article 4 provides that any national contributions, which are defined at European level, shall be authorised by ad hoc regulatory measures. Finally, Article 5 concerns the coverage of the measure. The costs related directly to the ratification and implementation of the Agreement are quantified in approximately 490,000 euros per year for mission expenses, starting in 2017, to which additional expenditure of 1.450 million euros for 2017 and about 2 million euros from the year 2018. Mr President, to launch the Paris Agreement, to bring it into force as soon as possible, to fill it with additional content means to re-appropriate a strong political will, to finally be protagonists in addressing one of the most dramatic issues that concerns us and, above all, the generations to come, to which we are obliged to leave a healthy planet. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u22	I declare the general discussion open. She is registered to speak Senator Faedeli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental challenge of the 21st century - said Jeffrey Sachs a few years ago - will be to acknowledge that humanity shares a common destiny on a crowded planet. The common destiny that awaits us brings with it the responsibility to act to protect the planet, that is, our life. A responsibility that emerged clearly from the words of the leaders gathered in Paris last year for COP21, where I had the honour of being Head of Delegation for the Italian Parliament. In opening the Paris Conference, which led to the signing of the agreement that we are now called to ratify definitively, Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon recalled that it is the last chance to save the climate, a unique opportunity that may not return. And President Obama added that we are the first generation to suffer the impact of climate change and the last to be able to do something. This awareness and responsibility - this fact, in order to remain in the words of Sachs - are finally widespread, so much so that it has involved 193 countries in Paris, responsible for 96 percent of the emissions. Italy has arrived in Paris among the few countries to have met the commitments of Kyoto: since 1990 we have reduced our emissions by 23% and we produce from renewable sources a third of the energy consumed. Also important was the contribution of the Italian Presidency of the EU to the construction of the advanced European position, as important was our role in resolving the points of conflict in the negotiations made in Paris, for which we thank the Minister still today. With the ratification of the agreement we confirm our commitment to work to keep the temperature rise below two degrees, possibly stopping at 1.5 degrees. The ratification, moreover, allows us to continue to participate with protagonism in the next appointments, starting from COP22 that will begin in Marrakech, as the rapporteur said, from 7 November. This must be ours, of course, but even more European. It was rightly said that the European Union ratified the Paris Agreement on 4 October, but already in March 2015 it shared a commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% compared to 1990. Following the approval of the Agreement by Europe, we also reached that goal of 55% of the signatory countries that ratified that was needed to make it effective. In short, from next 5 November we will have in force a historical agreement, able to unite many countries - from the great powers, to very small States - around binding objectives for all, but - rightly - with ways of fulfilling the commitments lowered on the characteristics of each national context and with a shared system of international governance. By approving the bill under discussion today and completing the ratification after the vote of the Chamber of Deputies, we too follow the commitments made, allocating the necessary resources for pilot projects, to inform and educate and to contribute to the Green climate fund (the Green Climate Fund), for which the allocation is 50 million per year for the three-year period 2016-2018. Ratification - and this must always be stressed - makes the objectives and commitments of the Paris Agreement binding. By voting in this way, we can show that we can take responsibility for the future and for the next generations. On the other hand, an agreement that had been lowered from the top and imposed on each country the things to do would risk being a noble act, but not adhering to the needs and political choices of each government. Leaving each signatory the burden of self-imposed strict constraints is instead a choice that I think helps us to really increase the awareness of institutions and societies and make the Agreement really a choice of each country. Climate issues - it is good that there is also a great awareness on this - risk not only harming the environment, but also exacerbating inequalities and producing changes whose impact is truly overwhelming. In the last two hundred years (the era called Anthropocene, in which for the first time man has a decisive impact on nature), the human imprint on the earth has grown enormously, with the population sixfold, from 1 to 6.6 billion, and with the economic activity grown eight times only from 1950 to today. It was a major demographic and industrial transition, supported mainly by the use of fossil energy sources, with a level of pollution that substantially altered the balance of the planet. The scenarios for 2100, without urgent, decisive and concrete interventions are disturbing: an increase of between three and six degrees of average temperatures, an increase of two meters of sea level, 200 million possible climate refugees and a 50% increase in global energy needs. The issue really concerns everyone - developed countries, as well as developing countries - and it is clear that environmental issues are closely related to social and economic issues. We can no longer regard the environment in which we live as something particular and foreign to us, but we must increasingly integrate it into all policies: it is the space in which we live and nothing can ignore this. The fight against climate change, therefore, also concerns the fight against injustice, inequality and poverty, as well as the challenges of economic and industrial policy, to open a season of growth that re-launches the goals of sustainable development, as it was done at the UN in September 2015, also encouraging businesses and supporting them to focus on sustainable energy sources, innovation, new technologies, creativity and research. These are all factors present in the DNA of Italy, which we must know how to rediscover, enhance and modernise, but - above all - support and encourage. In this sense, we must also overcome the historical contrast between environmental obligations and the right to development, finding new forms of collaboration between countries and in the country, also with that mechanism of differentiation of burdens and obligations and of exchange of knowledge provided for by the Paris Agreement itself. As the UN supports with the 2030 Agenda, sustainable development affects all countries and engages all governments. Objective 13 of the 17 approved in September 2015 concerns precisely climate change and the challenge of limiting the increase in temperature and its impact. However, this is not an issue in itself, but is integrated with the pre-eminent challenges against hunger and poverty, in order to achieve gender equality, quality education, the use of clean energy, health, innovation and work. Sustainable development, understood in this new way, is the framework within which to place our every choice and every act for the future. It is essential that it is not only - let us say this - a rhetorical device. That is why the measure we are voting on today is really so important. However, we cannot hide: today's, ladies and gentlemen, is only a first step, and even after the final ratification of this agreement, we will have to continue our commitment constantly, seriously and concretely. You really need to lead the world towards a new phase. We need policy to be able to read, interpret and govern the changes that are now a permanent feature of our society and the processes of environmental, demographic and industrial transformation, which are in place and which will not stop. I repeat: we owe it at least to the next generations, if not to ourselves, who are alive today. It takes a green revolution, articulated in every sector, to change life styles in depth, to make citizens and citizens aware of how important this challenge is and to activate all the institutions, each for its own specific responsibilities. Finally, this choice must become a legislative mainstream policy, guiding every choice and every policy, as elements of an overall and sustainable commitment to the future of all. For women and men, what is possible precedes reality, and it is this ability that we must rediscover today, abandoning determinism and resuming change in our hands, guiding it to well-being and sustainability. It is a complex and epochal challenge, for which, by ratifying this Agreement, we demonstrate that we are ready. From the moment of the vote forward, however, we will also have to show that we are actually up to it. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bignami. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u25	Mr President, we are called upon to ratify an international treaty, which should cover the reduction of the increase in earthly temperature by about 1.5 or 2 degrees Celsius. We have all done very quickly and it seems that the Agreement will be active and functioning from tomorrow, even if it will not be so, and so we should all be happy for all this glitter and all this gold. There's no gold here, but there's iron pyrites. Let us see why this agreement is not going well, it is going very badly, although we will ultimately vote in favour of ratification, just for the sake of our country's charity. It is very bad, because everything that has happened so far should be analysed in terms of climate factors. Instead, we are dealing with the problem, as if we were thinking about the thermostat in our home. (at 10:27 a.m.) (Following MARTELLI). Each of us - and also for the people who signed the Agreement - reason as if we were suddenly raising the thermostat at home, of 1.5 or at the maximum of 2 degrees centigrade and, at the limit, we will take off an extra sweater and everything will be fine, without thinking about all the interconnections that are created in a complex climate machine, such as the planetary one. We are not even able to understand what time it will take in ten days, but we are demanding that we put together some data, which are not held together, trying to draw conclusions. So let us go and reason on this, making a first consideration. There is not a number in the Agreement that is one: I tried to read it again, hoping that since the last time I read it things had magically changed, but that is not the case. Well, this containment of the temperature increase to 1,5 or 2 degrees centigrade, as if they were considered safety limits, is related to the amount of CO2, which should be released into the atmosphere as a level not to be exceeded. The numbers that are added are 450 parts per million for the only contaminating carbon dioxide. Without prejudice to the fact that we are stable above 400 parts per million (the minimum peak is already above this level, being 401.63 parts per million) we have already reached 407 parts and within seven years we will be 450 parts per million. We will be there, even if CO2 emissions are stabilized now. So the level of 450 parts per million for CO2 alone is unrealizable: consider it already exceeded. And therefore linking the thermal increase to a CO2 threshold has no logical reason other than the fact that this limit is already exceeded and we are already above those levels. Apart from the month of September, the average readings speak of a thermal increase of 1.37 degrees and therefore a few decimal places are missing to reach an increase of 1.5 degrees. We must, however, ask ourselves whether we are sure that the threshold of an increase of 1.5 degrees can be considered a safety threshold. You should know the planetary thermal machine. I, who delight in some of these things, just to get an idea, have observed the map of the snow on the Greenland ice cap, which is one of the most critical points for our planetary system not so much because of the equivalent level of rising of the sea that could occur, which is about six meters - which would also be a disastrous thing - but because it is much more unstable than the Antarctic ice cap. Well, the snowfall regime on the Greenland cap has completely changed. Where it snowed to the west before, it snows to the east now, so we already have a change in the wind circulation at the northern hemisphere level, and this is absolutely unpredictable and unpredictable. Secondly, we do not know the dynamics of surface warming and cooling of the oceans, we do not know why the ENSO cycle goes from positive to negative, we do not know why the "Atlantic blob" that determines the European climate is created. We don't know much and rely on concepts such as teleconnections that are probabilistic links between an event that happens in one part of the world and another event that happens from another part of the world. All things not studied. According to this, we claim to be able to say that a degree and a half is a safety threshold, when then there are studies, one after the other, that talk about the instabilization of a part of the Antarctic cap due to the infiltration of hot water. So we can't be quiet thinking that if the temperature rises to one and a half degrees, it's fine because it's going to do an extra degree and a half on average all over the planet because now, at this moment, we measure positive anomalies of 15 degrees across the Arctic ocean. This means that the Arctic ocean is not freezing. And you can't think that goes well so much is floating ice and so there is no problem of raising the surface of the sea because floating ice, of course, melts. In fact, there is one thing: no ice cover means more heat absorption from the oceans. We do not know very well how the oceanic heat is distributed. We know about the thermoalin circulation, but we don't know what are the factors that put it in crisis. Despite this, we continue to expect this agreement to save us. Let's say why this agreement doesn't save us at all, on the contrary, it nails us to the fact that we limit CO2 emissions to a level that is that of 1990. All the projections speak of reaching, in 2070, a decarbonised economy, that is neutral compared to all carbon emissions. What about all the CO2 we've already emitted? That doesn't look like anyone. Well, the projections say we're close to a thousand parts per million. But someone might say they can't figure out what these blessed a thousand parts per million are. He can't even understand who did the EPICA project (European project for ice core in Antarctica), that is a carrot that reaches to the bottom, to the base of the continental platform, in an attempt to study how it was the atmospheric concentration of gases millions of years ago, when it began to form the Antarctic cap. Well, the thousand parts per million have never been found, but the good thing is that the present 401.63 have not been found in the last sixty million years. One might wonder what is the consequence of the increase in CO2 and the answer would be that the supply of planetary oxygen has dropped. When we were young, they told us that there was about 72 percent nitrogen in the atmosphere and about 18 percent oxygen: today there is little more than 16 percent. So if I can seem to care about a gas that is considered odorless, colourless and non-toxic, I can't care that the atmospheric oxygen concentration drops, because oxygen is what we breathe. But let's assume for a moment that we decarbonize now, with our level of 402 parts per million CO2 in the atmosphere plus all the other gases. This would have another chain effect that has not yet been understood. What is certain is that the average temperature increase is not reflected in an equal local increase. I have just said: at this moment the Arctic ocean measures positive anomalies of 15 degrees but the data of the last year speak of more 3.7 degrees on the Arctic. The Arctic polar zone is the most sensitive one along with the circummartic zone. In the circummartic zone there are huge deposits of trapped methane. Also for those who do not know, methane has a GWP (global warming potential) of 35 times, that is a molecule of methane has an effect 35 times greater than that of a molecule of CO2 and the emissions of methane are those more connected to the destabilizing of the texture of the soils. This is another of the things that is not studied, but the precautionary principle says that if I do not know it is better that I do not interfere. Instead, we continue to consider the earth system as our home, where we raised the thermostat a little. Let us consider what would happen if these gases were emitted, and if this emission took place suddenly. There are already historical data that talk about these sudden and uncontrolled emissions, both from the bottom of the ocean and from the ground. The event of fifty million years ago in the North Atlantic testifies exactly this: methane trapped under the sea, at the level of the marine base that has improvised developed in the atmosphere. And this is one of the factors to which all paleontologists and paleoclimatics blame the crisis that led to the fourth extinction, that of dinosaurs. So the planet can go on without us. Everything we are saying is only for our use and consumption. But here at two o'clock: either we decide to be able to be at peace with this planet or we decide not to. This agreement decides not to do so, to ignore the problem, closing it behind a semblance of security. But remember that there is no security here and everything always becomes a problem of money. We have referred to the economic problem as the first reason not to intervene on this. Yet, every study done testified to the following: money invested in decarbonization and the removal of fruit much more profit than money invested in mitigation or business as usual. Because, in the end, we are talking about increasing renewable energies but never about shutting down fossil power stations; we are always talking about additive economy and never about subtractive economy. Again, words are important. We are talking about sustainable development. But the expression sustainable development was created by those who created eternity! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Schmidheiny duo and De Cartier invented the Committee for Sustainable Development and also the term. Their intent, however, was to make this activity lobbyist, hiding behind a patina of green something that green is not. Sustainable development does not exist. We must make peace with our brains and realize that it is not as good as we are going, but in a radical way. It is said that this is a first step; but this is a first step towards the abyss. It is as if today was April 14, 1912 and we said: today there is a nice party and, even if I have seen the iceberg, I reduce the speed a bit and that's okay. The iceberg, however, is still there and we continue to go straight towards that iceberg. Having said that, which is a bit of bad news, let us ask ourselves what government and Parliament should do. They should put themselves in the head that, since this road is over, another road must be followed. It is true that we are trapped by Parliament and the WTO, but that is irrelevant. We must not wait for all other states to reach a downward agreement to say that, at this point, we sign. A state must also have the courage to say: I want to do more and I want to penalise those who do not do the same thing. If palm oil comes because the European Union has decided that it wants to implement a strategy on biofuels, which is a strategy that is destroying agriculture in other nations, I say no. I don't want European biofuel and I don't like how it's going. If anyone wants to sell biofuels made with palm oil in Italy, in Germany, I impose such a tax that the sale will become impossible. I have to make the right choice. Then will Germany complain? Let him complain. We are still the seventh or eighth economic power in the world and no one in the world can afford not to trade with Italy. We have a contractual power that we must exploit. We don't always have to go to the tow. We are talking about the European Union, which has filled its mouth with at least 40% of CO2 emissions by 2030. Well, the European Union, since 1990 has already done 27%. This 43% will come spontaneously, with the dematerialization of the economy. So the road map of the European Union is a road map of the kind: let's move on so that we can get there spontaneously. What was not denied to COP19 by the German delegation itself when we spoke to him personally. So, I'm not saying invented things, but things that the German delegation said in a meeting. The United States has already reached its peak and is decreasing compared to its peak, for the same reason. Because the industry, spontaneously, is decarbonizing for greater efficiency achieved. So this deal just goes along with something that's already happening. The Chinese case and the Indian case are separate cases, but they too will have the same kind of curve. What we can't afford is for everyone to reach their peak. This is written in the agreement. It is written that the nations must hurry to reach the peak. It doesn't say they don't have to reach him or they have to put him behind them. It says instead that they have to hurry to reach it and that means that emissions will continue to increase and I am talking only about CO2. So, what's our government waiting for us to put ourselves in all international fora and act as a pioneer? In fact, if we decided to put in place technological and fiscal strategies to do this, the virtuous circuit would take off immediately. The industry is much more prepared than the politicians behind it, except that until the electricity exchange costs are balanced on the cost of the marginal producer, the one that does energy with coal, we will never get out of it. What are we waiting for to make an innovative move and outlaw coal-fired power plants? It's not hard. Coal, being a product 300 million years old, contains within it any substance, including radioactive substances and heavy metals. It is enough to impose a limit on the fireplace and a coal-fired power station no longer has the possibility of operating. It's not hard. Do we need 5,000 carbon megawatts? We don't need 5,000 coal megawatts, but we just let that be because ENEL is a piece of the state and the state doesn't inflict an autoimmune disease, it doesn't work against itself. I mean, we don't want to take this lupus erythematosus. But that is another consideration. When we talk about 5,000 megawatts, it can be said that there are few, but we are talking about 10 million tons of coal, which is about 35 million tons of CO2. It's a small thing, but it's still a contribution. We tax more energy, produced with fossil sources, that comes from abroad, then: it is right and sacrosanct that we do it. We create a special fund with that taxation to continue, I do not say decarbonization, but - I go beyond - extraction. We support agriculture and animal husbandry, which are the largest greenhouse gas emitters on the planet. On the planet there are 1.7 billion cows, about 500 kilos of cow meat, and every kilo of meat costs us 4 kilos of oil: practically Iran's oil reserves, all to have a cow park. All this will turn into CO2. So, what are we talking about? We do, however, directly and indirectly support both animal husbandry and agriculture. It is said that agriculture, as it is, is not economically viable in the face of competition from foreign nations which produce at a lower marginal cost. All right, but there's a possibility of intervening fiscally on this. But as long as agriculture alone emits about 50 billion cubic meters of methane, we will never go anywhere. Is that clear? So if we don't intervene on this (which are the simplest things), we're done. The cumulative emissions of CO2 and methane in the Cuban livestock sector from 28 to 51% of global greenhouse gas emissions, more than all coal-fired power stations, more than all cars, aircraft, ships or any other vehicle driven by an endothermic engine: all these vehicles combined are less than just animal husbandry. So, we have the problem in front of our eyes and we ignore it. It would be very simple to intervene on this: it would be enough for the government to remove the subsidies. Meat, milk and derivatives should cost, like all things, the right; not a deliberately calmed price, because this is called market distortion. And if the WTO has not yet noticed, if the European Union has not yet noticed that these are distorting mechanisms, then someone must warn them. Does it seem reasonable to you that meat has a cost comparable to that of vegetables? Or cereal? Looks to me like there's a slight distortion. How much money are we talking about? The Community's agricultural policy, as we continue to call it, is the richest spending chapter in the European Union as a whole: all the money that is being conveyed to support a sector that alone is not standing. Attention, I do not know if I have enough time, but I would like to stress one last aspect, since I have already put enough arguments on the table: there is an example in our solar system of what an uncontrolled greenhouse effect means, that is, when the thermal machine of a planet jams and you can no longer keep it under control. I'm talking about the planet Venus: this planet has found its balance at about 320 degrees, because the trapped heat continues to be trapped. We must not and cannot afford to wait for the planet to find its balance, but quite simply because a situation can become irreversible. Once the Arctic cap had gone into crisis or the Western Antarctic had gone into crisis, how long should we wait for the planet to recover? We should at least wait for the beginning of a new glacial period. Until you have the conditions to recreate that structure, even if you decarbonize and return to the level of 280 parts per million (which are the stable ones of the pre-industrial era), you no longer reform the Arctic cap and the Western Antarctic. They are mechanisms that go on alone for principles of feedback that continue to self-feed. So, all right, we signed the Agreement and we implement it, but for me this is the beginning of the end and we need to be aware of it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u26	We greet the students and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Valle dei Laghi" in Dro, in the province of Trento. We also welcome their teachers to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u27	Madam President, first of all I would like to point out that we have been taking a serious risk in relation to the ratification of this Treaty, which we have considered very important from the outset, since the beginning of the debate. We have considered it, even in previous versions, as a commitment of our country absolutely to be respected and, indeed, to be supported as it is, as has already been said, always insufficient in relation to the objectives that we must put ourselves to the environmental recovery of our planet. We ran the risk of not ratifying it in time with respect to an appointment already planned: this risked leaving us as observers in front of the international community. An international community that, as we have always said, must be more sensitive to these issues. We have said that because we believe that the environmental issue is a matter of these times and hours. We have also said this because the environmental issue brings with it great problems of a social nature; just as we manage the planet, we also manage the lives of the people who inhabit it. However, we also say this as paradoxically the environmental issue has always been considered above all by the right: not by the national right, but by the international right, by the more or less greedy interests of those who want to take advantage of everything without any respect for the parameters of life of the whole. We have said that it is also the main economic issue, that is, the new and necessary area of financial intervention of public investment capable of soliciting, promoting and supporting even the most comprehensive production capacity of world society. This is the key and it is all political in nature. I am always very fascinated by those who have great technical skills in this field. However, I would like to point out that we are dealing with a subject that is exquisitely political, starting from the awareness that we need to save the planet in order to save ourselves, because we do not save ourselves if we do not save the planet; convinced as we are that to do this, it is not enough to do actions of a formal nature, even legally relevant, if we are not then consistent to the full in terms of behaviour; convinced as we are that this is a matter that cannot be dealt with at national level, but that it must be treated as the Agreement does, which is a great achievement, that we will ratify with the commitment we feel about this issue. It is a subject which cannot be dealt with at national level, but which recalls - as I said - global responsibilities. We are convinced, however, that, while it is true that the size is that, the responsibility is also individual, it is also of each of the institutions, starting from the smaller institutions that have responsibilities for land management, for the management of ecological issues: as a municipality manages the lot of waste, it is true that we are able to respect the obligations arising from this Treaty. It is not enough, therefore, the general scaffolding: it must be followed by coherent behaviors that are - yes - a responsibility of the individual citizen, of the local communities, of the regional and national communities. We demand that there be a verifiable trace from this point of view in the next budgetary manoeuvre. For years we have been fighting on the security and maintenance front of the territory and on that of environmental redevelopment, restoration and reclamation of compromised areas. We have been referring for years to a method of management of pollution indices in industrial production, so that they are not treated with legal measures that are intended primarily to guarantee industrial production rather than life. In other words, this approach must be reversed: first life. Then we adapt the systems of industrial production and consumption to that primary need of salvation of our natural environment and of ourselves. This is the subject on which we have to measure ourselves, I tell the Minister. We also have a hope for some areas of our country that contribute much and not little to pollution activity, but that are the most depressed in the country, because they have the most impacting industrial activities in terms of protecting the natural environment and its parameters of life. We expect some important signs in the budgetary manoeuvre, even for certain areas of the Mezzogiorno. I quote one for all, the Sulcis, devastated by poverty. It is one of the most depressed provinces in Europe as a whole and a reality deeply polluted from the environmental point of view, as there is an industrial area systematically under observation for the presence of environmental hazards. We therefore need to identify - through studies in this respect - production methods consistent with the Agreement that we are ratifying and which we have already signed. Madam President, last of all I would like to say - and in this respect we are also expecting a reflection from the Minister - that, in my opinion, today we have had to refer to a now unfortunately daily disaster report: sometimes it is a flood, sometimes a fire, sometimes even an earthquake; we count tens and sometimes hundreds of victims. They tell me - I don't know if it's true news, because national television networks spread it and so we take it as a good thing - that only in a year 400,000 people died, due to reduced air quality, and in Italy 10,000. The point of the agreement that we are going to ratify is as follows: the size of the powder earthquake that we are victims of in environmental matters is immeasurably higher than that of the earthquakes that we are unfortunately experiencing, like that of yesterday and recent months. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u29	Madam President, the draft law on the ratification and implementation of the Paris Climate Agreement, adopted last December at the end of COP21 (Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which dates back to 1992), is before us. The Agreement will enter into force on 4 November 2016. Other states have ratified it. Today it is Italy's turn and we are all aware that the implementation of the Paris Agreement, which will replace the current Kyoto Protocol, is essential for achieving the objectives of sustainable development. This Agreement provides that the parties will have to submit every five years the planned national contributions they wish to achieve progressively. These programmes for the European Union provide for a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030, an objective already set by the European Council since 2014. This limit has been set because the planet is in a climate emergency status that risks being realized in its overheating of over 4 degrees Celsius, which will have irreversible consequences for the planet itself and mankind and which will already be visible in just over half a century. Storms and floods that are going to hit the world's coastal areas with ever greater intensity, causing biblical migrations of millions of people, while climate warming will change the forest areas and the humid areas of the planet, causing sometimes irreversible damage to the entire ecosystem. The alarm is particularly serious in our country. According to the analysis of temperature data, carried out by the Institute of Atmospheric Sciences and Climate of the National Research Council, Italy is warming faster than the global average and other emerging lands of the planet. The trend of global warming, which can be calculated by evaluating not only the data of a year, but also the trend of the last decades, is for Italy once and a half that of the average of the lands emerged and twice that of the whole planet. This data should be further studied and analysed. It will therefore be the task of our national research system to give us useful guidance. And having approved yesterday the bill that encourages studies in geology and earth sciences could contribute as a first step towards the path of the stimulation of research and analysis of phenomena related to the modifications of the planet. One of the objectives of the Paris Agreement is to limit the increase in global average temperature below 2 degrees Celsius compared to pre-industrial levels and to pursue efforts to limit it to 1.5 degrees Celsius, as this would significantly reduce the risks and impacts of climate change. The Paris Agreement was to be very ambitious and in some respects it was. The fact that 188 countries have undertaken, through a binding strategy, to control and limit their greenhouse gas emissions is undoubtedly a historic achievement. However, as was already clear before the beginning of COP21, it is still not sufficient to limit temperature growth below 2 degrees Celsius compared to pre-industrial growth. This is why the process of dividing and updating the commitments outlined in the Paris Agreement will play a key role in promoting ever more ambitious actions. In this regard, we are already looking at the next meeting, the so-called COP22, to be held in Marrakech from 7 November, during which we will further define, in particular, the ways and times of implementation of the intermediate steps of the Paris strategy, so that it can operate effectively. A crucial aspect for achieving the targets will be the mobilisation of the financial resources needed to allow developing countries to define mitigation and adaptation plans, as well as those that all countries will have to invest in research, development and transfer of new technologies. Ultimately, everything will depend on the timeliness and effectiveness of the implementation of the necessary measures by individual States. In Paris an important role was played by the private sector, which for the first time made significant commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but also by civil society and local institutions. The complex issue involves political responsibilities. For years in Italy no industrial policies have been planned. Today we pay off the delays, the waste, the unpreparedness to the new challenges that are eminently cultural, aimed at change and innovation. Today Italy has precarious industrial policies: the controversial ILVA case in Puglia is emblematic and dramatic at the same time. Change is not only possible, but can be an extraordinary opportunity, while non-action will have a huge environmental cost (with damage to ecosystems), economic (with damage to infrastructure and production processes) and social (with an increase in the rate of emigration and human mortality due to the effects of climate change). For this reason, the Government should really put into practice a concrete and incisive national strategy for reducing emissions, on the one hand, and adapting to climate change, on the other hand, through the urgent adoption of measures to encourage greater responsibility for sectors other than industry, which make a decisive contribution to emissions: transport, agriculture, housing, large infrastructure. In this context, the existing industrial heritage should be exploited, promoting, in all sectors of production and services, the adoption of technologies that increase the environmental compatibility of production processes, the eco-sustainability and the development of new production activities in sectors more closely linked to the green economy. We trust, therefore, Mr Galletti, in a change of pace. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Companione. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Paris Agreement of December 2015, which our country is called upon to ratify today, is aimed in its details at protecting the planet's climate. It has been said from several quarters that this is a historic agreement, it was nothing else because it was signed and ratified by the two countries that more than the others pollute (the United States and China), but by others it was considered bland and lacking in some places. In fact, the signing in Rio de Janeiro in 1992 of the Climate Convention launched a virtually annual COP course, the 21st meeting of which was held in Paris. Historical and important was certainly that of Kyoto in 1997 and, since then, the countries are marching faster: to ratify the Kyoto Protocol it took almost five years and even the entry into force of that Protocol was very slow. Therefore, being here today, less than a year after the Paris negotiations, is certainly a very positive step forward. With this Agreement, the signatory countries recognise some fundamental points. They recognise the need to respond effectively and progressively to the urgent threat of climate change. They recognise the specific needs of developing countries, especially those particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change. They also recognise the key priority of safeguarding food security and ending hunger. This last point was loudly requested by the FAO and it also links the text with the first two major universal objectives of sustainable development. The signatory countries also recognise that climate change is a common issue for humanity and countries should, when they act to address it, respect, promote and consider their obligations on human rights, the right to health, the rights of indigenous peoples, local communities, migrants, children, people with disabilities, vulnerable people and the right to development, as well as gender equality and equality between generations. Countries stress the importance of ensuring the integrity of all ecosystems, including oceans and the protection of biodiversity. They stress the importance of climate justice when dealing with climate change. All this is contained in the preamble to the Agreement, which is also the cultural basis on which it is based. The main objective of the Convention is, therefore, to stabilise the concentration in atmosphere of climatic gases at a level that avoids dangerous human interference in the system, safeguarding the balance of life on our planet. Certainly the Agreement to combat climate change encourages profound changes in the industrial, energy, transport, construction and agriculture sectors, which require courageous and uneasy decisions at every stage. We are encouraged by the fact that China and the United States, the two countries most polluting in the world, have finally signed and ratified the Paris Agreement. This really is an important fact to contain global warming. As some previous speakers have said, there is no doubt that the problem must be tackled not by a single country, but by the planet as a whole. If we think that just a year ago, on the eve of COP21, India stated that it absolutely did not intend to reduce emissions and that it was still up to the developed countries to make the greatest efforts, then we can say that the COP21 Agreement is really historic because for the first time, with regard to climate, all countries have committed themselves actively to reducing greenhouse emissions. The text really contains a very ambitious objective, which until a few years ago seemed unimaginable, namely that temperature growth must be blocked below 2 degrees compared to the pre-industrial era. In addition, industrialised countries have committed themselves to feeding an annual fund of $100 billion (starting from 2021, with a planned growth mechanism) for the transfer of clean technologies to countries unable to progress towards the green economy. To meet this challenge, it was important that all the countries, especially those we can no longer define as developing countries, such as China, India and Brazil, which today have the greatest growth and pollution. President Obama himself, on the eve of the G20, said that cooperation is the best chance we have and was right. If we are all able to honour the Paris Agreement and respect the target on reducing greenhouse emissions, then we will have taken a step towards the real progress of humanity. It is a battle that every single country cannot do alone, even if it were the most powerful and rich. Everyone has to do their part and, therefore, we come to our home, to Italy. We are called to a great responsibility and to assume a consistent behavior between what is said and what is practiced. While it is true, as it is true, that the fight against climate change is taking place on the front of reducing emissions into the atmosphere, it is also true that all this goes through a radical change in the way we deal with waste and emissions into the atmosphere. Indeed, the affirmation of the principles of the circular economy, of which so much is said and on which we absolutely agree, aimed at the recovery of the matter, recycling and reuse, is certainly a radical change that can impact positively on the environment, with less resources used and less emissions, on the recovery chain, on the manufacture, but also on the citizens, with a reduction of about 20% of the cost of management of urban waste (also with an economic impact for the citizens themselves). Moreover, according to the World Bank, action to combat climate change is a source of an increase in GDP, estimated so far at EUR 1 900 billion per year, and this is certainly not to be underestimated. There is no doubt, in fact, that there is also an economic relapse in these processes. These are not new, and the Government has repeated them several times, and so many measures that we have taken in recent years - think of the environmental connection - go in this direction. We must, however, be more and more consequential, concrete and coherent: we cannot embrace the circular economy and declare ourselves in favour of reducing the production of waste and continue to look at the creation of new waste-to-energy heaters, even when they are not necessary; or we cannot, on the one hand, want the reduction of pollutants in the atmosphere and, on the other, still allow the search for fossil fuels in our Mediterranean. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. Compagnon (AL-A). In Article 2 of the draft ratification law under consideration, it is written as follows: "Full and full execution" is given to the Paris Agreement. We say that full and full implementation will only be possible if we are consistent and able to draw up a coherent strategy on the environment and energy, because only on this basis can we be judged credible at international level, but above all by our future generations. This rule is, therefore, a due act, in respect of which the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party announces its vote in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u32	Madam President, I have been given ten minutes, but in fact, since there is no pressure on time, the advance that I would like to make further use of. The Senate - I remember - on the first December of last year discussed in this forum motions on climate change, when the 21st Paris Climate Conference had already begun. The motions were aimed at giving direction to the Government to be received by the International Conference. We were late then and we are still late today as a country, because the Paris Climate Agreement was signed on December 12, at the end of COP21. On April 22, it was signed in New York by more than 170 member countries. 11:13 a.m. (Follow Arrigoni). Then, on 4 October, it was ratified by the European Union and by seven other EU Member States (such as Hungary, France, Slovakia, Austria, Malta, Portugal and Germany), thus reaching that requirement, for the entry into force of the agreement itself, that - as I recall - ratifications of at least 55 countries responsible for 55% of global emissions were necessary. With the ratification of the European Union and of the other seven countries, the requirements have been met, the thirty days have taken place at the end of which - it will be November 4, and therefore in a few days - the Agreement will enter into force. Someone said before - I do not know if they are updated - that 86 countries have already ratified the Agreement and, among them, there are also the USA, China and India. The 4th of November is a few days before the beginning of COP22 in Marrakech, Morocco, where, from 7 to 18 November, we will begin to discuss climate change, with particular reference this time to the implementation of the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement has objectives that represent a great challenge that everyone must obviously share. One objective is the slowing down of global warming, containing - I remember - by the end of the century a temperature delta within 2 degrees of pre-industrial levels, with the commitment, added positively during the Paris Conference, to work actively so that this delta can be contained - obviously ambitious forecast - within 1.5 degrees. This objective is certainly acceptable, because we must stop the catastrophic consequences that have been occurring for some years because of global warming and the world's average temperature. Catastrophic consequences are increasingly occurring also in our country, where in recent years we see an increase in the phenomena of water bombs, storms and hurricanes, as well as phenomena of extensive desertification. These are, in short, climate change with serious, extensive and sometimes irreversible effects for populations and ecosystems. The objective of limiting the temperature increase by 2 degrees (possibly within 1.5 degrees) can only be achieved through this Agreement of a universal, global and lasting nature, which must have long-term objectives: an Agreement that must be absolutely transparent and all acceding countries must pursue verifiable, comparable and binding results in the direction of emission reduction. We will see if in the bill of stability - when the two Chambers will ever have the text, as Mr Azzollini rightly denounced at the beginning of the sitting - will be present, written in black and white, the investment plan of 4 billion euros from here to 2020 that, during the Conference in Paris, in front of a world showcase, President Renzi promised, not allowing himself to escape once again the opportunity to amaze everyone. In our opinion, this will be Renzi's umpteenth promise to fall into the void. Of course, the content of the Agreement is not entirely positive, but we basically agree with it. There are several critical issues that - according to us - during the implementation that will start from the COP22 of Marrakech, will have to be removed as much as possible. I am talking, for example, about the fact that the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions which the various States Parties to the Agreement must pursue is related to the gross domestic product of each State. According to us, this parameter presents some critical issues, because it does not take into account - for example - the technologies that each country adopts for the production of energy: there are those who produce it using exclusively fossil sources (in particular, coal); then there are other countries, like ours, which instead resort to the use of renewable sources so much that, in the ranking linked to the use of such sources, our Country is in a good position. This, in our view, risks overburdening our companies, which are called upon to invest heavily in achieving the greenhouse gas reduction targets. They are the big companies, but - I remember - also the small ones of our country, that from here on they must be supported by the government, with adequate administrative and financial instruments. If this were not the case, our large, but above all small and medium-sized enterprises would have more and more difficulty competing, especially with companies in developing countries, which focus on the competitiveness of the prices of products placed on the market, at the expense of environmental protection. The COP21 and COP22 in Marrakech aim to counter catastrophic scenarios, but not only the problem of climate change. I take advantage of the presence of Minister Galletti, to remind (on behalf of the Group of the North League) that the Italian Government, which will of course have to monitor and operate effectively for the pursuit of the objectives of COP21, will also have to start to address, immediately and seriously, the alarming problem (denounced while Renzi last year made footbridge in Paris) of the European Environment Agency (EEA), putting it black and white in his report. According to this report, Italy is the country of the European Union that marks the record of the number of premature deaths compared to the normal life expectancy for air pollution. Still, according to the Agency, only for 2012 our country recorded 84,400 such deaths, out of a total of 491,000 deaths at EU level. There are three killer chemical agents on charge, for this very sad record: thin microdusts, nitrogen dioxide and ozone. And I remember and emphasize that the most affected area of the country is confirmed that of the Po Valley, with the head of the provinces of Brescia, Monza, Milan, but also Turin. We are talking - as it happens - about the most anthropized areas of the country, where domestic heating is most affected, which is used for cold winter temperatures, but where there is also the greatest congestion of car traffic, also and above all because of the lack of road infrastructure. I shall conclude by saying that the protection of the ecosystem is good and that the objective to be pursued by the Paris Agreement is good. However, dear Minister Galletti, we begin to take seriously and in a greater way than has been done to date about the problem of air pollution, which presents serious problems in the Po Valley, also dealing with the protection of human health of the inhabitants of that important part of the country. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u33	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u34	Mr President, I have heard so many fine rhetorical words, as if the sophisms were enough to keep the problems away and as if this were not the Parliament that voted on the measure "destination Italy," better known as the "explosion incentive"; as if it were not Parliament that voted on the "unblock Italy" of the drills and incinerators; as if we were in another country and we had realized what the problem was; as if we were not that Parliament that in the Commissions always puts a brake on the possibility of stopping the consumption of the territory, or - for example - the European Union's note on the revision of Regulation No 525 of 2013. Yes, it is true that we also have to deal with the economic problem, especially small and medium-sized enterprises - and we are the first ones who care about this problem - but this issue cannot be used as a brake, because the conversion of our production system is something that we can no longer postpone. [[Applause from Senator Girotto]] In fact, if there are indeed - and unfortunately there will be - the disasters announced, there will be no more small and medium-sized enterprises, because the cost of those events will be so serious and will be borne by the same small and medium-sized enterprises and - I repeat - we cannot always oppose competitiveness and excessive cost as a brake. The European Commission, in its report accompanying the proposal to amend Regulation 525 which we have been considering in the Commission until the other day, stresses that, with current trends, greenhouse gas emissions will not be able to decrease sufficiently to achieve the target of an annual reduction of 30% compared to 2005 and therefore the Paris targets will not be met. This is a fact, it is a fact, it is a statement. A year after COP21 last December, we wrote, in black and white, that we are not going in the right direction and today, with great delay, we are going to ratify the Agreement. Right, well come on, but we must be aware of the delay, aware of the fact that we are not going in the right direction. The agreement, as we all know, sets a long-term objective for global warming to limit the rise in temperatures below 2 degrees, because this limit has been declared insufficient. It is therefore necessary to limit this increase to no more than one and a half degrees more than pre-industrial levels. This, of course, is a very heavy task. Yet, we can be satisfied if in 2014 and 2015, for the first time in many years, the growth of global emissions - let's be careful: worldwide - has stopped even in the presence of global growth. This, however, is a fact that is recorded only by observing the positive data of the developing countries, that is, what is happening in China of positive. It seems that this stop - so not a decrease - can also be said structural and this is seen in a good degree, as a positive fact. The impressive figure, however, is that relative to the growth curve that, since the nineties, has been exponential and has never stopped, except in the years 2008 and 2009 that have been the darkest for the economy, and then resume with recovery. That is the situation we are in. Since 1990 we have gone from 38 gigatonnes of CO2 equivalent to 54 gigatonnes of CO2 equivalent. This is the trend, this is our path. Worldwide, it is true that 2015 has reached a level of investment never before achieved on RES (renewable energy sources). We have reached 286 billion dollars of investment worldwide, but it was only thanks to the developing countries that far exceeded the so-called industrialised countries. We return, with these data, to the slightly higher levels of 2011. However, we must analyze the data, and see that since 2011 the developing countries have recorded a constant investment and, therefore, a curve of growth in investments, while the globalized Western countries have recorded a really alarming figure of a growing decrease in investments, which in 2015 brings us back to the levels of 2008. That's us. In 2013, Europe definitively lost its world leadership in green technology investments that it had in 2011. We have a drop in investment in renewables by 15%, compared with more than 23 percent in China and the United States and more than 38 percent in India. The Union is not currently on the way to achieving the 2030 target. In addition, the targets for renewables and the efficiency of the 2030 package are not sufficient to reach the target of less than 40% of the greenhouse gases that was set in Paris. This source comes from the Foundation for Sustainable Development. And that minus 40 is not even rated enough because, in order to achieve the Paris targets, i.e. to limit overheating to one and a half degrees, emissions seem to have to be reduced by 50 to 55%. And we're not even tending to be at minus 40. On the other hand, there is an increase in CO2 in contrast with other years. And the projections by 2020 and 2030 provide for further worrying increases. In other words, we will tend towards 2020 and 2030 to increase CO2 emissions and not reduce CO2 emissions. This is the trend. The European target on greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 is not compatible with the new target of 1.5 degrees, according to the same source mentioned above. In its resolution of 6 October (this is another source: the European Parliament) Member States are invited to revise their decarbonisation commitments upwards in response to the Paris challenge. It is also the European Parliament, therefore, that recognises that we are not going in the right direction. According to the Foundation, the new road map is expected to reduce emissions by 50 to 55% for Europe in 2030 compared to 1990, compared with 40% for Europe. So, we absolutely need to speed up the actions. In Italy, it is necessary to activate real decarbonisation policies, because our country is also in countertrend with Europe, which is in turn countertrend. In fact, in 2015 we recorded the highest level of CO2 emissions. This figure, which has been presented to us in the Commission, during hearings with studies, is also due to the ill-advised legislative choices that have caused great damage to renewable energy sources and great favour to the old fossil. We have seen an increase in greenhouse gas emissions in our country, Minister, by 2.5%. This is the result of actions: words remain words and the results of actions are calculated. There are tables, there are statistics, there are studies that talk to us and clearly show us the result of our actions. Between 2005 and 2012, Italy doubled the contribution of RES to energy consumption, bringing it from 8% to 16% and thus going better than the European average of Spain, France and also Germany. Then, however, the renewables had descents (and we told you, when we found ourselves dealing with the decree for Italy, that this would happen). It has gone from an additional production of renewables of 1,000 ktoe of the years 2011-2012 to only 122 additional ktoe of 2015. The report of numbers speaks clearly: it is not talk, it is not sophism and it is not rhetoric. The numbers tell us where we're going. We need a new national energy strategy (SEN), if ever the current one can legitimately be called so; we need a new SEN 2030, with targets that will bring us closer to the Paris commitment: reducing emissions, reducing final consumption and increasing gross final consumption of renewable electricity. According to the IPCC, the remaining carbon budget at 2100, in the 2-degree scenario, is equal to no more than 1,100 Gt; to date more than 2,000 Gt have been issued. According to the IEA (International energy agency), to respect the 2-degree carbon budget, one-third of oil reserves, half of gas reserves and 80% of coal reserves should remain underground. But the carbon budget, revised in the 1.5 degree scenario, is about half the 2-degree one, and therefore, from calculations, should remain underground, Minister, 66% of oil, 75% of gas and 90% of coal. These are the facts. We therefore believe that this ratification is appropriate, even if it is late, but we already feel that a draft revision of the European and national targets for greenhouse gas emissions is urgently needed. We really (and dutylessly) must aim at these goals that cannot be differed anymore. So I hope that Mr Marrakech's appointment will be a real opportunity, even though it appears from the notes of the European Parliament that these things elsewhere are clearer than here in us. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u35	Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u36	Mr President, Minister, the Italian Government intends to ratify the Paris Climate Agreement at the World Conference in Marrakesh from 7 to 18 November. Italy signed the COP21 agreements, on the occasion of Earth Day 2016, the first useful day for the signing of the Treaty. However, ratification in Parliament was also rather slow compared to other Western countries. We are not the last, but we certainly cannot boast about it. The Paris Agreement sets new and more challenging objectives for signatory countries, including the European Union and Italy: to limit the increase in global average temperature well below 2 degrees above pre-industrial levels, pursuing all necessary efforts to limit this increase to 1.5 degrees. This new objective is much more challenging than one might think: stopping the global temperature rise to 1.5 degrees instead of 2 degrees means about half the amount of greenhouse gases that can be released into the atmosphere in the rest of the 21st century. In order to comply with the Paris Agreement, the European Union - and thus Italy - will have to significantly review its climate commitments at 2030. These new objectives alone, however, are not enough. Effective policies and measures for their implementation will need to be put in place which will not be the simple continuation of what is already in place. The high level of ambition agreed in Paris will require innovative approaches and tools that will speed up the process of achieving a sustainable breakthrough for the implementation of what was decided at COP21. Our country, in order to be able to grasp the enormous potential of the current transition and the great opportunity for economic and employment revival it represents, needs to define a certain medium and long-term framework, with clear choices that can trace the features of a new national programme, capable of directing investments, not only of the energy sector but of all the sectors involved in the transition. The alternative scenario will otherwise see the loss of competitiveness of our companies in the global market of the future, where green solutions and technologies will play a major role in the different sectors; energy, construction, transport, urban planning, services, agriculture, forestry and other land uses. It would be very useful to provide a legal basis for the implementation of Article 6 of the Agreement, which concerns international cooperation (on all issues, including mitigation and adaptation) and which includes both market and non-market mechanisms (laws, obligations, prohibitions). This framework will have to be economically sustainable if it is to be achieved. From this point of view, the classic hiccup incentive mechanisms have often shown a lack of efficiency and effectiveness. It is therefore essential to reform the system in order to ensure that this sustainable transition can be financed. Article 4 of the bill authorising the ratification of the Paris Agreement reads as follows: (b) Any financial burden arising from contributions determined at national level, as provided for in Article 4 (2) and (3) of the Agreement referred to in Article 1, shall be authorised by appropriate regulatory measures, after - and I stress later - they have been defined at European level. We could multiply the examples of countries that have become protagonists of these processes, but Italy is losing the train of international visibility and its extraordinary heritage of green economy, soft economy and industrial and territorial skills. According to the conclusions of the European Council, the objective will have to be achieved collectively by the Union in the most cost-effective way possible by reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, both in the sectors covered by the ETS trading scheme and in the other sectors, respectively 43 and 30% compared to 2005; and here is the crucial phrase, the phrase that I think insults us: "by sharing the effort on the basis of GDP per capita". If a pollutant does not produce much GDP, the mechanism is distorted. If a state supports itself with the green economy and has a high GDP, how is it possible to reason in this way? Can we at least do everyone's good and reason in a virtuous way, without taking advantage of those who tai, as they say in my house? It is not the total GDP, but it is the GDP produced and obtained, reduced by the part obtained with the green economy or the GDP produced in a self-supported way. This is the problem. It is okay that there are proportionalitys based on GDP, but not total GDP. We, here, Minister, must raise our voices, we must be heard. Here we focus only on the financial burden and not on the concerted implementation processes already foreseen in Kyoto. Here we move after others, placing only this issue of consideration and not that of benefits, delivering a typically and markedly national instrument such as the contribution determined at national level to an opaque European negotiation, which gave birth to a commitment only numerically, without any element of implementation, and which does not in any way clearly intercept the competitive positioning and the needs of Italy. A first milestone should be an ecological review of taxation which, while respecting fiscal neutrality, profoundly alters the benefits of investing in low-carbon technologies and interventions. There are several instruments and strategies that can be implemented, such as carbon pricing or actions to reassign and eliminate harmful subsidies, to facilitate access to credit and economic support instruments calibrated on the individual technologies. Of course, these are far-sighted visions of the management of an economy, but it is only with a far-sighted vision that we can combine environmental protection, market convenience, technological innovation and development for our country. Italy carries on its genius and research because it has a unique concentration in the world, but we need an awareness that perhaps we do not have here. We need the courage to raise our heads with dignity before Europe; that is the only way it will make sense if we are capable of being the protagonists and not the sheep of Germany. [[Applause from Senator De Petris]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u37	Senator Marinello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u38	Mr President, Minister, we have already heard a number of speeches and we are ready to share and subscribe to some of them. Among other things, I congratulate the rapporteur on the fact that his presentation of the measure has been absolutely clear and understandable to everyone. This morning's debate is being articulated with some auspicious and even redundant reasoning; vice versa we have listened to absolutely catastrophic interventions, which in my opinion do not condone the merit of the measure, but above all do not acknowledge what our Government has done and above all you who in recent years in international negotiations with the other countries of the European Union (among other things, I am witnessing negotiations with countries not members of the European Union) has always played a leading role, especially those who look to the future with intelligence and foresight. We have heard of the disappearance of biodiversity, the destruction of global fauna (about global fauna, we know that the stock of fish resources has fallen rapidly not only in the Mediterranean but also in the oceans), of the reduction of all the systemic resources that allow the life of all species and also of man. To tell you the truth, there is a topic that I care very much about regarding climate change and it is related to the direct consequences that we Italians suffer in the Mediterranean, in particular us Sicilians, which is that of the huge number of environmental and climate migrants. I say this right here in this House, hoping to take the attention of my fellow Members - whom I respect - from the North League and other parties who, in my view, are sometimes a little distracted or even a little slimy on the subject of immigration. The theme of climate migrants is fundamental: there are more climate migrants than war migrants or other phenomena. What is happening in Central Africa or sub-Saharan Africa finds as the only solution (and so will be for the next decades) the path of migration, which is not a new phenomenon, because in its history man has known for millennia the theme of migration. The people of the North, when there were small glaciations, fled to the Mediterranean countries: this gives reason for the barbaric invasions. The peoples of the Scandinavian countries fled at that time across the seas to other shores. This is a phenomenon that cyclically affects humanity, and it is a phenomenon, in the case of climate migrants due to rising temperatures, to which we European populations have a debt: the debt of exploitation that for centuries has guaranteed to the western peoples and after North America a standard of living and growth that has certainly been achieved using the resources and raw materials of other countries that have not only been deprived of those resources and raw materials, but that are now suffering the consequences. And that is precisely why we welcome the government's initiative: because, beyond today's ratification, which acknowledges the allocation of the Green Climate Fund, the ratification that we are going to approve in perfect continuity with what has been done in Durban, Doha and Paris, with the Marrakech agreement will come alive and will absolutely enter the direction of a global agreement of all countries. The objective is that of a solidarity agreement that can offset the interest of the stronger industrialized countries with the weak countries, and that will also succeed in a certain way in abolishing the differential of convenience that has been created in other countries that in the past had not adhered to these international agreements and that in fact has penalized the economies of the Western countries and also the economies of the transforming countries like ours. Mr Minister, I do not want to go any further, because still others after me will speak and also follow the explanations of vote. Certainly well our Government has done: Italy has been the protagonist in Europe, and those who were in Paris have touched with hand the role of our country, in particular on that occasion. Let us continue along this path, because I believe that this is in the interests not only of us, not only of our country, but above all of future generations. [[Applause from Senators Dalla Tor, Finocchiaro and Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u39	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u40	Mr President, citizens, colleagues, Minister, precisely in these days the World Weather Organisation, the UN Weather Agency, has announced that global carbon dioxide concentrations in 2015 have steadily exceeded the (psychological) threshold of 400 parts per million. The CO2 concentrations we have observed today have been the highest for about a million years, as so far seen by paleoclimatic studies. This change in the composition of the atmosphere, together with other upheavals of natural biogeochemical cycles, has led to the definition of the present epoch as Anthropocene (the definition is due to Paul Crutzen, Nobel of Chemistry), that is, a new geological era in which human activities have become decisive for the climate by ending the Holocene, was in which our species developed. I remember that CO2 is the most important of greenhouse gases, but it is not the only one. Other gases must be added which, even in lower concentrations, make a further contribution to global warming (such as methane, nitrous oxide, fluorinated gases, and others), while the cooling contribution of aerosols (fine particulate matter) which have an opposite effect, reflecting sunlight, should be removed, thus cooling the planet. These contributions can be expressed in terms of CO2 equivalent and, from this point of view, the concentrations of greenhouse gases are actually close to 450 ppm, but with the cooling effect of aerosols we go down to about 410 ppm equivalent. Let's remember that at 430 ppm the probability of exceeding 1.5 degrees is already above 50 percent, while the threshold of 2 degrees is exceeded with 530 ppm. We therefore have little time to take serious action: greenhouse gas emissions must go down very quickly. What has so far pushed this negative dynamic most from the industrial revolution to the present day is - let us remember once again - the use of fossil fuels, which have heavily altered the dynamics of the natural cycle of carbon, putting into circulation large quantities so far remained underground in the form of coal, oil and natural gas. Total emissions from the energy and cement sector exceed 35 billion tonnes of CO2 per year. The reason why concentrations are increasing is also due to the fact that the absorption capacity of the biosphere - forests and oceans - does not reach half of what is emitted, and as CO2 remains on average in the atmosphere for longer than the century, this is accumulating producing an increase in temperatures. Moreover, the absorption of CO2 by the oceans - the gas is fixed by algae - is helping to acidify the seas, a phenomenon that arouses great concern among experts about the inevitable consequences on the global marine ecosystem. To avoid the worst - temperature rise scenarios above two degrees centigrade - a rapid reversal of trend is required. The Paris Agreement, reached after twenty-five years of sterile comparisons, has established a general political framework, but the voluntary commitments made so far are not sufficient. The amount of CO2 emissions that would take us beyond the threshold of two degrees centigrade has been estimated at 1,000 billion tons and by the end of 2011 already half of this quantity had been emitted; for this reason the emissions will be almost zeroed in the second half of the century. We will see whether COP22 will maintain the dynamics of the Paris Agreement which will have just entered into force (among other things, with almost a record time and never seen in international environmental agreements) and that is whether the review of the voluntary commitments that must proceed more quickly will make progress. To avoid the worst, there is neither technology nor financial resources: what is short is time and, above all, political will. I address the Government, in the person of Minister Galletti, that we feel too absent on these issues: nature does not hear political reasons. Answers are needed to remove the causes. We need a vision that the Government has no difference in the future, of production tools and consumer goods that no longer use fossil energies and cement but natural and sustainable resources. This is an industrial conversion - and here is the beautiful, dear citizens - which would generate hundreds of thousands of new jobs if we did so. I want to stress this: industrial conversion is not only about saving the planet, it would also generate hundreds of thousands of new jobs, giving back dignity to millions of people who today live in conditions of poverty and uncertainty. But, to date, the Italian Government's policy is not responding adequately To be even clearer, Government and citizens, we are continuing to lose the trains of the present and the future. We have already very painfully missed the photovoltaic train, technology in which we were among the leaders at the beginning, and now we risk losing the electric car train: an incoming tsunami, as the rating agencies even call it, and we are not getting ready. The other countries are preparing, they are more active than us; we continue to have a very short-sighted vision, we are the last of the class of 28 European countries with regard to the encouragement of electric cars. We're also missing this train, Minister. We are equally firm in the face of the necessary conversion from petrochemical to green chemistry (lacks, glues, paints, rubbers, resins, plastics and those who have more to put them; also fertilizers and pesticides). We allow only a few private actors to act as a pioneer, but once again with an absent Italian policy. And it's a sector worth €80,000 billion from here to 2050 (it's European data). Similarly short-sighted, or worse, absent, the Italian policy on the recycling sector; in this case, always according to the sector studies, 170,000 jobs can be created (overall of all supply chains, from damp to large appliances). Again, Minister, we are still. I would remind you that a very important rule to liberalise recycling consortia is firmly enshrined in the draft competition law, which once again remains, not because of the Constitution, but because of the excuse of the Constitution, but of course the majority who listen as a merchant and do not schedule this very important measure. Your policy, the policy of the majority is also firm on measures to re-use the agricultural supply chain (wood and wood), which can bring another 450,000 jobs (data from industry bodies). These measures serve both the environmental part of CO2 capture and soil stabilization and industrial uses of wood. Minister, I would like to hope that at least on the energy efficiency front, from now to the end of the year, you will confirm through the law of stability, the commitments that you personally and the whole majority have made on the ecobonus front, not only stabilising it with pluriannual duration, but thus finally allowing the 14 million Italians living in the condominiums to halve their energy needs, going towards the results of climate protection that we must achieve. In order to do so, we must also propose solutions to the problem of incapience and mere financing. Indeed, if there is no fiscal capacity and economic availability, this will obviously not be achieved. Only by making good policies immediately on these areas that I have briefly recalled will we really respect the commitments made in Paris by taking the classic two pigeons with one stone: we will safeguard the environment and create hundreds of thousands of jobs. Minister, we must act now. We are already very late compared to other countries. Otherwise, as often happens, they will be alone: "Words, words, words." [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u41	She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I extend a cordial greeting to Mr Galletti, who represented us at COP21 in Paris and, as Mr Marinello said, showed that Italy does not want to be a country inferior to anyone. This morning we did very late to extend several speeches on the subject and I would like to restore in a few minutes a little 'truth with respect to some data provided, which are susceptible to some modification. As far as renewables are concerned, it should first of all be said that in our country, according to data of June 2016, the share of production from renewable sources exceeded that from fossil sources. This is reported in the seventh report of the Foundation Symbola and Unioncamere. In addition, however, we boast the world record among industrialized countries for the share of photovoltaics with 8% in the national mix. It must also be said that, when it is said that we are lagging behind ratification, we can say so in relation to the fact that we would have liked world political representation to recover European initiatives well before what it did in the framework of the ratification signed by the two countries that initially had some difficulty in accepting a strong reduction in emissions into the atmosphere. Even as a result of the indisputable data of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), China and the United States of America had to acknowledge that it was urgent to proceed. Therefore, with respect to this need to start together with policies of efficiency and reduction of emissions into the atmosphere we can safely say that we have been lagging behind as European countries especially with respect to the rest of the world. To be fair, we must also say that we are ahead of the deadline for COP21, having signed the International Agreement between 170 countries at the UN on 22 April of this year. Six months later, exactly on October 5 of this year, we have basically already ratified the Agreement: a quantity of countries over 50% (86 out of 170) and a quantity of emissions over 55% - today we are well over 62% - has already ratified this agreement and set in motion that machine that will have to see us in Marrakech, in a few days, finally lay down the action plan for the coming years. Europe has been - I want to say this - a positive example, an element of challenge on the issue of emissions into the atmosphere. This has enabled the United States of America, with Obama, to start, since 2009 with COP15 in Copenhagen, accelerating the importance of sharing this new strategic line functional to the protection of the planet, but also the quality of the well-being of the citizens who live on this planet, in the reduction of emissions into the atmosphere. Europe, in fact, has shown that it can fall by 19% in emissions from 1990 to the present day, and that gross domestic product has increased by 46%. Once again - let me say this - Italy is an example. We are the first European country - not the second or third - to reduce emissions into the atmosphere from an industrial point of view. Our share is not -19 but -28.2% compared to 1990 on industrial emissions. There is a figure that I believe should be delivered because it is particularly important: we have 14.3 tonnes of oil equivalent for every million euro produced; we are, therefore, well below Spain, Germany and France, with 312 tonnes per million euro produced. We are under any other European country, excluding the United Kingdom, whose production is not manufacturing, so we have a reduction of almost 200 tonnes compared to Germany. We have, therefore, objectively an amount of investment in clean technologies that is vastly superior to all other European countries. I conclude with the 107 tonnes of carbon dioxide, the infamous CO2 equivalent per million euro produced. Here too, we are first in Europe with 50 tonnes less than Germany, excluding France, which, as we know, with nuclear power starts from a competitive advantage limited to emissions into the atmosphere. I'll say one more thing. We have been a positive example but we do not boast of it; we say it because we have heard a series of pessimisms that far outweigh the pessimisms of reason. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator. PUPPATE (PD). On 15 October in Kigali, Rwanda, 197 countries - we must say this, Mr President - found an extraordinary agreement, defined by Kerry, US Secretary of State, Arias Cañete, European Commissioner for Climate Action, and Solheim, Executive Director of UNEP, the UN Environment Agency, the largest convention for the reduction of temperature ever reached following the use of hydrofluorocarbons for the operation of refrigerators and air-conditioning systems. Only this will predict a reduction, from 2017 onwards, of half a point in the climate effect from the point of view of greenhouse gases. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator, we're warming up the planet. PUPPATE (PD). We are a towing country, but, at the same time, as is well written in this bill of ratification, like all the towing countries, we must be a positive example to force the hand, to push the accelerator, to make sure that the climate-energy package like the package on the circular economy reach their goals quickly, producing the effects desired by all of us. I would like to say a special thank you to those who, in recent years, have wanted Italy to represent the best in terms of renewable energy and the reduction of emissions into the atmosphere. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u43	The general debate is closed. As the rapporteur does not wish to speak in his reply, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u44	Mr President, I would like to make two brief comments. As for the first, I would also like to express, on behalf of the Government, solidarity and closeness to the municipalities and citizens affected this night by the earthquake, proposing the Government's intention to continue its emergency and reconstruction efforts in the affected areas. As for the second point, I would like to thank the Senate for the speed with which it is preparing to ratify the Paris Agreement. During this week I was able to take part in two meetings of the Commission, one of the Committee on Foreign Affairs (I thank the rapporteur, Senator Verducci, for having reported very faithfully the outcome of the debate we have had), the other, yesterday, of the Committee on the Environment, the Environment and the Environment (I thank President Marinello). This, while respecting the economy of the work, exempts me from performing the reply. I am clearly at the disposal of all the Commissions if they consider that they need to go into more detail on the subject of the Paris Agreement. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u45	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendment, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I put to the vote Rule 1. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 3, on which an amendment and an agenda have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u46	Mr President, Amendment 3,100 calls for a little less stockpiling and a greater contribution to the international Green climate fund, which we support with EUR 50 million a year for three years. It is true that this is our share, but will we not really think of saving the planet, as you said, contributing with only 50 million euros? We expect EUR 500 million, perhaps subtracting it from the bank support fund. I would say that we could safeguard a little less bank and invest a little more money in this issue, which seems more important to me. In fact, climate catastrophe is equivalent to economic catastrophe and, therefore, also to disaster for banks. Economists far more distinguished than I am told. In conclusion, I would urge the adoption of Amendment 3,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u47	The rest of the agenda will be set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendment and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u48	Mr President, I am against Amendment 3,100 and in favour of the G3.100 agenda. I would also point out that the opinion will be opposed to the G4100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u49	The opinion was in accordance with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u50	Let us move on to Amendment 3,100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u51	Mr President, we are asking for the vote. I would also ask that the next vote on the article be taken by electronic means by simultaneous ballot. If that were possible, I would then like to ask the Budget Commission for the explanatory statement to the contrary opinion. Of course, this is a request that you can refuse to answer. I would not mind, however, if the Budget Committee would kindly give me an answer. I'm asking because I don't know and not to argue.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u52	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,100, tabled by Senator Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the agenda for Mr G3.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u55	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I ask that I be able to put my signature on the agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. Senator Piccoli, do you insist on voting? SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr President, I insist on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u58	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). On behalf of all the members of the Northern League Group, I would ask you to add the signature to the agenda for G3.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u59	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.100, presented by Senator Piccoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the debate on Rule 4, on which an agenda has been tabled, and I would ask the rapporteur to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u60	Colleagues, on the agenda for G4,100 I have made commitments which should be consistent with all that has been said in this House by the senators who have spoken. The agenda commits the Government to undertake a path of removal of all subsidies, direct and indirect, to fossil sources, currently distributed in Italy. Is there a need to finance decarbonisation interventions? There are about EUR 14 billion that our pockets every year pull out for coal, oil and all these things. Well, somewhere we have to go and get this money: instead of continuing to say that there are no money, we should think of doing so. We are even talking about a five-year course on the agenda. I do not even ask for this to be done tomorrow morning, but we cannot think of insisting, on the one hand, on decarbonisation and, at the same time, on investing money in something else. Be patient, but this is a matter of consistency. The same applies to the livestock sector. Again, we cannot continue to talk about the sustainability of the economy when we have a continually subsidised economy. Here too, on the agenda, we are talking about a three-year journey, because we must allow a healthy economy to survive without constant distortion. We are talking about China's dumping on our steel, and then we are dumping on our production. Some might argue that dumping could be more or less healthy, because it is intended to subsidise its own economy. Then let us do it right and support the virtuous economy and not the one that is not. We know very well, in fact, that, as far as environmental sustainability is concerned, intensive animal husbandry does not work in any way. However, if you do not like the commitment of subsidies to the livestock supply chain, at least consider that the 14 billion euros allocated to fossil sources shout revenge. The rapporteur cannot be heard - because the representative of the Government has not spoken - who does not say anything on this subject and merely gives an opinion against it. Be patient, if we talk about saving the world and then liquidate the issue with a contrary opinion, frankly something doesn't make sense. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Finally, we also call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means for subsequent articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u61	We greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education "Leopoldo Pilla" in Campobasso, which is witnessing, widely represented, our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u62	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of the G4100, tabled by Senator Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure previously put forward is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure previously put forward is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u65	LIUZZI (CoR). Mr President, the House has shown substantial adherence to the draft law in our examination and the Conservatives and Reformists Group will also vote in favour of ratification, considering that there are all the prerequisites for early but also committing the Government to implement industrial policies which, of course, take into account the need for a strong reduction in greenhouse gases, all called for a national inclination to promote the green economy. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Chiti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u68	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, this is the ratification of an important agreement, although we must point out that it is an almost downward agreement, because it has not been avoided in some countries the maintenance of the exercise of some sort of ecological dumping. There are some production techniques which, while working on price competitiveness, do not protect against environmental consequences. We must also note the difficulty of signing this type of agreement with countries which are developing on paper, but which in all respects are real world powers against which, perhaps, we should be able to impose limits, so that their development does not compromise, from the environmental point of view, the great values that we have today: air, land, sea, water. We must also point out that only a few of the results of the research carried out to understand climate trends have been taken into account in the evaluations made at the COP21 conference, while others have been kept close to even superficial evaluations. From this point of view, we recall that many eminent Italian scholars, including several Nobel laureates, including Professor Carlo Rubbia himself, had made reservations about the technical bases on which these agreements are concluded. In any case, this is an agreement that establishes and signs a step forward, perhaps small but still forward, which could also be more effective. Speaking of the environment, however, we must welcome all the improvements, especially because what we want to defend is the only place in which we can live, that is, the earth. The Group of the North League will therefore vote in favour of ratification in our examination. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u71	Mr Mazzoni (AL-A). Mr President, I would ask for permission to give my speech so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. I shall therefore confine myself to two brief comments. When signing agreements of this magnitude, the precautionary principle urges us to be cautious and to verify commitments at close intervals, so it would be good if the first comprehensive review of commitments took place before 2023. Everything is perfect and improved, but we cannot accept that the Agreement provides for the first time that countries will have to make a real inventory of their main sources of pollution and share them with the rest of the world. They will have to monitor carbon emissions using standard measurement methods and report regularly on progress in reducing carbon emissions. The Agreement also provides for a public and private investment fund for a total of at least $100 billion a year to help low-income countries protect themselves from global climate change threats and invest in clean energy, so as to improve the lives of their inhabitants. In conclusion, I believe that the positive aspects of this Agreement far outweigh the negative or deficit aspects. We can therefore only welcome this bill of ratification, in respect of which the vote of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party will only be favourable. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u74	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say that the Group for Autonomies-PSI-MAIE voted in favour of draft law No 2568 ratifying the Paris Agreement on Climate Change signed on 12 December 2015. It is an agreement that is certainly historic for at least two reasons: the objectives it sets itself, that is to contain in two degrees centigrade the increase of the temperature of the planet (with the possibility, indeed the wish to contain it in 1,5 degrees) and the quantity of the countries that have subscribed and already ratified it. In order to achieve this objective, there has been a fruitful work of coordination, negotiation and finally agreement, which has seen the European Union as the protagonist and this is pleasing at this time of growing Euroscepticism. This agreement has already been ratified by the European Union in a unique and unrepeatable way, which confirms its historical value. This procedure has also been carried out with the commitment of the Member States to speed up ratification and for this reason we are here: precisely for this rapid ratification. The coming years will be decisive in achieving the objectives set and the November meeting in Marrakech is already a first important moment of verification of the results achieved. However, this agreement is only the first step in a long journey that all together, the whole world, will have to make in the coming years. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u77	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we must thank the Senate of the Republic for the fact that Italy will be able to sit fully at the meeting of the Contracting Parties to the Agreement in Marrakesh. I say that we must thank the Senate because the Government, on the other hand, has been responsible, bringing the measure to the Council of Ministers for approval only on 4 October, for a serious and inexplicable delay which, in fact, made us run the risk of participating in Marrakech only as observers. And why have we tried to slow down the ratification process to the very end? Because, ladies and gentlemen, even at European level, we have seen a very ambiguous attitude on the ratification of the agreement, particularly on the part of our Government and Poland. But while Poland, in an official way, has supported the idea of wanting to protect its own development strategy based on coal, we masking ourselves behind the somewhat ambiguous principle of fairness, we have tried behind the scenes to lower the bar of our commitments in cutting emissions so as not to see - as has been said - excessively penalized our country. Well, I think it is precisely this lack of will, strategy and conviction to the full for the ecological conversion of our country by implementing policies really reducing emissions, which risks penalising our country. Instead, we should be at the forefront of efforts to cut emissions, especially because this can be a fundamental contribution not only to the salvation of the planet and to the fight against climate change, but also to our economy. Even at this stage, unfortunately, we have witnessed the usual very ambiguous attitude on the part of the Government - and I address my colleague Mr Puppato - which, in the environmental field, has tried to confuse the waters in recent years, with discontinuous attitudes, studded with declarations full of intent on the one hand and serious measures on the other. I would like to remind you here of some of the choices that have been made and that are contrary to the agreement and the commitments that we must make with this ratification. I quote once and for all the retrospective revision of the energy account, since that record of which my colleague Puppato spoke had already been achieved: in 2012 150,000 photovoltaic systems had been installed and just compare this figure with the number of photovoltaic systems that we now have. I am also referring to the so-called technological neutrality, which is reflected in the constant defence and promotion of fossil fuels, not to mention what has happened and is continuing to happen on the drilling side. Therefore, the Paris Conference produced an agreement which we consider to be characterised by many limitations and also many timidities, but which, however, brought the international community together under a binding commitment to contain global warming below the 2-degree threshold compared to pre-industrial levels, pursuing efforts to limit this increase to 1.5 degrees. The contradictions exist in the Agreement: the individual points of the text are not binding and the plant is affected by the common tendency to limit itself to the instrument of voluntary contributions. Yet it is no longer just the scientific community that has declared itself unanimous on the point of no return that we have reached with climate change. (at 12.30 a.m.) (De PETRIS). The change is before everyone's eyes. I do not want to go back to this, I just want to point out the guilty slowness that exists on the part of governments and businesses: in this context, the limits of the Agreement, which are before everyone's eyes, require the efforts of individual States. For this reason, we turn directly to our Government for a truly different design, without ambiguity. To be clear, it is necessary to formulate clearly the objective of progressively excluding fossil sources from the development model, achieving emissive neutrality in 2050. We need, Minister Galletti, clarity once and for all: we need serious commitments on environmental taxation in order to reduce and eliminate definitively all subsidies to fossil fuels and we need a national energy strategy in line, not in contradiction, with the decarbonisation paths. Serious and real commitments are needed at this point, not the usual ambiguities for which you are making yourselves responsible. Unfortunately, this government often remembers environmental issues when they are useful for exploiting them or when it is not really possible to ignore them, as in this case. The Senators of the Italian Left and of the whole Mixed Group will vote in favour of the ratification of the Agreement, but I think that they serve and will serve a real discussion and precise commitments on the part of the Government, which, unfortunately, so far has shown an approach on environmental policies perhaps worthy of the first industrial revolution. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u80	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, the measure is widely accepted and will be voted by all the groups present. This shows that we are on the right track and, in my opinion, this is a good result. We are not content, dear Minister, and we throw our hearts over the obstacle. Personally I heard music for my ears, when we talked about decarbonization because, being a great advocate of rural civilization, I think, a bit conservative (if not even reactionary), that the model of development was that and that the mistakes in this country were so many, starting with the agrarian reform. Nothing more sustainable than the great southern feud from an environmental point of view, and in this I can partly agree with what Senator Martelli has said, and to this end, as far as I am concerned, the Senate Environment Commission will be willing to think about these issues. So, Minister, let's move on and, at least for once, Italy is in first place. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u83	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we shall be voting in favour of the ratification of this agreement. As my colleagues have already said, we will do so with a number of 'but' and with some great doubts. While it is true that the fight against climate change is one of the objectives of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which entered into force on 1 January 2016, I wonder: who sets these goals? Who sets the timing? And with what participation in decision-making? Well, I believe that in the 21st century it is real and realistic to plan the objectives and path of sustainable development - if we want to continue to call it for convenience - only through participatory and implemented decision-making processes with forms of direct democracy. Delegated democracy on these issues - and also on others, in fact - has made its time. I wonder: what do you think was the first great process of sustainable development in the history of humanity? I think I can say it was the discovery of the fire. The discovery of fire and the ability to replicate it independently represented the first true relationship between man and energy. The sustainable management of that form of primitive energy has avoided a social perspective that is not pleasant and of course I am not just talking about raw foods that we would still find ourselves eating without the discovery of fire. In addition, the domination of our ancestors over fire, direct production and, above all, the shared and liberalised distribution of that energy of the primordial have produced the departure, the start of collective growth. And then, those who manage energy have great power, because energy is the main engine of all forms of economic and social development. If, however, I do not keep this power for myself, but redistribute it fairly in the society in which I live, I have created the conditions for sustainable economic development in fact. If then this same energy is produced with natural elements - a lightning that fires a tree, two acciarini that rub, the sun that illuminates a photovoltaic panel, the wind that moves a propeller - development becomes doubly sustainable. Firstly, because we reduce the exploitation of energy sources with a high impact on the environment; secondly, because we allow the self-production and distribution of energy from renewable and natural sources by individual citizens, families and companies. Try to imagine for a moment what would have happened if the ignition of fire in the primordial era had not been the result of a natural process and simple access, but of a complex technology in the hands of a small caveman group of power, as it is today the exploitation of fossil sources in the hands of a few, large multinationals. Well, I think we would have had a primordial society that, instead of growing in a sustainable and widespread way on the planet, would have anticipated the birth of capitalist society by thousands of years. A society in which a power group, the top management of the energy needed to move the world, conditions the governments and economies of the world itself. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I realize that the industrial revolution, made possible by the use of fossil sources, has enabled us to achieve a very high level of technology, allowing man to jump into impressive knowledge. I also realize that part of the world has reached economic, social and cultural levels that were unthinkable just a century ago, thanks to oil and gas. Also thanks to the resources deriving from the exploitation of fossil sources in some areas of the planet the economic and cultural colonialism imposed by the West for centuries has ended. For these countries, however, being able to replicate an economic and cultural model immediately for centuries does not mean going the right way for the good of one's own people. And then today, on earth and in the 21st century, it is no longer conceivable that an economic and political oligarchy should decide the fate of the planet. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , without considering the social tensions in the thousand and a thousand banlieue of the planet itself, without considering the wars fought in the name of oil and the millions of migrants that an economic model based on profit for profit uprooted from their land and projected towards unknown lands. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] These are the new slaves of an economic model that is not dealing with the immediate future, a future in which the simplification of the technology needed to make economy and produce energy inevitably will make the decision-making models and the subsequent choices more universal, widespread, participated and sustainable. Mr President, I firmly believe that in the third millennium the choices for a proper and genuine sustainable development of the planet and of the peoples who live in it can no longer be imposed from above or from forms of delegated democracy. I am convinced that sustainable development can only be effectively guided by forms of direct democracy. I realize that it is not easy to find formulas that move the government of countries from a democracy delegated to a direct democracy. However, I see no other way: the sustainable development of the planet needs self-production and distribution of energy and decisions deriving from direct democracy. As I come to the conclusion, I think it is important to stress that direct democracy is inevitable. This is what the 5 Star Movement has been proposing to the country since the beginning of this legislature and is one of the necessary political changes that can no longer be postponed, just as the actions to stop climate change are. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u86	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the fact that Italy has signed the Paris Agreement on combating climate change, even if ratification reaches the Senate in extremis. At the same time we note the presence within the critical agreement that, if not adequately monitored, could lead to the failure of the understanding and also translate in negative effects for our country. In the shortness of this explanation of vote, I quickly take up a few points. First of all, the frequency of checks to be carried out five years in accordance with the Protocol in Article 4 (9) should be highlighted. It is true that all the signatory countries have joined a single system of verification of the commitments made, but we believe that the five-year period may lead to deviations that do not comply with the final objective (the first 2020 commitment, which is the verification of the first implementation, is set at 2023). The agreement to monitor updates on commitments made by States is therefore a very sensitive subject, to be monitored continuously together with the update of the overall budget referred to in Article 14. Another critical issue that needs to be highlighted is related to each country's commitments in the European context. Our country has already done so much in the field of efficiency and renewable energy and it is therefore necessary that in the European context rules and objectives are defined for each country marked by the fairness mentioned in Article 4 of the Protocol. The game is open: we urge in this area the definition of appropriate criteria and not to penalise our country, citizens and businesses. In other words, we believe that we must work to ensure that Italy is not given too heavy targets because of the lack of commitment from other countries. We also highlight, as a prerequisite for orderly and productive operation of the results, the need for an urgent update of the National Energy Strategy, since it will necessarily have to complement the commitments made in COP21 and in the transposition of the European Energy Package, finally providing a coherent framework of reference and able to define clear lines of development of this vast sector. Uncertainty, complained on several occasions by public and private operators in the sector, is not conducive to the pursuit of objectives and, above all, does not benefit the economy. "Efficiency" seems to be the most suitable word, to be put on the field with a transversal action in all economic activities, public and private, Italian. One last point. The ratification of the protocol represents an important opportunity for our country to modernise and add efficiency, and together an opportunity for Italian technologies, among the best in the world, to be placed in support of the development of other countries. This is an issue which, in my opinion, we are neglecting and for which there is a need for a strengthening of the commitment. In fact, in the protocol we see a great opportunity for all Italian companies that deal with energy efficiency, production from renewable sources, implementation of new technologies, on the condition that we place ourselves in the perspective of providing adequate administrative and financial support for internationalization. We must enable our own companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, to arrive equipped to operate on foreign markets. In this respect, I have tabled an agenda, which has been accepted and which I hope will quickly be translated into concrete actions. Supporting this type of company contains a high multiplier for our country's economic growth. In the sector, globally, there are commitments of US$100 billion at 2025 for developing countries. On this funding our companies can and must seize the best opportunities by placing on the world market products, systems and methods of management resulting from competence and capacity for innovation. In the light of these considerations and in the awareness that the path of implementation of the Paris Agreement requires the constant active monitoring of the potential criticalities that it may entail, I declare the favorable vote of the Group of Forza Italia. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Bignami. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u89	VACCARI (PD). Mr President, I would also ask you to hand over the written text of my speech so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting, particularly in order to receive the invitation of many colleagues from the territories affected by the earthquake, so that they can leave earlier. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. VACCARI (PD). I would just like to thank the Government, in particular Minister Galletti, for having our country play a leading role in the preparation of this Agreement, which I remind my somewhat forgetful colleagues during the Italian Presidency of the European Union, which has made it possible for it to be ratified today. It is a historic, important and decisive agreement that will enter into force on 5 November, and that will have a first, new test bench in the November Marrakech meeting to see its rapid implementation. As President Obama recalled, no country can do alone to achieve these goals, but certainly the contribution of individuals can make the difference, if inserted in a common vision and it is in this common vision that our country has shown to move, remembering how the industrial system is already changing, because all European countries are already projected towards a circular economy with low carbon emissions, with investments in innovation and new technology that will allow us to achieve the objectives set. We must not, however, fall into the error of thinking that from now on everything is easy and obvious, after the ratification of this Agreement. He reminded us of this, a while ago, a modern and misunderstood politician, an environmentalist and writer like Alexander Langer, and it is with his words that I would like to conclude this explanation of vote, with which I announce the Democratic Party's vote in favour. Alexander Langer told us that if an alternative conception is not rooted (...), and if we do not seek in that perspective the new welfare, no single measure, however rational, will be protected from being obstinately opposed, eluded or simply ignored. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bignami]] Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u92	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u93	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Airola]] Resumption of discussion of draft law No 2568
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u96	SANTANGELO (M5S). We ask, if possible, for the vote to be taken simultaneously by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u97	That is not possible, because the quorum has already been verified. I put the bill to the vote, as a whole. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u100	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, just yesterday morning, at the end of the House's proceedings, our colleague, Mr Airola, made a speech at the end of the sitting in which he denounced the asymmetry of information by newspapers and televisions in favour of the yes to the referendum on 4 December. He quoted President Napolitano, calling him - as you can read in the shorthand report - President emeritus, while he quoted Obama without prioring with any title the name; yet he is not only President of the United States, but also Nobel Prize winner. Therefore, the speech made by President Zanda, who must rinse his mouth, is really out of place, not relevant and, let me say, of bad taste. I also want to stigmatize, again from the shorthand report, that in the middle of the speech my colleague Airola was the subject of "Comments" from the PD Group. So it is clear that, during his speech, the PD Group also made noises, as is often the case. So it's not just the Five Star Movement. In addition, I believe that the judgement expressed by President Zanda in saying that there are people in Parliament without deserved to be there is really offensive, not only for the millions of Italians who voted for the 5 Star Movement, but also for the Institution itself. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I have been a doctor for twenty-nine years and noted in the words of President Zanda, who unfortunately is not the first time he makes this kind of speech, a certain concern, characterized by a certain nervousness tending to persecution. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I can understand the difficulties of a majority leader, unable to support the legal number even today, so much so that several opposition groups came to the rescue or supposedly such, forced to slide from the calendar the measures that really serve the Italians, such as the one on the prescription or a law of stability that does not arrive, as I denounced a few days ago and as Mr Azzollini recalled this morning [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I understand, therefore, the difficulties, but to unload these tensions on the 5 Star Movement and to define vulgar a speech by my colleague Airola that of vulgar just has nothing is, not only for the Leader of the 5 Star Movement, but for all Italians who voted the 5 Star Movement, unacceptable. We reject the charges against the sender. President Zanda, be quiet! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u103	LIUZZI (CoR). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take advantage of this brief space at the end of this sitting to dwell on and to put to the attention of this House an episode that has struck my attention, but - I think - also our sensitivity. Although we live in a country where freedom of the press, of thought and of speech has been won in general, there are countries in the world where in 2016 we still go to prison for a sentence too much, for a story never even published. This happened to Golrokh Ebrahimi Iraee, Iranian writer, sentenced to six years in prison for the never published novel that was found in his computer. The sentence was counted in six years in prison, five years for offense to Islam and one for anti-government propaganda. Well, the story considered offensive of Islam narrated the story of a young Iranian watching on television the movie "The Stoneing of Soraya M", the true story of a compatriot killed in stone, and indignant until he burned a copy of the Koran. In fact, in Iran stoning is allowed by the penal code as it is considered effective in preventing crimes and protecting morality. So those who denounce and are indignant about this inhumane practice are destined to be persecuted. Mr Gasparri, from this Chamber and from these cocktails come to young Ebrahimi Iraee solidarity, esteem and encouragement not to give up. Similarly, our caring and humanitarian gaze goes to caress the frightened and innocent face of Sharbat Bibi, the Afghan refugee with green eyes made famous by photographer Steve McCurry. She was imprisoned on the pretext of falsifying the computer ID in Pakistan. This year in the summer, in the Apulian city of Otranto, an exhibition visited by thousands of people was dedicated to the images of McCurry. There was also the portrait of Sharbat Bibi, today photographed at the threshold of about forty years. It was thus intended to celebrate and witness the closeness to the drama of women annihilated by prejudice, submission and violence.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u106	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to remind you of someone who has been missing today and who has marked the history of Italian television: Luciano Rispoli, a person who very much of us have known and who has been characterized by his seriousness and ability to respect others. As President Zavoli present in this House could confirm, he was a full-blown television man, a kind person, a true gentleman, a man who has always served television without using it as, at times, many do by seeking the audience at any cost. Rispoli respected the others; he respected our country above all. He was an Italian to be proud of and that is why I, who had the privilege of knowing him, wanted to solemnly remember him in this Senate Chamber. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u107	President Casini, you have done very well. The Presidency supports his expression of remembrance of Luciano Rispoli and of condolence to his family. I would add that personally, like many others, I have had the opportunity to share his assessments of serenity, competence, balance, culture and love for Italy. I think that the presidency of the Senate will send on behalf of all a message of condolence to the family members of Luciano Rispoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u110	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, about a year ago, like Italy of values, we presented a question (at the first signature of Senator Romani Maurizio) about the situation of the magistrate Silvana Saguto and her escort. After a year, in September, we were told that Saguti still has the escort that, from the third level (lasted until August 2016), has passed to the fourth level, therefore it has been depowered, and that the protection measures are adopted by the competent public security authority, that is, the prefecture of Palermo. So, in fact, it is recognized that, beyond the serious accusations that are made to the magistrate, one cannot forget that the same has made sure that many assets were taken away from the mobsters as they came out of an entrepreneurship of bad business and business done also with the bosses, except then to ensure that these seized goods were managed in a customer and family way linked to the magistrate. Therefore, the magistrate has the escort with so much armored cars which, however, live by certain rules. The magistrate may still be transported and protected, but inside the car there can be no other subjects, if not familiar, and in any case after evaluation of the escort head. Now, in addition to using these armored cars in the form of taxis, Mrs. Saguti also used escort cops to get personal services done. Now, I understand that there is a certain relationship of friendship with the people who are escorting, but these policemen, who have agreed to carry out certain services, are also in a position of weakness because the magistrate obviously knows the prefect well, is superior to the police themselves, which is why they must derogate from what they should not do and do so. The point, therefore, is always the same, that is, if it is necessary to give the escort to certain subjects, no matter how much they have had value in our public administration; in this case in fact we speak of a magistrate, therefore of an important figure of our system, which in fact, however, has had a questionable behavior so much that it is also under investigation. In conclusion, I do not know how much it is necessary to leave the escort and, consequently, to bear this expenditure perhaps useless.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u113	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, the Chinese are on their way and nothing is sold anymore. Checco Zalone was ironically singing. How can you blame him, colleagues? On August 6, 2014, we asked, with a question to the Minister of Economic Development, if there were no risks and consequences for the economy and the Italian policy on the sale of assets of national strategic interest to the Chinese company State grid international development. We were referring to the transfer to that company of 35% of CDP Reti, which in turn has in dowry important parts of Terna and Snam. At that time we were concerned and asked what consequences the agreement would have in Greece, where China Grid participates as a competitor of Terna in the acquisition of the majority share of the Greek electricity grid operator, with the manifestation of the situation where the parent and subsidiary compete for the same objective; and if the overall strategy of penetration into the Mediterranean area by China had actually been evaluated. The government told us to stay calm, so quiet that, to think wrong, we got it right. In fact, it is news in today's newspapers that the Chinese surpass Terna in the race to purchase the Greek utility. The Chinese giant State Grid presented, that is, the highest offer and won 24 percent of the Greek utility. This was in competition with Terna who, together with the fund F2i, had submitted another offer last week. So we lost! A very negative result for the Renzi Government in a key and strategic sector of national and foreign policy, now sold to the Chinese money. Probably such a result would have made even Enrico Mattei shudder that he believed useful for Italy to achieve a viable political autonomy only if able to have an energy autonomy from abroad. At the moment, we note that this Parliament and this Government are heading in the opposite direction. Ah! Of course, it is all the fault of the Constitution! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u116	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, as you will recall, on 7 July last I was inopportunely removed from the floor in the context of a commemoration (as it was called a posteriori) for a fact which happened in Fermo: preventive censorship. I then went to check it out and I saw that only at the time of fascism had it happened that a Member of Parliament had been taken away before he could express his thoughts. I immediately informed the President of the Senate by letter of this incident, which I consider to be extremely serious, that he would take a position, even more so when the commemoration took place in retrospect on totally false news, since that morning the Senate expressed itself only on the basis of press reports. The follow-up showed that things had gone very differently than they had been told. For months - July, August, September and October - I have been waiting for a response from the presidency of the Senate, which yesterday finally arrived at me. I read about it because I believe it concerns all my colleagues: I, the Senator, inform you that I have sent - the President of the Senate tells me - to Vice President Lanzillotta, out of due knowledge, a copy of the letter and attached documentation that you sent me in connection with a part of the afternoon session of the Assembly of 7 July, presided over by the same senator. According to Rule 8 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, those who regulate the activities of all the Senate's organs and observe the Regulations are the President of the Senate. If a vigilante charges me a fine and I turn to the judge of peace, the latter does not tell me that he has sent my documentation to the vigilante who filled out the fine. President Gasparri, I would like to ask you to convey my comments to the President. I would ask the Presidency to give its opinion on what has happened and how the Senate's Rules of Procedure have been applied. If the President of the Senate sends me a letter in which he writes that my remarks have been sent to the Vice President on duty, let's go back to square one. I would therefore ask you to pass on these comments to the President of the Senate. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u117	Senator Giovanardi, the intervention is a bit irrational, also because if the President of the Senate has made assessments, we must take note of it. In any case, I think you will be able to clarify directly with the President of the Senate, who will certainly take note of this speech, the story that - I remember too - has been dragging since July.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u119	You have it, Senator Di Donno.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u120	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, first of all, my name is not Di Donno, but Donno. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm sorry. WOMAN (M5S). I'll take it. Mr President, I would like to talk about xylella and the alarm that has been launched in the last few days near Ostuni. What's going on? On October 20th in the daily newspaper "La Gazzetta del Mezzogiorno" there appeared an article denouncing that the so-called spitfish, the famous insect vector that transmits the annoying xylella, rests on a single tree, which is located near Ostuni, inside a service station in the locality Rosa Marina. I repeat, only one tree is condemned to death. It is decided, therefore, to break down this tree. The pathology that strikes the olive trees is always that famous spitacchina that, in this case, would have crossed kilometers and kilometers to rest, I repeat, on a single olive tree. Randomly, it seems that the insect has taken refuge in a car or under or over the tarp of a truck from an infected area. These are the words of a professor emeritus of plant pathology, Giovanni Martelli. The point is that xylella (or spit) doesn't travel alone. Not only is this really ridiculous, but it is really absurd that xylella can be spread through something, unless there is the man's hand leading the way. It would be funny if it wasn't really to cry. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Donno, I invite you to conclude. WOMAN (M5S). I will finish, because it made me waste a few seconds at the start of the surgery. These are not the issues to be addressed. We must continue to watch over and above all prevent the usual hand of man from continuing to desert those lands, which are rich and want to continue to produce. They are the same lands martyred by the will of man and - above all - this Government that continues to mercenize and exchange our products with the fetechia of the international world.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-711.ana.u121	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.10 a.m.
