ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-568.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 26 January. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-568.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-568.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question to be asked will be 3-02026 on the abolition of railway routes in Liguria for safety reasons. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-568.ana.u4	Mr President, as reported by the Ministry of the Interior, the railway police, also in coordination with the other police forces territorially present and in continuous synergy with the Italian State Railways Group, carry out daily services at the station and on board the train, as well as along the line, to ensure the safety of both travellers and railway staff. This activity is also oriented towards the safety of traffic and railway infrastructure, in view of the strategic nature of this sector of mobility for the country. In fact, there are more than 3.5 million people who daily transit in over 2,500 Italian stations and over 8,000 daily convoys circulating on national railway lines. The majority of episodes of aggression consist of insults and threats against the operators of the State Railways during the operations of control of the travel licences on board the trains. Sometimes such situations degenerate into beatings that can cause injuries of varying gravity. In the most striking cases, the aggressiveness also pours out on the police personnel who intervene to provide timely assistance to the staff of the State Railways attacked. In almost all of the incidents in question, those responsible are arrested and referred to the judicial authority by both the operators of the railway specialty and those of other police forces. As the problem under consideration is increasing at national level, this has resulted in a strengthening of services, especially on those trains and in those routes where major problems have been identified. Moreover, on a monthly basis or at the onset of sudden recrudescences of the phenomenon, the convoys considered critical on the basis of the frequency of confirmed criminal episodes are identified, together with the members of the State Railways. This analysis, of course, is carried out in order to plan targeted services aimed at combating the phenomenon where it is more frequent. In relation to the elements of knowledge thus acquired, the railway police arrange to carry out targeted stocks on the reported convoys, as well as services in the railway ports concerned by their transit, thus creating an effective filtering device already at the time of departure. In the context outlined, information and operational synergies with railway undertakings, as well as available technologies, are essential, both as a deterrent factor and for the identification of potential perpetrators of illegal acts. In this regard, I would like to point out that the emergency telephone number 1600 is in place, which directs railway staff to the nearest railway police operating room to ensure more immediate intervention by patrols and that certain trains and railway stations are equipped with video surveillance systems. Having said that, it is evident that, in 2015, the railway police, with its 4,412 operators, carried out at national level 200,209 surveillance services in the station, has escorted 107,141 trains, has carried out 15,824 anti-burst services in civil clothes; has also carried out 30,164 patrols along the line and 1,179 extraordinary services of control of the territory; has taken in total 1,468 people under arrest, investigated 14.133 in state of freedom and 828,006 subjected to control. Thanks to the safety device prepared and the overall activity carried out by the specialty in the railway field, in 2015 there has been a reduction of the episodes of predatory crime, with a decrease of the total thefts of 15 percent. The other crime figures for the same period show a decrease in some phenomena (copper thefts: -31 percent; damage: -7 percent; launch of objects against trains: -13 percent; fraud against railway undertakings: -18 percent) with an increase instead of attacks on railway staff (while aggression against travellers is reduced to 14 percent). As for the situation in Liguria, in the period January-December 2015 32 attacks were reported on railway personnel, whose authors, in 50% of the cases, were identified and referred to the judicial authority. During this period, 11,822 station surveillance services were carried out by the 250 railway police officers in service at the specialty offices dependent on the offices belonging to the Polfer compartment for Liguria, with 3,986 trains escorted and 750 carry-on services in civilian clothing; in addition, 1,201 patrols were carried out along the line and 18 extraordinary control services of the territory; in total 59 people were arrested and 359 people were investigated in the state of freedom, while 30,261 persons were checked. This has led to a reduction in predatory crime in Liguria, with a fall in total thefts of 14 percent. In addition, there has been a decrease in some phenomena (copper thefts -14 percent; damage -13 percent; launch of objects against trains -25 percent; fraud against railway undertakings -66 percent) with an increase in attacks on railway staff, while aggression against travellers has been reduced (less 25 percent). Finally, it should be pointed out that more recently on the routes at risk signalled by the State Railways, escorted with continuity by the railway police, no particular criticalities have been found and thanks to this no cancellation of trains was necessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-568.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-568.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-568.ana.u7	Mr Albano (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Government and the Undersecretary for their comprehensive response. However, I would like to take this opportunity to recall once again the need to ensure adequate safety measures and adequate staff to the sector for the protection of public transport workers and passengers. Therefore, I trust in a considerable increase in staff in the different railway police stations, contrary to the policies of reduction and rationalization applied, which have seen the impossibility of providing adequate work shifts, due to the shortage of staff that occurs when part of the staff is not in service for the enjoyment of legitimate permits, such as maternity, illness or placement in expectation. The government continues to work to promote the use of public transport, to improve the environmental quality and livability of our cities but, for citizens to use them in all serenity, they must have greater guarantees in terms of safety, especially at night. In addition, I trust that it will not happen again to be in the situation of last summer, in which it was feared the abolition of some races in the railway transport precisely because of the lack of adequate safety measures, with everything that follows in terms of economic damage and reduction of the services to the citizens, since, as has been emphasized today, this affects a huge volume of traffic. The data provided also show a reduction in theft, pickpocketing and violence near the railway stations and on the convoys, but it remains the alarming fact that, as you rightly said, Mr Undersecretary, only half of the perpetrators of such criminal acts are identified and referred to the judicial authority. Let us welcome the necessary and fruitful collaboration with the State Railways in the identification of the most endangered convoys and the consequent prevention activity, but - I repeat - this must become a good practice permanently applied, not only a temporary intervention as a result of terrible episodes such as those occurred last summer.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-568.ana.u8	Following is the question 3-201937, on the malfunction of the air conditioning system of the Galleria Borghese of Rome. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-568.ana.u9	Mr President, I am referring to the question by which Senator Scalia, in reporting the contents of a press article on the Galleria Borghese di Roma, and in particular to an alleged malfunction of the air conditioning system of the museum, asks to know the initiatives of the Ministry to solve the problem of air conditioning in general and the problem of the preservation of the "Deposition of Christ" of Raphael, in particular. I would first like to report that in the past years two powerful humidifiers have actually been denounced by the same direction of the Galleria Borghese, the serious situation relating to the air conditioning system, so much so that in the Sala di Raffaello two powerful humidifiers have been installed, aimed at recreating, in the best possible way, a microclimate more suitable for the preservation of the tables. I would like to stress this particular point, which means that the problem was well known and has not been ignored. On the conservative situation of Christ's "Deposition" were carried out, in fact, regular periodic reconnaissances by the Higher Institute for Conservation and Restoration, the last of which one year after the previous. According to the technicians, the careful visual examination did not emerge new lifts or falls of the pictorial film. It should be recalled that the numerous ripples and bulges visible on the surface of the painting have been present for a long time and appear rather linked to ancient modifications of the planarity of the pictorial layers; phenomena probably due to the ancient system of parking and that represent the outcome of the extremely complex and troubled historical-conservative events of the famous painting. Vicende that I would like to recall briefly: the famous table passed between different hands of restorers, moved in 1608, just by Cardinal Scipione Borghese, from the inside of the church of San Francesco in Prato di Perugia to Villa Pinciana in Rome, not hesitating to drop it at nighttime from the walls of the Umbrian masterpiece; it was later transferred to Palazzo Borghese; therefore in the nineteenth century it was moved several times between the residences of Turin, Paris and Rome. It is no coincidence that in 1972 a system of vertical fittings was studied during a famous restoration curated by the then Central Institute of Restoration, which anchor the painting to the frame, ensuring that the weight is distributed in a balanced way on all the support, but leaving at the side ends of the table greater mobility and thus preserving it from the risks linked to a more rigid constraint of the entire surface. This system, together with the protective screen consisting of a sheet of mylar (a transparent polyester film, flexible and exceptionally strong and durable) placed in the area behind it, so as to minimize the impact of microclimatic stress on the work and reduce its impact on wood, seems to have played a decisive role in the preservation of the work, even under extreme microclimatic conditions such as those in the room. As regards the problem of the lateral curvatures of the work, in the parliamentary act an opinion is recalled, expressed by Dr. Hermann Fiore, according to which such curvatures would have gone from 1.5 to about 12 cm; these statements are revealed, from the instrumental data, as well as the visual examination of those who know the work, completely erroneous. The diagnostic examinations periodically carried out on the painting by the physics laboratory of the Higher Institute for Conservation and Restoration clearly document that the so-called boarding arrow, that is the curvature of the lateral parts of the painting, corresponds to about 27 mm, thus equal to 2.7 cm, and is therefore far less than the improbable size (of 12 cm) reported in the print article. To be precise, the deviation of 24.20 mm occurred in the chronological interval between 2004 and 2010, the further increase of 3 mm occurred over the last five years. With regard to the microclimatic situation, the competent Special Superintendence for the historical, artistic and ethno-anthropological heritage and for the museum pole of the city of Rome has proceeded to guarantee the constant and full functionality of the air conditioning system, with consequent cooling of the rooms of the museum, through the replacement of obsolete components. Compatible with the available resources, to date, the new components of the cooling apparatus have already been installed. It has also been acquired the project for a new system of air conditioning of the rooms, in the pursuit of the main institutional duty that is that of the preservation of the works, for which it is essential the realization of an optimal microclimatic system, so as to guarantee the best preservation of the masterpieces contained in the museum. In the room where the "Deposition of Christ" is exposed, as mentioned above, humidification plants have already been installed to make the microclimate suitable for the presence of paintings on wooden support.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-568.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-568.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-568.ana.u12	SCALIA (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Subsecretaria for the answer I find satisfactory. My question, as you mentioned, was inspired by a cry of alarm launched by the former director of the gallery Borghese, Professor Fiore, about a malfunction of the air conditioning system. The damage to the "Deposition of Christ" by Raphael is not attributable to the malfunctioning of the plant, covering a time span of years, as we have just been reminded. The poor functioning of the plant, however, put at obvious risk the state of preservation of all the works and the collection of that museum. I realize that the question dates back to May last year, when it had not yet explained its effectiveness the reform of the governance of the museums of Minister Franceschini that, I believe, is also at the origin of the exceptional increase of visitors and receipts recorded during 2015. I thought it was obvious that the answer would be a overcoming of the critical complaints, given the new attention this Government has for the preservation of our heritage. I hope, however, that this question will remain a testament to the state of degradation in which, for years of government, the preservation of our historical and artistic heritage has been thrown under the banner of the principle that with culture we do not eat. It is an area in which, as I said, the Renzi Government has marked a radical change. It is an area that can be important, also for the revival of our economy, but it is above all an area in which we have clear responsibilities. We have a duty to humanity to preserve an extraordinary and immense heritage which we are given to guard, and we must do so on behalf of humanity. It is a serious responsibility of which this Government obviously feels the weight, but which has unfortunately been left in the past years absolutely second floor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-568.ana.u13	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-568.ana.u14	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 2 February, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.23 a.m.
