ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:02 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting until 9.25 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.05 a.m. and resumed at 9.25 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u6	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u9	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, let us renew the request for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting until 9.46 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.26 a.m. and resumed at 9.46 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u11	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u14	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, let us renew the request for a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u15	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u16	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u17	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:48 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u18	The Conference of the Leaders has established the reversal of the order of the topics previewed from the current calendar in the sense to anticipate in the afternoon session of Tuesday 26 January the beginning of the examination of the decree-law on the cession to third parties of the ILVA company. The discussion of the motion Centinario, Romans Paul and others of distrust to the Government will take place Wednesday 27, at the conclusion of the examination of the aforementioned decree-law. The other topics already included in the timetable of proceedings remain confirmed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u19	The next item is the report by the Minister for Justice on the administration of justice. After the Minister's speech, the debate will take place, the timing of which has been decided by the Conference of Presidents of the Groups. I call the Minister for Justice, Mr Orlando.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u20	Mr President, Senators, a country, a city, a territory marked by conflict and with controversy is not in a position to give itself a strategic horizon; it is unable to make the best use of the resources and energies available. It is unable to find new ones and to determine a process of growth. This, I believe, is true in every area of civil, social and institutional life. Justice has long been the terrain of a confrontation, at times even dramatic. Italy has divided on the use and address of justice, control and the perimeter of justice. The divisions prevented it from reflecting on the new time that jurisdiction is called upon to face, in an age of great opportunities, but at high risk, an era of globalisation of rights, but also of global threats to the rights of individuals and the whole of mankind. I claim to this Government and to the Ministry of Justice the merit of having contributed to closing that phase and of having started a different climate and, in this climate, a reflection among the subjects of jurisdiction, in public opinion and among all those who have spoken on the subject. Despite the limitations and difficulties that are still evident, the justice service is beginning to be the subject of a calmer confrontation, as part of a wider debate on the fate of our democracy. After years of controversy, which have condemned our country to the exclusion, there is today a different and more vivid sense of responsibility that we must all assume in order to return efficiency to the service of justice, respecting the rights of citizens and in the interest of the economic and civil development of the country. As I claim the merit of a changed climate, thanks to a constant search for confrontation, I believe it is my duty to thank all those who have contributed, even with some dialectic harshness, to this common reflection: the judiciary, the lawyer, the judicial staff, the political and social forces. The care of the Republic - I use the words of President Mattarella, to whom I address my respectful greeting - is the commitment of every day, but also the commitment for a long time, in many respects new, in which Italy, Europe and the world are entering. The different climate has allowed us to intervene in areas that have so far been too neglected, such as civil justice and the organisation of justice; areas that, however, give meaning and effective content to the word citizenship. The different climate has allowed and allows us to return to investing and starting new forces, and this is all the more important at a time when new reasons for concern are emerging. Globalisation has led to the opening of a completely new space in which to project, but it has also weakened the old instruments of the national states. No historical process is simple and linear; no one, unfortunately, looks in one direction. Each segment of the State administration is therefore exposed to this new event. Of course, jurisdiction is shown to you. A weaker state is more vulnerable than criminal phenomena that often cross borders. For this reason, the answer must be twofold: on the one hand, with a view to recovering efficiency; on the other hand, it must seek to find a new transnational dimension. One thing supports the other. The recovery of the efficiency of Italian justice is not a subject that should only fascinate scholars of public organisations, but is a decisive political resource for a state that wants to fulfil its fundamental tasks. The first of these is linked to the security of citizens. The main threat that our country, as well as other countries of the European Union, must face today is that of jihadist terrorism, a threat that puts pressure on criminal law and public security; a threat that presents itself with original characteristics, linked to the instability of the international scenario, to new ideological and doctrinal profiles, to new possibilities of dissemination through the network. It is a challenge that puts the rule of law to the test, but from which the rule of law, and therefore the jurisdiction must emerge stronger. We have done our part by intervening on the internal order, recognizing the dangerousness of propaedeutic and functional conducts to the terrorist activity. A careful analysis of the phenomenon has in fact highlighted the need to outline new figures of crime. We have thus anticipated the threshold of punishable conduct already clearly oriented towards the fulfilment of terrorist acts, such as passive recruitment, self-training, financing and organisation of travel for the fulfilment of acts of terrorism. The use of the web has also been configured as an aggravating circumstance of the crime. We believe, however, that this battle will only be won by strengthening cooperation between States and with the European Union, because a global threat is met with instruments built at least in the continental dimension. That is why we are working to strengthen cooperation in the fight against terrorism and to intensify exchanges of information and investigative experience, particularly in relation to the phenomenon of foreign fighters. In this sense, for example, last month I went to Albania together with the National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor: a strategic area in order to effectively combat terrorism, and historically a crossroads of illicit trafficking. Italy was one of the first signatories of the Riga Protocol, ready for parliamentary ratification. Italy has supported the Commission's proposal to make punishable the conduct of those travelling for terrorism purposes, both to conflict zones and to return to their homeland. Italy supported the French proposal to criminalise one of the main sources of funding for international terrorism: illicit trafficking in cultural goods. The draft legislative decrees adopted by the Council of Ministers last November are also aimed at implementing as many framework decisions adopted by the Council of the European Union, the area of judicial cooperation between States in criminal matters. The reform of the eleventh book of the Code of Criminal Procedure is urgently needed to update the instruments of bilateral cooperation, which has long been in Parliament's attention. Unfortunately, however, it is disappointing that in Brussels - and I consider this to be a failure of the Union's integration process - no significant steps have been taken towards the European Public Prosecutor; an effective, independent prosecutor with real powers of inquiry. Unfortunately, at least for now, resistances, mistrusts, inertias and jealousy prevailed. No autonomy of the prosecutor in relation to the Member States, very limited powers of investigation over a very limited area of crime: this, in short, is the empty shell remaining after a strenuous confrontation. That is why, on behalf of Italy, I said no to a body that would only hinder the activities of the national judicial authorities. There is a point beyond which the low intensity of solutions is only a hypocritical coverage of national selfishness. We have recorded the same limitations in the negotiations on the regulation on the reform and strengthening of Eurojust, a fundamental instrument also for combating the smuggling of migrants: the text prepared by Italy during the Presidency is now in the European Parliament. I note with realism, but not with resignation, the European difficulties and for this reason we have given considerable impetus to bilateral cooperation with third countries: the Italian Government has concluded numerous agreements on judicial and criminal assistance and extradition with Algeria, Egypt, Libya, Morocco, Tunisia, Nigeria, Lebanon, the United Arab Emirates, Montenegro, Kosovo, China, Vietnam, Mexico and Panama. These agreements allow cooperation in combating terrorism and organised crime. It is precisely elements related to terrorism that demonstrate in a dramatic way a phenomenon that we should have grasped to the full and well before: the need to strengthen supranational jurisdictions. Indeed, global powers are capable of affecting people's lives, regardless of any democratic legitimacy. They delay, displace and sometimes empty the role of national courts. I am referring to the large financial and economic centres, the large computer networks which, by their very nature, tend to evade the control of legitimacy. Our commitment has been to strengthen and support all supranational jurisdictions to which Italy adheres. That is why we very much welcome the appointment of Guido Raimondi to the summit of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. However, terrorism and hateful incitement are also fought online, which is why I have met the Minister of Justice with several Internet and social media platforms. Criminal repression alone is not enough. It is necessary to urge forms of self-discipline to reduce the availability of material containing terrorism apology and online hate speech. The commitment to terrorism must not, however, mean - it is worth repeating - giving up even a millimetre on the ground of the constitutional principles on which the dense fabric of freedom that innerces our democracy depends. That is the good we defend. We are convinced that the fight against international crime must not make us give up the greater achievements of civilizations in terms of guaranteeing and protecting rights: the stronger the challenge and the more ambitious the instruments of contrast, even cultural ones, must be to face it. We are not struggling to get out of a period of economic and social crisis to get ourselves into a crisis of civilization. European intellectual and political progress, after the traumas of the first half of the twentieth century, has gained the constitutionalization of a legal space centered around the full ownership of human rights. We cannot and do not want to give up on this distinctive feature of ours. We cannot and do not want to stop being that region of the world in which the recognition of human rights is deepest and deepest rooted: being European means considering this area of freedom and equality as one's own home. The generations who have given us this legacy cannot be betrayed; it is our duty to enrich this system of rights and guarantees. Europe - said one of its greatest living intellectuals, George Steiner - is its cafes: from the place of Lisbon loved by Fernando Pessoa, to the cafés of Odessa frequented by the characters of Isaak Babel', from the cafes of Copenhagen, those in front of which Kierkegaard walked in his meditabond wandering, up to those of Palermo. After the events of Paris, we must say it with the utmost determination: we do not want or need to close just one of those coffees. We don't have to or want to ask a Jew not to wear a kippah; we don't have to or want to ask a girl to change clothes, hairstyles or lifestyles. Senators, the Government has guided its action in the field of justice to a constant dialogue with all political and parliamentary forces, especially in addressing aspects that I consider urgent and indifferent. I am referring to the overcoming of the prison emergency, the launching of the mandatory telematic civil process and the dismantling of the civilian backlog. On all these aspects we touch with hand the progress achieved: the overcrowding is substantially eliminated, the civil process of first and second degree is telematic in all its phases and throughout Italy, the civil backwardness is being reduced, thanks also to the fruitful work of Parliament and the Commissions, who have worked on these matters more than on others, as evidenced by the data relating to the draft laws fired. Therefore, may my most heartfelt thanks go to all of you. Since my establishment, I have insisted on one concept: standards, even the best, are not enough if they are not supported by organizational measures. It is precisely the process of globalisation, the introduction of new technologies in all areas of human life that makes the time factor even more essential. It is a matter of not granting anything to efficient rhetoric or corporate ideology but of guaranteeing a right that does not rely on effective and rapid organizational mechanisms becomes dead letter. Thus, for administrative staff, policies have been launched which, for the first time, after more than twenty years, allow concrete relocation and retraining activities. More than 4,000 staff will be employed in the next two years, 450 have already served in the judicial offices. We have reformed the Ministry's structure in depth, reducing management positions by 40% and simplifying and reorganizing departmental structures, achieving expenditure savings of €64 million. We couldn't have asked others to change if we hadn't done it first. It is my firm belief that the administration must be defended with great determination, certainly not mortified or dismantled. The staff who serve justice escapes in its vast majority the stereotypes often used against civil servants. With more than 9,000 staff gaps and the absence of retraining interventions for more than a quarter of a century, the administrative staff managed to guarantee the functioning of the jurisdiction. That is why we have decided to put more resources into it. The public administration defends itself above all by making it work, giving it back the sense of the mission it is invested in. I would like to give two examples of organisational and indicative intervention in the innovation process initiated. The first concerns the functioning of judicial offices. So far it has worked that those who spent, that is the municipalities, did not coincide with those who paid, that is, the Ministry: a mechanism that produced waste and imbalances. The new model of management of the expenditure transferred to the Ministry allows efficiency and savings for the State and at the same time a more uniform distribution of the costs on the territory. The second example is the office of the trial that gives the magistrates a dedicated staff of collaborators. The trial office can have a positive impact on the organisation of the judge's work and on the disposal of the backward. The interns are gonna be in the trial office. More than €17 million was allocated in 2015 alone. These days, however, the procedures for granting the first scholarships are being completed. An investment that focuses on young people must not go quietly. Moreover, there is no change in organizational models, management modules, regulatory schemes that work if it does not also introduce new energies. In the next month 311 judges will enter into service winners of the competition held in 2013. Operations are underway to correct the tests of the next contest for 340 places and a new call for competition for 350 units was published in November last year. The Italian judiciary also faces a phase of change and not only generational change. The Supreme Council of the judiciary, with which a positive dialogue is under way, is called to guide this change. It is precisely in these weeks that the self-government body has received an encouraging signal: the crystal roof is breaking, which for a long time has prevented women from leading important judicial offices. The Italian judiciary is about half composed of women, but this percentage is not found in management posts at all. I believe that the reform of the WSM electoral law should include instruments that promote gender equality. The reforms in place call for a review of the judiciary and the functioning of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. We believe that we must ensure that the body of self-government is more representative, that the disciplinary section is properly third, that the Council's procedures are speeded up and transparent. For this reason, two Commissions were set up at the Ministry to collect opinions and proposals on legal changes, access to the judiciary, the method of election of the Council, disciplinary offences and incompatibility. This work will not only remain a subject of study. It is also necessary to reform the honorary judiciary, which is currently being discussed in this area of Parliament. It is a long-awaited reform, which finally establishes a single statute of the honorary magistrate and enhances a figure on which a large part of the jurisdiction has long been held. The wealth of legal culture that belongs to the legal profession is indispensable patrimony of rights that a country enjoys. For this reason, the past year we have dedicated great commitment to dialogue with the lawyer. This dialogue has given us important results: without the collaboration of the lawyer, the departure and development of the civil and telematic process would have been impossible. For my part, I can say that I have maintained my commitment to continue the path of dejurisdiction and secured stable financial support for the assisted negotiation of arbitration. The profession of lawyer is changing, he is specializing, he is opening up more and more to international confrontation. On the subject of legal training and access to the profession, I started a discussion with the Ministry of University and Research, which will soon be completed. The regulations adopted and those being adopted will serve to re-orient the profession, according to the needs of a more open, more dynamic and more competitive society. I am sure that the path, which is not always easy, will continue and arrive, in the course of this year, at the entry into force of the whole reform of the forensic system. With this work we have crossed a third path between corporate approaches, which in the past have marked the world of professions, and a market approach, which would claim to equate the protection of fundamental rights with the provision of some service that can be evaluated in terms of quantity and price. I said before Italy comes back to investing in justice. I provide an overall figure: compared to 2014, the Ministry of Justice will be able to count on additional resources for a billion euros, available not only for the programming of the interventions of the year 2015, but also for the biennium 2016-2017. This is an objectively exceptional figure, given the budgetary constraints with which we are confronted. In this way we also support reforms with investments and resources, freed from the elimination of waste and inefficiencies. Investment is making it possible to move from words to deeds in many areas: in policies for mobility and retraining of staff, in computer programs, in the reorganisation of justice services, in incentives for legalisation. For the first time, then, the Ministry of Justice assumes direct management of European funds; a commitment, I said, that is producing results that I want to take into account. I start from the side of civil justice, which has been and remains the center of the reformative action of the Government, because the citizen, the family and the enterprise form in this area their deep perception and their sense of justice. The digitalization of justice has allowed us to launch the data warehouse of civil justice, that is the complete plaque of all the Italian litigation and the measurement of the performances of each office, accessible to the online public. It is the largest transparency operation of a public administration, which thus makes itself evaluable through objective parameters. Finally, the database and the measurement of performance is a prerequisite for the implementation of the Strasbourg plan, which aims to attack the ultra-three-year backwardness, i.e. the one at risk of Pinto law. For the Ministry it was a very useful tool for the investment of resources and to deepen the causes of the difficulties in many judicial offices, which I started to visit personally. I hope that it will be equally useful for the self-government body, both for the evaluation of the activities of the magistrates required to carry out managerial functions and for the identification of priorities in the appointments of the offices still vacant. The heavy backward, which paralyzes the activity of the Italian courts, despite the high productivity of the magistrates, is in constant decline. The 2015 figures attest to a tendency to reduce the registration of new causes, which hopefully leads to a further decrease in slopes, which are expected to have reached 4.2 million at the end of 2015 and fall even below 4 million at the end of 2016. I say "even more" because at the end of 2009 there were 6 million pending proceedings, i.e. 2 million more. The goal of falling below 4 million business shares indicates a turning point in the system, since it means aligning the backward to the annual definition capacity, which stands at around 3.8 million business. The international rankings return the image of a country in sharp improvement. In the "Doing Business" report, edited by the World Bank, Italy gains 13 positions on the commercial dispute. The improvement is primarily due to the computerization of the justice service. This is a top priority for this Dicastery, which this year invests around 150 million Euros: twice as much as last year, three times as much as in 2012. The same annual ranking above puts the telematic civil process between the two most important reforms carried out in Italy last year. Thanks to it, the justice service is objectively at the forefront in Europe and at the forefront also in the processes of computerization of public administrations in our country. It is right, in this case, to look at the numbers: the 3,5 million documents filed by the magistrates or the 15 million telematic communications, with an estimated savings of 53 million euros. However, it is necessary to talk about a profound cultural change that is taking place, which affects everyone: judges, lawyers, chancellery staff. The culture of the country lies not only on the highest levels of the noblest creations of the spirit, but lives on the lowest levels, thanks to the technological support and the real infrastructure in which it is inscribed. Computerization means, of course, saving money, but it also starts a different thought of the world and society, to which we must be able to prepare ourselves. It's a little pride for me not to see the long ranks of practitioners in front of the gate doors anymore. There is a reform of the Code of Civil Procedure, which aims at a robust simplification of procedural forms, currently under consideration by the Chamber's Justice Commission. It provides for the strengthening of the business court, which plays an important role in the country's international reputation. This institution has shown to work and the data are extremely positive: in the first two years of its operation, 80 has been defined for sure about the business received. Data confirmed by the progress of the first half of 2015. The same bill provides for the establishment of the court of the person and the family, an essential instrument for the protection of fundamental rights. Finally, I am thinking of the whole sector of bankruptcy, to which we will change the word, in order to remove the social stigma that accompanies it from the business crisis. The draft law submitted to the Presidency of the Council reaps the benefits of the work of the committee, which I set up a year ago. The approach will no longer be traditional, i.e. sanctioning and declaring bankruptcy. The approach will rather be to prevent the crisis. It anticipates the analysis of situations of difficulty, with procedures that allow to intervene on business realities not yet completely compromised. It will aim to preserve as much as possible the entrepreneurial and financial assets of an enterprise, ensuring, as far as possible, the continuation of production and the maintenance of the workforce. Here I want to repeat my firm conviction. It is well known that the modern economy is born in the legal and moral sciences and it is not a casual birth. ==References====External links==* Official website Of course, economic interest and the value of justice do not coincide, they do not identify, but they do not necessarily have to conflict for this. The reforms we are carrying out, I believe, demonstrate this. They prove, that is, that the righteous can be useful, can be useful to the community, can realize the general interest of the country and the utility, on the other hand, can be pursued in compliance with the norms of justice. When, on the contrary, these norms exist and work, all civil life, not only economic life, takes advantage of them. The special commitment that we have dedicated to the civil side has not, however, been at the expense of the criminal side on which our country often, for historical reasons, has the nerves discovered and ends up giving in to simplifications and exploitations. Waves of criminal populism end up losing sight of the merit of things. Now, this government has introduced many significant innovations in criminal matters. Without polemics, aiming for the end and compondering the instruments. Statistical data for the 2014-2015 judicial year show a decrease in entries and gradients and an increase in definitions, both at first and at second degree. These are positive signals, which counters concern about data relating to prescriptions. This is the subject of the bill approved in the House of Deputies which I hope will also be approved in the Senate soon. In the same branch of Parliament, it looks forward to examining the overall reform of the criminal process. The text tends to combine the strengthening of defensive guarantees with the reasonable duration of the process, through a series of innovations aimed at simplifying it, strengthening the use of alternative rites, redefining the premises for the appeal, deflating the different degrees of judgment starting from the Cassation. On the criminal front, there has been a strengthening of the instruments for combating corruption. The Government has therefore extended the operation of the offence of concussion also to those in charge of public service; it has introduced a reward mechanism for those who collaborate with justice and aggravated the ancillary penalties in case of conviction for crimes against the public administration; it has introduced the new institute of economic repair; it has revised in depth the false in budget, in order to eliminate areas of shadow and areas of non punishableness. The UN Agency dealing with the fight against corruption has noted the legislative progress made by our country and the full implementation of international conventions in this area. The Government has also accompanied the parliamentary work in the reform of the political-mafia exchange vote and in the rewriting of the anti-mafia code, continued also on the basis of the government bill approved in August 2014 and now under examination of the Senate. Parliament's work on this whole issue is essential. The fight against organised crime remains a cornerstone of the government's activity, but I know that it is shared by all political forces, with whom confrontation and collaboration cannot be lacking. There is not, in fact, a state where crime is doomed. There is no prospect of development, there is no civil growth, there is no future for the new generations where you have to bend your head, or shut up, or run away. There is no prosperity where uncertainty, fear or violence reign. I will be in Palermo on 30 January, for the inauguration of the judicial year and will have the opportunity, on that occasion, to confirm the strong support of me and the Government to the judiciary, engaged in the work of contrast and repression of the mafia phenomena. [[Applause from the PD Group]] As Minister of Justice, I also feel it is my duty to remember the efforts made to arrive, after about a quarter of a century, at giving organic accommodation to the eco-ethics, another area in which the pressure of organised crime is strong. Someone said it was anti-business legislation. On the contrary, I believe that this is a regulation for companies that respect the rules and for a new model of sustainable development. Just as I would like to recall the bill on the caporalate, which aims to introduce effective tools to prevent the illegal accumulation of wealth on the part of those who exploit workers for the obvious purpose of profit, in violation of the fundamental rights of the person. It's a shame we have to get rid of. We owe it to all those who have fought to eliminate inhumane forms of exploitation of work: to those who did it in years away, like Giuseppe Di Vittorio, in the territory of the Capitanatata; to those who have done it in more recent years, like Jerry Masslo, in the fields of Villa Literno and to anyone who does it today, wherever they reproduce the intolerable mechanisms of exploitation, often in the money of organized crime. In criminal matters, the Government then issued the legislative decree that, in compliance with the constitutional principle of the necessary offensiveness of the fact-of-fact, allows to exclude the punishableness by particular tenuity of the fact. The Government has also decriminalised certain criminal cases and deruked others into criminal offences punishable by civil fines. These interventions, together with the introduction of the test (which is already working), will also produce a significant deflation of the criminal burden that we are sure will contribute to significantly lower the still negative data concerning the prescriptions. Polemics about threatened civil coexistence or guaranteed impunity have no reason to be. The new rules have rather destructive effects on the system and aim, if anything, to make sanctions effective and more effective, because it has more force to prevent the prospect of a certain sanction, imposed quickly, than the threat of a criminal trial that, due to its time and the nature of the wrongdoing, risks getting into thin air. We must make laws, not Manzoni screams, and we must intervene with the penalty only in the most serious cases. However, I would like to make one point: the important measures introduced in criminal matters must not lose sight of what remains the first understanding of the government, namely the protection of the rights of vulnerable people. It is an inconspicuous cure, often fruiting little in terms of consensus, but which constitutes the real map of litmusol of the juridical civilization of a country. With this in mind, Italian legislation has already implemented the European Directive on the protection of victim's procedural rights. It is paradoxical that it is always in the name of the victims that we denounce what is not going, asking increasingly loudly for exemplary penalties and repressive interventions ever harder, but, in fact, the consideration of the victim, in the public debate on justice, often ends here. The victim is instrumentalized to send high lai who rekindle resentments and fears, but remains the least protected during and after the trial. By implementing the European directive, we are trying to overcome this paradox with concrete protection for the victims of crime. In this sense, initiatives have been taken to encourage the weakest to denounce the crimes consumed in their harm, finding immediate care and assistance. With equal attention the Government follows the examination of the bill for the introduction of the torture crime, aimed at adapting the internal legal order to some international regulatory instruments. Unfortunately, reform activity is often hampered by sometimes unfounded concerns, sometimes justified but instrumentally agitated, sometimes generated by distorted perceptions of current phenomena. The crime of illegal immigration is one of these cases. The general direction pursued by the Government to give greater efficiency to the criminal procedural system, focusing on the reduction of the area of criminal importance, remains confirmed. On the crime of illegal immigration, I remain convinced (in this case supported by opinions such as those of the criminal chambers, the national prosecutor anti-mafia and anti-terrorism or the vice president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary) that should be abolished. It has, however, been decided not to take over, but to propose an overall intervention covering the fastest return on the one hand, and the timing for the recognition of refugee status on the other. The issue is becoming increasingly important in Europe. The aim, therefore, must be to establish a common system of immigration and asylum. Unfortunately, however, the European Union is also a step in this direction. However, it is unacceptable to think of calling into question the fundamental principle of free movement, which is the cornerstone of the European area, for the national states' inability to reach agreement on the migration issue. The issue of rights brings me to the heart of another sensitive problem in our country, such as that of the execution of the sentence. On 31 December 2015, the prisoners were 52,164 and the prison capacity was 49,574. The parameters of the European Court of Human Rights in the relationship between capacity and presence are respected in all criminal institutions of the national territory. No prisoner shall be placed in a space of less than 3 square metres, as provided for in the European recommendations. However, it is also true that Italy remains one of the countries with the highest rate of relapse in Europe, which means that in too many cases the reeducational goal of the sentence has not been achieved. The draft law delegates approved by the Chamber of Deputies on 23 September last aims, precisely, to reconsider the treatment system in order to return to the penalty the meaning and value that the Constitution assigns to it. I am absolutely convinced that in this case we do not suffer in particular from inadequate or insufficient regulatory forecasts, but rather from a lack of attention or a guilty general distraction. The success of each reform has its roots in the awareness and adherence of the whole system and society as a whole. For a new conception of the execution of the sentence, oriented towards respect for human dignity, informed of constitutional values and in line with international resolutions, I have started the path of the States General of criminal execution. It was attended by 200 experts, representatives of associations and operators in the sector, distributed over 18 thematic tables. All subjects of various titles interested in the prison universe were involved. The work, gradually subject to different forms of public consultation and accessible on the Ministry's website, will provide valuable indications for the implementation of the delegation in prison matters. The ultimate goal is to overcome a still prison-centric system, which too quickly identifies the criminal penalty with imprisonment in prison. After that, it is essential to remember that an equally fundamental value is the effectiveness of punishment, when it is imposed with justice and a sense of humanity. For this reason, the temporary measure adopted for two years has not been proposed in order to decongestantise prisons, which expired on 31 December. In this provision, the special early release provided for the deduction of a sentence of seventy-five days, every six months of atonement. It actually worked as an automatism and thus sacrificed the actual character of the penalty to other needs, now fortunately exceeded. However, there are still problems that society cannot solve, and which cannot be solved in prison. The inmates are the ones who pay the price. But so are the men and women of the Prison Police Corps, to whom I would therefore like to address a sincere word of thanks for the difficult work they are called to do. [[Applause from the PD Group]] A work that is evolving, and that cannot but accompany the reversal of the tendency of the common feeling in the matter of criminal execution. The Stability Act authorises expenditure on equalisation in the articulation of qualifications, career progression and the legal and economic treatment of the staff of the prison police to the corresponding leadership roles of the State Police. We think we must continue and be able to aim, while respecting budgetary constraints, for alignment for non-directive roles and tasks. But there are changes: and they are measurable. A hundred years ago, Socialist MEP Filippo Turati addressed the then President of the Council, Giovanni Giolitti, in Parliament, with a long and heartfelt speech, in order to denounce in the conditions of imprisonment the greater shame of our country. He called the prison the cemetery of the living. His words upset the feelings of the House, as Giolitti himself had to recognize. Those words are no longer, fortunately, current. But forty years after the reform of the penitentiary system, unfortunately the warning that Turati delivered to those words remains timely: "The society, which defends itself, can take over us, can lock us up; but it cannot, it has no right, to suppress dignity in us." And then he added: It is not written in any book of destiny that our prisons should be seedlings of crime. That is also why we are finally implementing the figure of the prisoner's guarantor. Finally, there are still children in our prisons. In fact, they serve the sentence together with their mothers even if without any responsibility held and does not console me the fact that we almost managed to halve the number: they were 34 at the beginning of 2015; they are, currently, 19. These are difficult situations in which the judge decides not to be able to grant the mothers the attenuated detention. But these are situations that for a sense of humanity that must never abandon us, we must continue to monitor with great attention, in view of their definitive overcoming. Mr President, Senators, I feel obliged, in conclusion, to draw an objective assessment of the progress made. I have tried to take into account the breadth and depth of the changes introduced in the world of justice. I've reported on the amount of investment started. I would also like to provide some useful comparisons to highlight the results achieved. The civil backwardness, as I said, continues to decline, reducing structurally. It amounted to 5.2 million at 31 December 2013. It went up to 4.9 million the following year. It dropped further this year and is expected to fall to up to 4 million by the end of 2016. The time of issue of the injunctive decrees decreases, in one year: in Catania by 32 percent in Naples by 41 percent; in Milan by 52 percent; in Rome by 54 percent. The acts deposited a month by the magistrates went from 1.5 million a year ago to about 2.5 million in December 2015. The computer records filed by the professionals have increased, over the same period, from approximately 1.2 million to almost 4.4 million. From 2013 to today, the telematic civil process has brought savings of 130 million euros. The prison population has fallen to 52,164 and, instead, has grown to 39,274 people in execution of external punishment. Six years ago the inmates were 67,971 and 21,494 people in external criminal execution. I would point out that the overall balance means that the people who are being executed are more today than at the highest moment of the prison crisis in our country. The prisoners awaiting trial, also thanks to the law passed by Parliament, are today 8.523, against 11.108 of 31 December 2013. The rate of overcrowding in prisons has fallen from 131 percent to 105 percent. Regulatory capacity has increased in two years by almost two thousand places, without prison plans and without extraordinary commissioners. As the European authorities and international observers have pointed out, Italian justice is therefore changing. But the Ministry of Justice also wants to be the Ministry of People's Rights, the Ministry of Offended Persons. On this front, too, we have worked decisively, carrying out reform projects that strengthen the protection system: from drawing up a genuine statute for vulnerable persons to strengthening legal aid; from the approval of a fund for the patrimonial relief of victims to the institution of the prisoner's guarantor; from the closure of psychiatric hospitals - and I stress this - to the maintenance of guarantee levels, even in the presence of security threats. I hope that in 2016 the process of recognising people's rights will be intensified and can take further steps, gathering the indications from the Court of Strasbourg and indicating gaps and delays in our legal system. Italy will thus fully regain the role of lighthouse of rights and legal civilization, which already distinguishes it when it stands at the head of the nations for the moratorium on the death penalty in the world. The work done is a lot and, of course, much remains to be done. But all this is the result of a teamwork for which I want to thank all my collaborators, Deputy Minister Costa and Undersecretary Ferri. Mr President, the communication on the state of justice in Parliament is one of the most significant moments in the work of the Guardasigilli, which develops through the practice of giving and giving reasons for its government activity. I am honored to do so, convinced as I am not only of the centrality of Parliament in the order of the Republic, but also of the centrality of justice in the life of institutions and citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group and the D'Ascola and Formigoni Senators. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the suspension of work due to a lack of quorum will result in a further harmonisation of time with respect to the quota already planned. I therefore call on all senators to comply strictly with the time allocated.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u22	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his timely report on the state of justice. Having regard to the very few minutes I have available, I will avoid going into detail and I will confine myself to a few points, particularly on issues that I am dear to and which I would like to draw to the attention of the Minister and to those of my colleagues all. I am referring in particular to the issue of the civil process. A short while ago the Minister pointed out in his Report that the reforming heart of the action of this Government was the civil process, the intervention on one of the spines of this country, and he mentioned the important numbers in which it was measured the improvement of its efficiency: the reduction of litigation and the improvement of the entire judicial machine, with extremely important numbers and evident both in terms of men and financial endowments. The House of Deputies is currently studying the overall reform of the civil process, which I stress because of the importance and attention it needs to be given to it. I merely express my personal concern, but also of many colleagues, who have been mentioned by the Minister in his report and which concerns the family court. I remember only two figures: in 2011 the marriages were 240,830 and the cohabitations doubled, from 500,000 to 972,000. This means that a court that deals with relations within the family and relations between people is extremely important, that it covers all Italian citizenship as a whole and that it needs adequate structures, adequate staff and all the best specializations in the sector, because it affects the living flesh of people. I cannot deny that I see with some concern the draft law which has been presented to the House of Deputies in this regard and which is for the attention of that branch of Parliament. It identifies a solution - the sections - which raises some doubts in me precisely as regards the response to citizens' problems. I hope that in the course of the examination we can deepen this area by giving it, which is one of the fundamental areas of civil justice in our country, adequate structures and resources. Secondly, as a simple pin sting which I address to the Minister and to the whole House as a whole. A short while ago, the Minister spoke of the need to ensure maximum attention and protection for vulnerable people. Well, among them we begin to pay particular attention to children, who are the delicate point of our system. At this moment, the whole system of minors is being redesigned. It is necessary that this system, in all future legislation, starting with civil unions and continuing with the whole issue of cybersecurity (I remember the bill on cyberbullying that lies at this time in the House of Deputies), receives the same attention as we do to other issues. Children are our future; Let's remember that when we make the laws. One last pin sting, Minister. You said you're taking a tour of all the courts. I dare you to come to the courts in the North, Minister, I dare you to come to the courts in Vicenza and Treviso. Important reforms have been made; you have just mentioned them and you have also mentioned the numbers that those reforms have produced. But there are still very important pockets of inefficiency and non-response, in particular in courts that should be at the service of an economic and social fabric that is very relevant to our system. We need those structures to be put in a position to operate as efficiently as possible. Minister, you know what I'm referring to. I beg you and invite you, as of now, to come and measure with your own eyes what justice, in particular civil justice, in my region means at this time. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u25	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. In the usual little attention the House pays to what is being done here, you have first rightly reminded us that, due to the lack of the quorum, we are forced to make a further contingency. However, the fundamental fact is that, if this is the case, Mr President, I would point out to you that the majority, which should guarantee the quorum in this House, can, at any time, cause the quorum to be absent and reduce the areas of debate for the minority. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u27	Mr President, the Minister's report has lights and shadows, like all reports. A series of data are certainly appreciable: refuting objective data would be an intellectually dishonest operation. I also believe that, with regard to the issue at the beginning, in the part where we talk about a different climate, in embryo and in cloud, this different climate can be seen, but, in my opinion, there is still much to be done from this point of view. This is because there was a long time when the climate was very bad and the relations between the various stakeholders in the justice system were marked by significantly different relationships compared to what could be seen in recent months. From here comes the invitation and the incentive to do much more. Another part that I have appreciated concerns the elements, data and passages relating to the fight against international terrorism. It must be said that positive efforts and actions have been made from this point of view. The data reveal something appreciable in this respect. Clearly, one cannot be satisfied with what has not happened to which one must respond by always keeping the guard very high and, therefore, with regard to the justice system, trying to further widen the collaborations and international relations that can lead to results, as well as those to which Minister Orlando referred. Another step in the Report was the relocation of staff from other administrations. I say to you, as an operator of justice that can be found concretely in the judicial offices every day, that this operation to date is unsatisfactory because there is not that level of professionalism that can resolve a number of issues, as the Minister wished in his Report. In fact, this staff is not yet fully integrated and has not solved the problems that were hoped could be solved. It is true: there is a reduction in the number of new cases concerning civil justice, but it can also be said that this is not only the effect of so-called - using a complicated word - dejudicialization. In fact, it was not a free society of operators or users of the justice system; this happened precisely because it has been more complicated in recent months to have access to the system. Let us think about how difficult it is every day in all courts to implement the telematic civil process. There are continuous interruptions, lack of services, lack of IT equipment: the lack of a toner blocks the possibility of writing a cause to the role. This is very serious because the toner can cost about 40 euros. But this is the reality of every day. Minister, your report referred to the fight against corruption. I note that there is a perverse relationship between what the justice system should do in itself with the courts and judges and the role of the National Anti-Corruption Authority (NAAC) which, in some respects, in the eyes of the citizen is taking on a role totally as a substitute for what the justice system should do. There are many things that could still be said, but time is very short. I want to make a nod about overcrowding. There may be a reduction as a result of the new rules and novelties introduced in recent months, but at the moment the operators of the penitentiary administration find themselves working in considerable difficulty. There is a lack of means and there are a number of unresolved issues. I would point out one, which I have also tried to bring to the attention of your collaborators, Minister; the operators of the external criminal execution office have long claimed that they can be equated with the typical roles of the prison police. I think this is a battle to be accomplished, because we must respect their role and their professionalism. [[Applause from the CoR Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u28	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u29	Mr President, first of all, the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group would also like to protest at this pressure of time, as Senator Di Maggio has also pointed out, due to the lack of the legal number attributable only and exclusively to the majority. Already the minutes we had been given were quite derisory when it came to dealing with a complex matter such as the area of justice. The Minister himself, at the time of his presentation of his report, even if only for summary leaders - I think he could better explore the issues - has taken more than thirty minutes. We do not understand, therefore, how we can be able in five minutes to talk about such an important matter, with a semi-empty Chamber, considering, moreover - and I say this for us that we had to submit resolutions - that we were not even given the opportunity to know the Minister's Report upstream. We shall, however, try to make our concerns known, as well as ourselves. It is true, Minister, as you say, that all the necessary measures are being taken to overcome this impasse in which Italy has fallen with its rather ineffective justice system. I would remind you, as one of my colleagues has already said, by a majority, that the administration of justice is still regarded as inadequate and incapable of protecting people. To be an attractive country also for the company, Italy must provide an absolutely efficient judicial system. In this respect, I agree with your approach that we must also organise the justice system. In fact, in some ways, the very management of a court should also be left to an executive, almost a manager, rather than a jurist because it is a very complex system. On this we agree; we believe, however, that the arrears are still too heavy and the length of the process still excessive. In Italy, according to some data easily found, a judgment of first instance arrives after five hundred and eighty days (and perhaps in Vicenza not so soon, but much later). The law of stability has even modified the conditions for making a claim for compensation in case of excessive duration of the process, as provided for by the Pinto law; well, this prediction in such a Bourbon and articulated system risks depriving citizens also of the possibility to make use of this remedy. As a Group, we want to emphasise once again - and we have continued to insist since the beginning of this parliamentary term - the importance of the issue of security in Italy. The problem of safety in Italy cannot but be linked to the problem of the regulatory approach, which unfortunately has taken place as a result of a whole series of measures. Whether there is an increase in predatory crimes is a fact: you don't even have to watch television; just wander around your neighborhood to see how many people are victims of crimes every day and constantly. This is not only because crime is perhaps better organised than civil society, but also because it is known that the justice system in Italy is also a form of attraction for foreign criminals, who come to us because they know that they will have a different treatment. We remember only as a list, from 2013 to today: protective custody brought to a maximum of five years; premium permits; works of public utility increased; early release; penalty for the sale of a small amount brought to five years; putting to the test, penalty of house imprisonment and almost exclusive house arrests compared to the imprisonment (considering everything); non punishableness for particular tenuity of the fact; a system of depenalizations. If you wanted to find a way to make Italy attractive to crime, maybe we found the best remedy. However, I would remind you - and I ask you to pass this on - that you, Minister, spoke about the problem of terrorism in Italy, but in some respects this emergency is also well addressed, perhaps also because we had the misfortune of having had terrorism in the 1970s and of having had the mafia and, as a result, a very strict criminal and regulatory system was adopted. This, however, creates barriers. We therefore need to rethink the system of criminal law so that it is particularly strict, eliminating the benefits. It is useless, in fact, a bill, such as the one we are now debating, which provides for an increase in punishment for house theft; if benefits are provided, it is useless to raise a penalty that is not finally applied. We have tabled a motion for a resolution which refers to a series of draft laws of the North League, such as the one on self-defense or the one on the exclusion of the abbreviated rite for serious crimes. What we want, however, is a reform of the whole system; a reform that is organic, structural and that comes out of the emerging logics and opportunity. We also want the magistrates to be truly responsible and we want legislation that is absolutely serious and rigorous. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Albertini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u30	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u31	Mr President, unfortunately, I too will have to examine only a very small part of the long and interesting report made by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, of course sharing some parts of it and also the work that has been done, but disagreeing with what, after two years of observation in the Justice Commission, seems to me to be the (criminal once said) criminal policy of this Government, in which I find three very obvious problems. The first is the criminalization of the citizen. I am thinking in particular of public administration policy, with the raising of minimum penalties. We begin with the arrest, that is, first we arrest a person (I refer, for example, to the case of the city council member of the Lombardy Region Mantovani and also to the colleagues for whom the arrest was requested), it is held in prison for a few months, then we try to bring the prescription up to thirty-three years in cases of concussion and corruption. Of course, the assumption is that the citizen is guilty in the Commission, so the State must punish him and must take as long as it takes to bring him to justice, of course without thinking, as is statistically demonstrated, that in reality that citizen can also be innocent and that the trial to ascertain his responsibilities should not end after thirty-three years, but within a reasonable time. This has been done, so this was the policy chosen. In some cases, like the road murder, it was something shameful. The government has imposed on us with confidence (that I have not voted) a sentence of eighteen years in prison also to those who, not out of imprudence or imprudence, find themselves to make a mistake (grandma or mother who brings the children to school, a boy) because perhaps because of the fog goes in a forbidden way and maybe they die that people who were in the car with those who have the accident. At this point, the question I ask myself is why that person has to serve 18 years in prison, after having already had the trauma of an accident that ruins his life. Unfortunately, however, the Senate has given confidence in such a subject and when people see it, they will rightly be outraged. Then there is the problem of crimes of opinion, from homophobia to negationism. A text has even been presented, signed by 64 colleagues (including Mr Fiano), in which a sentence is expected from six months to two years in prison for those who trade, sell or buy gadgets of the past regime, including stamps. Have there been dozens of celebratory issues of fascism, even with the image of the author, do we do criminal matters? That's exactly how it is, because if you go to see the bill, you find this. The homophobia then hope to have blocked it as a crime of opinion, even if sponsored by the government. As far as negationism is concerned, I have seen the text that came back from the House, and even then I have to say that the Senate has tried, in recent years, to find balances that the House has then continuously upset. Then there is the problem of the vagueness of the crimes that have been introduced. For example, the law already in force on the environment harms businesses. I would like to know, in fact, not when an environmental crime is committed but when it is not committed. In fact, it is written that the crime, even manslaughter, is the significant and measurable compromise or deterioration of water, air, soil, subsoil, ecosystem, biodiversity (also agricultural), flora and fauna. Then it is said that jurisprudence will establish and measure but you understand that a direct farmer, a farmer, an entrepreneur who compares with the environment, with animals or with flora, risks being incriminated, even if only manslaughter. The bill on the crime of torture, which went back and forth from the House to the Senate, in the last work carried out by the Chamber even reports that in the case of a policeman or a policeman who resists violence, if the person who is opposed denounced acute psychic suffering, the policeman in question risks being charged for torture and the penalty even provides for life imprisonment in the event of death of the person whose resistance the policeman or policeman had to overcome. I'm saying this because you just have to see the case of Grapes and others like that. We read that photographs of policemen and carabinieri are published and the latter are lynched, they and their families, I must say without any institutional authority opening their mouths to the said lynching and then we see in Varese that four prosecutors, last the one in the case, have asked four times for the dismissal of these agents and these carabinieri. I wonder, then, whether rules of this kind are being laid down to genuinely protect and strike cases of torture or whether they are being used, instead, to spread and amplify a general suspicion of the Forces of Order, which can, however, also be indicted for absolutely legitimate behaviors such as those combating violence. Therefore, the problem of the worsening even sensitive of the penalties in recent years, the proposals to introduce crimes of opinion and the same vagueness of the crimes introduced seems to me to denounce an orientation (certainly balanced of the decriminalization of some Bagatellar crimes, I agree) that makes me look with concern at the measures that are still in progress and that, in our opinion, must be absolutely correct. [[Applause from Senator Albertini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am of course aware that the problems and difficulties of justice in Italy are, to a certain extent, historical, indeed, as you said, chronic, and that it would be unfair to ask only this Government or to demand from you, by magic, the immediate solution. However, believe me, in a spirit of sincerely constructive criticism, I feel the duty to add to the portrait that she has given us, some other brushstroke of grey. The greys, Minister, you know, in real life exist and give life to the nuances, which are fundamental to building realistic and unflattened portraits. First of all, let me outline it on the subject of resources. It is a broader theme, in fact, which goes beyond its Dicastery and its competences. As a result of a blockage of the turnover that has lasted for years, now reached the unbearable, and that the law of stability has extended until 2018, the administrative staff of the chancellories, which all in words recognize as the necessary fuel of the infamous engine of justice, is largely close to retirement and, however, often demotivated also for the economic treatments certainly inadequate, also for specific problems that the Minister certainly knows well (I refer to the theme of the requalifications) and for the difficulties in facing continuous technological innovations dropped from above. I am well aware that it is proposed to come to the aid of the Ministry and its pressing needs with the personnel of the Provinces in perennial dissolution, but the expectation of this staff risks becoming like that of the Tartars of the famous novel of Buzzati who, as we know, never arrived. The procedures are, in fact, complex, the functions of the Provinces are being redistributed, and the new metropolitan areas, like all bureaucratic apparatuses that perpetuate themselves, tend to absorb increasing quotas of personnel already of the Provinces. In short, it is no coincidence that the tragicomic events of a more or less lame employee of a Province have become the comic theme of the last great film of success by Checco Zalone. Minister, I can assure you, out of direct knowledge, that there are judicial offices where, in five years' time, there will be virtually no chancellor or secretary. You have undoubtedly anticipated that 500 employees and the introduction of trainees are planned, but do you think that this number is sufficient to ensure the normal functioning of the judicial offices? Another issue on which I must point out delays and criticalities is that of the revision of judicial districts. Of course, the initiative to carry out a comprehensive review of judicial divisions was the final crash of an ultra-decent debate and was, of course, useful and necessary even if, to be honest, it was implemented by the Government prior to the one in office today. However, given the national dimension of the modification and amalgamation measures, the possibility of adjustment and correction measures had been appropriately envisaged, but they were not adopted or were not adopted to a sufficient extent. There are realities, in fact, such as that of the court of Naples North, of new institution, or that of Nocera Inferiore, where the relationship between users, both in terms of civil affairs and criminal affairs, and staff of judiciary and administrative is such as to bring about the denial of justice. I urge you, therefore, to pay more attention to this request for correction when it is adequately supported by objective elements and data. Let's get to the prison chapter, Minister. There is no doubt that (and it must be objectively recognized) thanks to the interventions, above all, normative ones implemented on the initiative of the Government, the situation of overcrowding that had exposed us to the strangles of the European Court of Strasbourg has been, at least in its most critical, overcome. However, this road was traveled mainly through the reduction of the penitentiary year to seven months, expanding the days of early liberation from forty-five to seventy-five per semester. In this regard, I merely recall that many, among the most experienced commentators, have spoken of a masked indult. While the indult and the amnesty, the true ones, and which also have the advantage of lightening even the judicial burden, have not approved themselves, despite the authoritative exhortation of the Holy Father and the proclamation of the Jubilee of Mercy, for petty electoral calculations. On the other hand, quite another structural nature would have had interventions that had widened and differentiated the range of penalties since the moment of cognition, allowing the judge to impose, for almost all crimes, differentiated penalties and alternatives to detention. Similarly, I consider a basically failed plan for the reform of protective custody. I have already had the opportunity to say, in this House, that from the point of view of legislative technique, the new law on protective custody continues to focus on that florilegio of adjectives and abstract formulas that, over the years, have always given bad proof, destined to discolorize and lose meaning in the practices of the judicial offices that have them, with the undoubted dialectical ability of our lawyers, chewed, digested and expelled, reduced to empty simulations lacking in life and practical meaning. This was the case, in fact, with the passage from the sufficient to the serious evidence of guilt, required for the adoption of the precautionary measures. It happened, as you will recall, in 1988 and was greeted at the time as a revolution, yet it did not prevent the so-called Tangentopoli, the abuse of protective custody in function of coercion to confession, suicides in prison and outside prisons. Today it has been expressly stated that the precautionary requirements must be current, but this has not prevented a judge for the preliminary investigations of Naples from taking, a few days ago, a personal precautionary measure against a senator of the Republic for facts that would have happened - I do not say committed, of course, in compliance with the presumption of not guilty - more than five years ago. Finally, there was the implementation of the delegation on decriminalisation. In the adoption of the legislative decrees it was necessary to assist, for a verse, to the anachronistic maintenance, indeed harmful, according to the same national prosecutor anti-mafia, of the crime of illegal immigration, punished with the sole financial penalty, with everything that is easy to imagine, in the matter of processes destined to produce inapplicable sanctions - and indeed unenforced - and, for another verse, to an episode of legislative schizophrenia that, although not isolated, reaches, in this case, summits really difficult to equal. I am referring to the second decriminalization, in a few years, of the driving offence without a driving licence, today decreed by the Government, while Parliament starts to dismiss a questionable text on road murder, with which the so-called life sentence of the driving licence is expected. However, if driving without a driving licence is no longer a crime, as provided for in the recent act of the Council of Ministers, it will agree with me, Minister, that this life sentence of the driving licence leaves the time it finds and, in any case, sends to the country a signal at least contradictory. Minister, our Group has tabled two motions for resolutions: one concerning the organisation of the judicial offices and another recalling the history of our culture, in the matter of reform of the Supreme Council of the judiciary (to avoid the odious system of currents) and civil liability of the criminal court, as a law that is truly binding and not just a replacement of the previous ones. However, Minister, in the certainty that you will be able to consider the constructive value of these brief considerations - although I am speaking on the telephone at the moment - I wish you every success. [[Applause from Senator Companione]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u34	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u35	Mr President, allow me a very short time on the question of the quorum. The task of ensuring the functioning of this House and therefore its legal number belongs to everyone, since, as you know, except for the Presidency, which is a monocratic and guaranteeing figure, the rest of the bodies have a plural and non-discriminatory composition of minorities and positions. [[Senator Candiani's comments.]] It goes without saying that, if the numbers of minorities are counted for the purpose of assessing the presence of the quorum, they also have their responsibilities in ensuring their functionality. [[Comments of Senators Candiani and Comaroli.]] Having said that, Mr President, allow me to address the issue of justice in our country, considering it as one of the fundamental elements in the action of any institution. This could be the last or the penultimate time in this House to discuss the general state of justice: yesterday we concluded the path of constitutional reform, which will exclude the Senate from the competence to discuss justice. I therefore take this remaining opportunity to acknowledge, in addition to the great work of reform of the sector led by Minister Orlando, supported and expanded by the majority of the Government to which we have tried to make our contribution, also the positive contribution of the oppositions, who have often dedicated themselves with commitment to the reform of this sector. I would therefore like to make a contribution in the area of justice, to the future memory of the legislature, which is in its final phase. I would like to establish a small pro memoria for Minister Orlando and for future colleagues Ministers of Justice and Members of the House who would like to try to bring about an effective modernisation of justice in our country. We have an open question, that of the reform of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, a reform which I do not believe can take place from within. The legislator needs to develop its competence and courage to deal with what is one of the perversions of our system, namely the close link between the currents of representation of the magistrates and the composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, moving from this fictitiously democratic phase to a much more objective draw system. I would also like to remind you that the question of the mandatory prosecution remains open, a simple fiction in our country which must be assumed as the main problem, in order to avoid the discretion, at this moment established not by the legislator but by the objective conditions in which our criminal system is located. The reform of the disciplinary system, which is certainly on the agenda, remains unfinished. The reform of judicial geography has also remained unfinished - you know, Minister, that this is a subject that I follow with particular attention - which cannot allow the continuation of wrong combinations that have worsened, in general improvement, some specific realities. We must remedy it quickly and courageously, admitting that in a major reform action some situation may have been incorrectly assessed. We must also address, Minister, the question of the unity of jurisdiction: too many magistrates and too many procedural rites, with the consequent difficulty of distancing oneself from the citizens. Then there is the question of the honorary judiciary, Minister: we must get this reality out of limbo and recognize the dignity to the very end of these magistrates, who are called to carry out a service of great importance but in great difficulty, recognizing them the dignity they deserve or exempting us from their use. Of course, it is a good thing that technical and administrative staff are provided, but we must cover the gaps present in the magistrates' staff, with courage, overcoming also the conveniences of choices that are often manifested. More attention is needed to the world of prisons and professional figures involved in the treatment of penalties and greater investment in prison police, training and technology. One last consideration concerns the protection of the innocent defendant: there are too many judicial errors and few judicial errors recognized; a different justice between those who can and those who cannot. These are the issues I leave as a political will of an outgoing senator. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u36	Mr President, even for the sake of time, I will make a brief premise and then a few quick comments on the subject. The premise is as follows: I think the Minister is right, but I think we still have to take the road to a situation that can be a counter-trend compared to these years. I also think, like the Minister, that there is certainly a better climate than the past, but it seems quite clear to me that we would need a budget on what has happened in Italy over the last 20 years. They are among those who increasingly think that it has weighed heavily, in the matter of justice, the polarization with which we have faced, the one that goes under the name of Berlusconism and antiberlusconism, which has really helped little. I am referring, precisely, to the dynamic for which, on the one hand, we proceeded with what I call the "alternate license plate guarantee" and the continuous laws ad personam and, on the other hand, we responded with simplification, so a guarantee notice becomes essentially a sentence of condemnation. I believe that this has done very badly to the political and also legal climate of this country and that we must encourage the attempt to put an end, once and for all, to that dynamic and bring the political debate back to a more significant and important ridge. Minister, however - and I say this because I have often spoken about it in this House - within this changed climate there remains an element of difficulty and problematicity, especially when it is the common citizen who is concerned with justice, whose perception has not changed and who believes that there are two speeds and two channels: the A-series justice, which concerns only one part of the population, and the B-series justice, which concerns the vast majority of the citizens and which, although there is a changed climate in some respects, still presents very, very significant problems, some of these have been mentioned, while others are historically the subject of discussion also in this House; I refer to the length of the processes and everything that follows: the inevitable increase in the workload for the appeal courts, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the very sad number - for another reason - of appeals to the European Court of Strasbourg, which we have repeatedly called for in this debate. I think the attempt to make should be to push very much along this direction and work very hard on the problem of perception, which remains in our country. Much more needs to be done on it than has been done to date. Having said that, I would like to focus on four very brief points relating to a number of elements contained in Mr Orlando's report. The first consideration concerns prisons. There is no doubt that some of the speeches made in recent years have seen the vote in favour of some oppositions, such as ours. The figures - that of the prison population, of course - have certainly improved compared to a few years ago. However, it remains a great problem which, in some way, faces a cultural point, as well as a political one. I am referring to the idea that, despite the buffer interventions adopted in recent months, the concept remains that the sentence must, in any case, revolve around the idea of prison. I think that much more should be done on this issue, even culturally, because it is not enough simply to tackle the issue of overcrowding if, however, it remains a major human rights problem. I repeat, much more should be done in this area. Minister Orlando, I hope you have sent an inspection to the surrounding house in Sollicciano, Florence (in case you have not, I invite you to provide as soon as possible). In fact, in the newspapers this morning we read that in these days, when the temperature reaches -5 degrees, the heats haven't worked for a week. Inside the cells of an Italian prison it is freezing and I think that this is not compatible with the level of civilization and human rights that this country must guarantee. Moreover, I even read bites of mice to the detriment of some prisoners in this prison. As is well understood, something has certainly been done, but a long way has yet to be travelled in view of the types of problems that still exist. I believe that the same approach and sensitivity should also be taken with regard to judicial psychiatric hospitals (PDGs). The reform we have adopted must have been a major achievement of civilizations, but it remains, also due to the inadequacy of many regional authorities, an element of difficulty on which I think it is necessary to intervene. With regard to the crime of illegality, I hope that, once and for all, Article 10 bis of the single text on immigration can be repealed, as requested by all the most authoritative figures in the sector. I shall conclude on one point that you mentioned in your report, which concerns the crime of torture. Let me make this point, because this issue is becoming grotesque as well. The bill on the crime of torture is buried, perhaps in the Justice Commission. It is not even clear what the text on which the legislative measure should have been done should be. I already consider it a very backward text, because I would have liked it to be understood as a crime of its own, as in the civil countries of the rest of Europe. I understand that in Italy we are in this particular condition, because little is discussed about these issues, but really this is an element that marks a resounding inadequacy. Our country cannot afford not to foresee a criminal offence as far as torture is concerned. Mr. Minister, you can't even fix yourself behind the individual behavior of the individual congressman or the individual senator. Yesterday, this government, having adopted the constitutional reform with very large numbers, as we have seen, clearly demonstrated (from my point of view, of course, with a serious deficit) that, when it wants to impose with political will a choice around which there are elements of perplexity, it succeeds, given the outcome of the vote on the constitutional reform. I think I can say that while there was probably a very significant political will in that case, the political will on the crime of torture instead disappears. It is not simply a question of the sensitivity of some senator or of some Member. It is a political problem against which our country is making a bad figure and for which we must completely reverse the trend compared to what has happened in recent years. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Albertini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u37	Mr President, the Minister presented a positive, even brilliant, picture in relation to the scenario he inherited from the previous circumstances in which the judicial administration operated. This picture is related to that of the crime index that the Minister of the Interior has recently illustrated and on which we can make a reflection. If the crimes have fallen by 10 percent (the murders of 11 percent and the thefts of 9.7%) and if the previous year had fallen by a total of 7 percent there is a question as to why such stubborn figures, these huge numbers (we will then go into the merits of those of justice) are not perceived in the same way by the public. I briefly follow the Minister's Report with appreciation for the way he has dealt with the new threat of jihadist terrorism, amplifying the intervention in international cooperation, providing for the realization of a neostructure of particular offences that concern the prospect of terrorist events, the preparation of attacks, the recruitment and training of these dangerous subjectivity. I am still very briefly going through some scenarios concerning three fundamental points of the judicial administration on which the Government intervened. The prison emergency, which has been largely reduced, is a good thing. Numbers are stubborn arguments. Today, no prisoner is forced into less than three square metres of detention provided for by the European Court of Justice. If we have gone from 67,971 prisoners to 52,164 this year, this has happened because we have made it happen. The same can be said for the fact that the intervention of the telematic process, on which the Government and the administration of the State has invested widely, has led our country to recover as many as 13 positions in the index of the "Doing Business" reduced by international organizations regarding the commercial litigation of civil justice. It is also interesting to note that the reduction of residual civil litigation is approaching the threshold of 4 million and tends to reduce it, with a close correlation on what is disposed of during the year of civil litigation management, to 3.8 million. These are not comforting figures in themselves, but compared to the 6 million slopes of 2009, they lead us to believe that we are doing much better. I might add a few more positive elements, but I would like to leave the last two minutes and eighteen seconds at my disposal to a critique. Our country is unfortunately considered - and in this case it is the numbers to say - among the first, of the 47 of the countries that make up the Council of Europe, as regards the aspect of the non-application of the decisions of the European Court of Justice. As you well know, Minister, in Italy, out of 47 countries, there are 2,622 out of 11,000 total cases in which we are not fulfilling. And, among them, there is the endemic picture of the slowness of the trials that involves the denied justice that can be compensated according to our laws. You are well aware, Minister, that 70% of the requirements - the relationship between prescription and duration of trials is not so bizarre - are carried out in the course of the investigation. I would like to make a very personal criticism of this. I made a statement to the Minister of Justice at the time, who then passed on to his examination. You told me that you were making your own speeches and comments from inspectors and competent ministerial bodies on three cases involving the conduct of a prosecutor. One case, in particular, concerned an investigation that lasted six years without a request for the storage or indictment of the suspect. Well, your ministry and your collaborators considered the case irrelevant. Minister, if we want to tackle the problems of justice, when we refer to disciplinary offences and are ignored even in the presence of evidence, we could do better if we also supported a joint effort on this issue to improve it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u38	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u39	Mr President, Minister, my fellow senators, I believe that the administration of justice is quite different from the picture which, in some respects, was presented by the Minister this morning. In fact, the chronic shortcomings of magistrates and administrative staff continue in our country. The times of justice - as my previous colleague has just reminded me - despite some timid signals, are and remain of an unacceptable length for a civilized country. The costs of reducing litigation are restricting access to justice only to citizens who can afford it economically. And that, Minister, is the opposite of the principle of justice. Meanwhile, mafias, corruption and economic crime continue to thrive, thanks to a widespread context of substantial impunity guaranteed by the triggering of prescription deadlines. The perverse interweaving between organised crime and politics seems to have even worsened in the last period. The most emblematic example is the Mafia Capital investigation, to which Minister, perhaps for the involvement of his party, does not mention in any way in his Report. Corruption has taken on an intolerable dimension for many years now. To deal with it, they needed and needed much more effective tools than those put in place so far. Failure to resort to them cannot but give rise to distrust in the political will to combat corruption effectively. The reform of judicial geography, which abolished 946 offices of first instance, 30 courts, 30 prosecutors, 220 branches and 660 offices of peace judges, also gave a very serious blow to the jurisdiction in the territories. You, Minister, say in your report, perhaps even a little controversially, that Italy would be divided on the use and direction of justice, but above all on the control of justice. Then, however, we see the appointment of a member of its own government as vice president of the MSC. This is an unacceptable interference between the powers of the state, an interference that has no precedent. You stated in your report that the main threat to our country is today that of jihadist terrorism. I believe that the main threat today is corruption, and particularly corruption within your own party. You say, Minister, that one of the main sources of funding for international terrorism is the illicit trafficking of cultural goods. It'll be true. I believe - and I apologise if I may correct it - that the financing of oil trade is much more significant. You say that the problem of prison overcrowding has been solved thanks to the many measures emptied prisons. Unfortunately, the problem has been largely transferred to civil society, which today pays the bill of empty prisons with the increase of insecurity, both effective and perceived. You, Minister, boast of the new model of spending management transferred to the Ministry. Too bad it doesn't work. While sharing their goals, it is an example of how things should not be done. The competences are, in fact, often returned to those same municipalities that held them previously, not having the personal judicial offices dedicated to this purpose. I would like to make three or four further comments on your report. We need a reform of the honorary judiciary, which is currently being discussed in the Senate. It's true, it's true. But why proceed to the treatment of such an important and delicate reform by resorting to a delegated law made by the Government? The Government delegates itself to issue a legislative decree. I believe it will be embarrassing to go then to see if the legislative decree will have respected all the stakes provided by the government in the law delegation of government origin. I believe, Mr President, that this is a humiliation of Parliament, also because many other draft delegated legislation of parliamentary origin could and can still be discussed. And I make another reference to the Minister's Report. The government accompanied the parliamentary work of the reform of the political-mafia exchange vote. And we have noticed this, because the original reform of Article 416-b of the penal code, which was voted by the Senate Justice Commission, the Chamber Justice Commission and then was modified following a government intervention before the final vote in the Chamber of Deputies, was completely different from its final version. [[Applause from Senator Airola]] , which is not only ineffective, but even reduces by more than 40% the criminal sanctions provided for a very serious crime, as is the vote of political-mafia exchange. Minister, you said you would go to Palermo on 30 January for the inauguration of the judicial year. I am pleased to acknowledge this and ask you to bring the Government's solidarity - I think it is implicit in your statement, but it is explicit - and, I think I can say, of the Senate and of Parliament all to the public prosecutor Di Matteo for the very serious and serious threats he has received and continues to receive for the work he is doing. I shall make one final point and begin with the conclusion. Minister, you say that Italy remains one of the countries with the highest rate of relapse in Europe. This means that the reeducational purpose of punishment is not achieved, and this is a very important point. I believe that it is essential to bring a reflection of Parliament and the Government, for its role of impulse, on the lack of organization and prediction of work within the prison, which should be there today but is not there. And this would serve precisely to give greater effectiveness to the reeducational purpose of the sentence. From this point of view, the 5 Star Movement has been working on some draft laws for a long time. Of course, if there are initiatives that the government will take, I think we will go in the right direction. So far, however, from this point of view, there has been no such thing, but I stress the importance of intervening. And it seems to me, however, that the Minister's sensitivity is there. You, Minister, are very concerned about the data relating to the prescriptions, which you said was the subject of the bill approved by the House and which you hope will also be approved by the Senate. Minister, since you are not informed, I tell you: that bill has been blocked for almost a year (eleven months) in the Senate by your own party, the Democratic Party, like many other important reforms, starting with that of the class action, perhaps blocked because it could help and be an effective tool in the hands of the hundreds of thousands of Italian savers cheated by banks in recent months. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In order to regain confidence in politics, we should start from here, that is, from avoiding so much hypocrisy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u40	We greet the students and teachers of the Professional Institute Maffeo Pantaleoni in Frascati, in the province of Rome, who attend our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u42	Mr President, the administration of justice and the defence of citizens from crime is one of the foundations that justify the existence of a state. In our conception, the state is not first of all the citizens: first the citizens come and then the state. And, among the first essential things that the State must guarantee to the citizens, to justify the power it exercises over them, there are justice and defence from the injustices of others and, possibly, even from its own. For this reason, Minister, he has done well to use philosophical quotations of the great principles of law. I have, however, had the feeling that your report is somewhat detached from reality and very much based on the views of the offices and the Ministry of Justice and little on that of the citizens. Justice in general is a very important aspect not only for judges, lawyers, defendants or victims or potential victims of crime, which already constitute a large number of the Italian population, but also for businesses and the economy. When we talk to Italian and international entrepreneurs-investors, in the first place of the reasons that keep them from investing and business in Italy put not taxes, which are too high, nor the cost of labour, which is higher than in other countries, but two things: justice and bureaucracy, closely connected with each other; a bureaucracy that imposes endless obligations and a merciless justice with those who may have omitted one of those obligations, or worse, seems to have omitted it. Justice is too slow, and that is often said. The civil process in Italy still lasts twice as long as the OECD average. The problem mentioned little is that, unfortunately, it is very unreliable. The sentence arrives late and sometimes is incredible; or, the sentence arrives late and in the meantime the innocent has been held in prison. And I might mention the case of a well-known television entrepreneur, then turned to political activity, but I'm talking about something else. I'm talking about that Fastweb executive who's been in prison for months, even though he's come from abroad specifically to account for the charges he's been charged with. And the months in prison, during which he was accused of having basically based his company on the scam, not only have severely limited personal freedom and undermined the credibility of that person perhaps forever, but at the same time have also put in serious difficulty a large company. There is no doubt that a company based on false invoices - this was the accusation - is totally unreliable, and companies, Minister, cannot wait for the five hundred and eighty days or four, five years, because they live day by day. Just see what happens every day in the bags. Well, in the face of episodes such as the one mentioned, concluded with the finding that none of the accusations made to that manager was true, we understand why so many investors, between investing in Italy and elsewhere, choose other countries: justice from us - I repeat - not only is slow, but is also unreliable. Lately, you have rightly mentioned the environmental crime law, which you say is not against businesses, but in favour of those that respect the law. Of course, if the law had been written more clearly, in fact clearly and not vaguely, so as to distinguish the criminal who poisons entire hectares of territory, endangering the health of those who live there, from the poor man who is wrong, perhaps, to dispose of waste in a piece of land, in a meadow or near a pond, then that would be as you say, Minister. When you risk years and years in prison with end prescription never, as you want to do, then it is clear that between Italy and the hundreds of countries in the world, which have a lower labour cost, lower taxes and so on, you choose other countries. Then there is little to be surprised if, despite all the tricks and subsidies, unemployment continues to be at the thousand-year records of our country's history (it is said of the last thirty years, but the record is always). I have not heard a single word from you, Minister, about an extremely important aspect: the reform of judicial geography. I remind you that your party presented it in the 2013 election program with which you yourself were elected. The President-in-Office of the Council has not taken the trouble of being elected, because he is a little allergic to the elections, which he wants to abolish for the future too. But you were elected with that program in which you proposed a revision of the reform of judicial geography and specifically cited the list of some courts anyway to be restored, or to be removed from the list of those deleted: Pinerolo, Bassano Del Grappa, Chiavari, Lucera, Rossano Calabro and Urbino. Then on the latter has intervened a sentence - the merit is not, therefore, of the Government - according to which, being Urbino chief town of Province, it had to be guaranteed under the delegation. Everything else has not been done. You were elected, Minister. She's been there almost two years. I wonder, then, how this justifies before the voters. It is true that the 2013 election program was strangely cancelled from the Democratic Party website, but it is still on the Internet and the people of those countries still exist. The famous savings, however, even in the announced entities, amount to what? You rightly did not mention this point. He spoke of savings on the leadership of the central administration of the Ministry, but not those brought by the reform of judicial geography because they are equal to zero and, to save zero, the citizens and even the public administrations living in those territories are subject to great expense. When it comes to losing days of work rather than hours, hours rather than minutes to go to court, it is all a burden on the shoulders of citizens who pay taxes, which should also serve to administer justice. But the saving was equal to zero; it was a gift made to some powerful organization that wanted us to keep justice under control. He did not mention the issue of the courts for minors, which is relevant. We deal with a lot of things, but thousands of minors are run by the courts for minors. There are hundreds of reports of cases involving minors who could safely stay in their families or in other situations and, instead, are managed between social services, court for minors, various cooperatives, of course very well remunerated. This, however, is not mentioned. This reform had to be carried out for years. We tried, too, but unfortunately they couldn't. The problem, however, remains, indeed has been aggravated. You mentioned the bill on the torture crime. We're good. I wonder if this is the way to make the citizens more secure, that is, by endangering with a bill that public officer who tells another to shake a prisoner maybe to scare him, and hits him with years in prison. In Hannibal Lecter, character of the fiction, if it existed it would not touch one more day in prison with the law on torture: the most famous torturer in the history of cinema would not touch even one more day in prison, because it does not fall within the scope of the law. Minister, you have rightly spoken about the conditions of prisoners and I share your concern. But let us also remember the conditions of the victims of the crime. It would be good if the reduction in the number of prisoners matched a decrease in crime and, therefore, in the number of victims. I quote a news report from a colleague: a person has been accused of exploiting disabled people for his beggarhood in the city of Verona. What measures have been taken against him? He was prevented from entering the province of Verona, and so he will manage his business elsewhere. After all, being a nomad, it won't be a problem for him. These are the issues that affect citizens much more than some, perhaps even positive, remodelling in the leadership of its Ministry. Finally, the Ministry of Justice should be concerned about the government's respect for judgments, at least those of the Constitutional Court. You are well aware that this has not been done with regard to pensions, and this should be a concern of the Guardasigilli. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u43	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u44	Mr President, Minister, I would like to begin by expressing my appreciation for the report presented, which highlights the unquestionable results achieved in making justice more efficient and in line with the parameters of the right process. My appreciation for the work carried out in this second year of government activity in a strategic sector not only for the effectiveness of the protection of rights, but - as has been said - also as a factor of development and growth. I would, however, like to reflect briefly on that phase of the justice system, criminal execution, which is less noticeable in terms of competitiveness, but which more emphasizes the ability of a country to invest in individuals, their recovery and social reintegration when they deviate from legality. This is an absolutely positive assessment of the starting point: the condemnation of the European Court by the judgment in Torregiani, for violation of human rights, because of the unsustainable prison overcrowding found in our prisons in the north and south of the peninsula. In 2013, 66,000 prisoners out of 48,000 seats were available. It was a real censorship that reference to the political and institutional responsibility of President Napolitano with his message to the Chambers. And it is precisely with that sense of responsibility and duty that the path of structural intervention has been chosen, postponing the possible adoption of emerging measures, such as amnesty and indult, to which the first Republic had accustomed us almost every two years. The situation of the Italian penitentiary system, as a result of all the legislative interventions, therefore gives us a situation of almost normality and returns to the penalty that educational function in accordance with the constitutional dictation referred to in Article 27. We therefore record today a reduction in attendance at the prison to 52,000 prisoners and also that 40% in custody, which we hope will be able to go further so that the prison remains the extreme ratio, especially in the precautionary phase. Next and in parallel we have an exponential increase in the number of inmates outside the prison, almost 40,000, as you mentioned. This decline in attendance is undoubtedly the result of the measures taken in these two years - four decrees and two parliamentary laws - and in particular the extension of the suspension mechanism of the order of execution of the sentence, the transfer agreements in the countries of origin of the condemned foreigners, the introduction of the special early release and the strengthening of eligibility for alternative measures. The establishment of the national guarantor of prisoners and of the right of judicial claim has allowed to extend the protections and, however, critical are still recorded because of the non-peremptory and excessively long deadlines, Minister, with which the judiciary often delays to give answers to the requests of convicted persons, who live such shortcomings in an amplified way because of their condition. And these are problems aggravated by a health care still far from the specifics of the detention and psychological malaise that, unfortunately, results in acts of self-harm and suicide, a constant of more than 40 prisoners per year; delays, Minister, as well as the desired closure of psychiatric hospitals. There is no doubt, however, that the living conditions in prisons have improved, also thanks to the operational modalities of open cell detention and dynamic surveillance. Steps forward have been taken above all by avoiding entry into prison with the introduction of home detention as the main penalty and with the measures of testing for adults. The prison, therefore, opens up to external society, becomes permeable and, thanks to cooperation with local authorities and associationism, today offers opportunities for social reintegration and employment. This is why it is necessary to strengthen the organisation of external enforcement and to strengthen surveillance tasks for prison police. But, Minister, I hope that the prison will not be forgotten, because the treatment and activities of training or work within the walls cannot be diminished and, within the tables of the general states, I hope that the right role and protagonism of the third sector will be recognized in the thirty years of penitentiary law, from Gozzini to the Smuraglia law to today. In thanking you, Minister, for the valorization of the men and women of the prison police force for the realignment of the leadership roles, we hope that, in the reorganization of the peripheral structures of the penitentiary administration with the amalgamation of the regional provisions, that the function of linking with the territory, indispensable in the process of progressive outsourcing of the criminal execution, will not fail. In conclusion, that of prisons is a planet that continues to revolve around the degree of civilization of a country and its capacity that, to certain penalties, correspond adequate opportunities for social recovery. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u45	The debate is closed. I communicate that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller, No 2, Senator Stefani and other Senators, No 3, Senator Mussini and other Senators, No 4, Senator Falanga and other Senators, No 5, Senator Barani, No 6, Senator Giarrusso and other Senators, and No 7, Senator Bonfrisco and other Senators, whose texts are being distributed. I call on the Minister for Justice, Mr Orlando, to respond, and I would also ask him to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u46	Mr President, before a brief reply, I would like to express my views on the resolutions tabled. I support Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller's resolution No 1; against Senator Stefani and others' resolution No 2; against Senator Mussini and others' resolution No 3; against Senator Falanga and others' resolution No 4; against Senator Barani's resolution No 5; against Senator Giarrusso's resolution No 6 and against Senator Bonfrisco and others' resolution No 7. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been reproached for not taking into account the individual investigations that have taken place this year. The law provides that the Guardasigilli reports on the state of justice, and not on the state of proceedings; otherwise we would be in a situation, as in other laws, in which the public accusation depends directly on the Executive, a scenario that I do not wish and which certainly do not wish even those who reproach me for not having taken account of the individual proceedings. I didn't use triumphalistic tones, I don't ignore reality. I merely express a fact: a significant pride in the situation in which we had found justice and in the situation in which we are today. I do not hide that the problems still exist, but I consider that with 22 acts having the force of law approved - an important amount of work, carried out also and above all thanks to the contribution of Parliament - progress has been made. I do not hide the starting date, the mountain must still be climbed and there is the fact of the Pinto law, which is for me cause of frustration. I believe, in fact, that paying hundreds of millions of euros for compensation when we lack the resources to operate the offices of Members is objectively a frustration that can only unite us all. However, my job is to say what happened, whether there were positive or negative things. There have been three positive things and none of the subsequent interventions can prove otherwise. There has been a reduction in the number of cases in the civil sector; a balance of numbers has been achieved within prisons and the telematic civil process (PCT) has started. The reduction of the causes is due to different factors, but it is a positive fact that, without significant increases in the unified contribution, this reduction has been determined by approaching a figure of sustainability of the burden of the demand for justice. The balance within prisons in numbers has been reached. It is not true that it has been done by dumping conditions for the growth of crime on society. It is true that this happened in other passages (I think about the story of the indult), but now the numbers say the opposite. Two numbers: that of the overall trend of the number of crimes, which no one contested, and above all - and this is what I would like to emphasize most - the fact that the total number of criminal executions has increased and not decreased. In essence, as prisoners decreased, the exercise of alternative penalties was increased. I would point out that this is the way all the other countries of Europe follow, because alternative penalties for less serious crimes are the condition for a reduction in relapse. In juveniles, where alternative punishments have been used for a long time, relapse has collapsed significantly. We have not achieved the balance only through a decrease in the number of prisoners, but also through an increase in the available places, which in a year and a half have increased by 2,000 units, not making large investments, but simply through the restructuring of prisons that were in situations of divulgation. From this point of view, I owe a reply to Senator De Cristofaro, who raised the question of the prison of Florence Sollicciano, where I have already sent an inspection and I wait hours for the result. I also point out that the prison summits have been replaced. I would like to point out that the start of the telematic civil process has been a qualitative leap in the functioning of jurisdiction. And I don't say it, it says "Doing Business" which makes us rise by 13 positions compared to last year. I don't think Doing Business does discounts to different governments or favors to individual justice ministers in different countries. Indeed, as has been pointed out, in some cases the PCT has difficulties. That is why we doubled the amount of investment in information technology last year. I would invite the senators exponents of the 5 Star Movement to verify a given, which they continue to propose as a historical truth. The MSM needs to be reformed, major changes need to be made. I have specifically set up a working party on this, and I will soon hand over to Parliament the articles it contains. I do not share the solutions proposed by Senator Buemi, but I believe that some go in the direction of greater autonomy, compared to current and political constraints of the MSC, must be built. However, the fact that the presence of a former government representative, described as an unprecedented fact in history, at the top of the MSC, is based on an unfounded fact. The CSM has been chaired for about thirty years by people who have previously performed functions within different governments, and this has not prevented the safeguarding and safeguarding of the autonomy of the judiciary over the years. I would like to remind everyone of the figure of Virginio Rognoni who, Minister of the Republic, has with great direct honor the Supreme Council of the judiciary. It is not true, Senator Stefani, that there is a link between increasing crime and depenalization, or even as a result of it there are migrations of criminals. I do not believe that any criminal moves from one country to another by reading the Official Journal and discovering that the financial penalty, which was imposed before through the criminal process, has turned into an administrative offence. I believe there is a security issue related to immigration, but I do not think there is any connection with the criminal offences that have been decriminalized in this matter. Simply, decriminalization - as I claim - serves to achieve an effectiveness of the sanction that, due to the huge number of crimes provided for by our law and the boundless perimeter of our criminal law, is not realized. It is true: Italy has a sadly accumulated know-how on the terrorism front, and on this I share the considerations of Senator Stefani. But - if I may say so - it does not concern so much the issue of the hardness and harshness of the penalties. Compared to the jihadist phenomenon, we consider that people willing to lose their lives in the attacks are not frightened by the possibility of years in prison. The real know-how available to Italy concerns the procedures for the execution of the sentence, i.e. the isolation in prison from the external context, and a second fundamental theme, which is that of coordination. We are a country that has experienced forms of coordination and exchange of information that put us at the forefront of other countries. The sad events in Paris have shown that an intelligence problem is also the result of mistrust in the exchange of information between the countries of the European Union. We do not have this vice: we have many other limitations, but we are at the forefront of the will and ability to exchange information with other authorities. Senator Cappelletti, I have never said that international terrorism is financed exclusively by the trafficking of works. I have said that France has called for criminalisation of this behaviour and we have supported it, just as we have supported all the other measures that go in this direction. I would urge all senators and all political leaders not to oppose terrorism to other phenomena, in order to diminish its relevance. It is certain that corruption remains a very serious problem for our country and no one turns to the other side. But terrorism, right now, in the world, in Europe and in our country, is the greatest threat to the security of our citizens. Not recognizing this data means weakening antibodies. I believe that we should not divide ourselves on that point, just as we should not divide ourselves - and I will gladly take the 5 Star Movement's solidarity with the Palermo judiciary - on how to combat organised crime. We have all seen, unfortunately, that the issue can concern everyone and the response capacities must be united. I think this is a given from which we should try to start. In this respect, I would point out that the UN agency that fights corruption has recognised the government's measures as positive and has not qualified them under the terms that, perhaps on the basis of more advanced scientific achievements than those of the UN, have been used in this House. Senator Falanga is right: there is a lot to do on the staff. I claim that for the first time a trend has been reversed. It is still not enough if I look at 2015, because those who retire are more than those who have managed to bring in the offices, and I say it with great honesty. In previous years, however, we were resigned to the idea of losing 1,000 units of administrative staff each year, while this year we lose 400. Next year, I trust we'll earn 2,000. These are the objective data. If there are more resources, I hope that we can do better, but it is the first time, for twenty-five years now, that we have been talking about the numbers of administrative staff and the retraining of staff. I am not unaware, Senator Cappelletti, that the provision on the prescription is firm because there are divisions of assessment in this regard. Sure. My role is to urge that this issue be addressed and resolved and not because I believe that the number of prescriptions is the result of the inadequacy of the prescription regime (I think it affects many other factors), but because I believe that this is a fact that has been pointed out to us by the international authorities that - I say this with great honesty - we have not yet resolved. That is why I come back to this House to urge the competent Commission to address and resolve this problem. You will tell me that the responsibility lies with the senators of my party; I answer that I am a deep fan of the centrality of Parliament and I respect its autonomy. This does not prevent me from pointing out when Parliament is in breach of an issue which I consider to be fundamental. I welcome the calls for protective custody, but I would point out to the Senate that some progress has been made under the law passed by Parliament. The numbers continue to decrease steadily. I think it's right, at some point, to do some kind of cutting with respect to the effects of the law, but I have to say that up to here the signals are encouraging. Senator Malan, I dealt with the issue of the court of minors because I spoke about the constitution of the court of the family and the person, who I would like to absorb the current competences of the court of minors. In fact, I think it is right - and I also address myself to Senator Filippin - to take a united approach to all issues that concern the person, with particular attention to childhood and not only when minors are called into question because they have committed crimes, but also when they are victims of crime. I consider it important to have a unified approach to this and this is the meaning and content of the delegation that we will try to get the House to approve and then submit to the Senate. My task as Guardasigilli is to indicate when there is a breach of international jurisdictions; I have done so under Pinto law, on which we are trying to take appropriate organisational measures, and I have to do so, and I do so, even simply for an institutional reason, with regard to the crime of torture, for which there is a report from the Court of Strasbourg. It is Parliament that decides how it believes, how to deal with and resolve this issue, but the international jurisdiction tells us that it must be resolved. Exactly in the same terms - I know I touch on a thorny subject - I put the question of civil unions. The Senate and the House resolve as they believe, I personally have my own assessments that may be different from those of other senators here, but we need to resolve the issue that Strasbourg points out: there is a group of citizens without rights, whose recognition is an essential condition for staying within the Council of Europe and the jurisdiction exercised by the Court of Human Rights. Free to solve the problem as you believe, but you need an intervention and this is a given from which you cannot escape. Mr Malan, on the contrary - I apologize for abusing a title I never had, that of a senator - Senator Malan reproaches me for not having spoken of judicial geography and the same does Senator Cappelletti. I am not talking about this because I consider reform to be a success, a success due to the initiative of Minister Nitto Palma, who I believe has had the courage to address this issue, which had not been addressed for a very long time. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). It wasn't handled by him, though. ORLANDO, Minister for Justice. I know. Then I will say what, in my opinion, must be done further, but we do not ride the demagogy of small and beautiful and of proximity, because it is like for hospitals: having a court nearby does not mean having good justice, as having a nearby hospital does not mean having good health, because if the courts are small there is no specialization. Senator Malan, the answer to many of the cases of malpractice that you point out is in specialization. If there is no specialised investigative judiciary and a specialised judiciary, for some crimes (especially those that have a stronger impact on the economy) legal instruments can be misused. However, this presupposes that there are numbers to introduce specialization. In fact, it is quite clear that a prosecutor with two or three magistrates cannot specialize in anything and that a court that must judge on everything cannot articulate within it to answer the different articulations of the application for justice. It is true that more needs to be done on the victims. I claim that, after twenty-five years of talking about victims, this is the first government to try to build a statute for victims. If you look at the parliamentary debate over the last twenty-five years, whenever a new sentence or a new crime has been introduced, or if the penalties have been tightened up, it has been done in the name of the protection of the victims and only after it has been realized that the victims are not protected either during or after the trial. I therefore claim the merit of this Government to have dealt with this issue, including by giving rise to Community directives (which is intended to be done even more in the year ahead). Senator Filippin, I am very happy to accept the pin stings and I say that I am very happy to have a data warehouse, because this allows us to avoid exactly what you propose to me, that is to go where there is a political signal. Instead, I go to the courts that the ranking indicates being more in difficulty because, moving on the basis of political reporting, we have built a judicial geography of the country where resources have not always gone where there was more need. I do not deny that, probably, there will be work to be done in Veneto - I do not hide it from you - but the ranking shows us very clearly which courts are located in the last places. Unfortunately, nine out of ten courts are located in the Mezzogiorno. There is, however, a figure, which struck me as well, on which I invite the Senate to reflect. The courts placed at the last places of the ranking are not necessarily those with the greatest findings of staff; on the contrary, in some cases the courts that record the worst performances are fully staffed with reference to both the judiciary and the administrative staff. In this regard, the subject is raised, which I have also tried to mention in my report, concerning the selection of heads of offices. A good office manager also allows you to fill the structural difficulties. For this reason, I hope that the Supreme Council of the judiciary will take into account, in its work in the coming years, also the census work that we have done in recent months. I would like to end by thanking all the senators who have spoken and, above all, the members of the Justice Commission, who in the debate and debate that took place during the year that I took into account in the report have helped to achieve some of the objectives that I do not consider to be mine, but - overall - of our country. I do not hide - I repeat - the things that are still to be done and I trust that, even in the dialectic harshness that has characterized some interventions, the comparison can continue. I say this not for a particular attitude to confrontation - which I also have - but for another reason. I think that, because of fundamental rights, justice cannot be a matter simply in terms of the majority and minority. This is something that, in some way, has a constitutional value, even if a two-thirds majority is not required to approve the measures which concern it. I think that this figure should still characterize the approach that the Ministry has tried to give and will give in the coming months. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u47	Mr Minister, can you also represent the proposals for reformulation that have been put forward so that they can possibly be accepted by the authors of the motions for resolutions? ORLANDO, Minister for Justice. With regard to the proposed reformulation No. 5, tabled by Senator Barani, it is a question of expelling from the premises the citation of certain courts. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the presenter whether he accepts the proposed reformulation. FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, I would ask you to add the signature to motion for a resolution No 5 and I accept the proposed rewording. ORLANDO, Minister for Justice. With regard to motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators, as I have already pointed out to the first proposer, I propose that some assessments be made of the government's action. If it were to be considered appropriate, I could state them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since motion for a resolution No 3 must be put to the vote, I would ask you to indicate to it, even briefly, so that the other senators also know what they are going to vote on. ORLANDO, Minister for Justice. Do I need to reread the whole proposal? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Are your requests for reformulation reflected in what I see as text 2 of motion for a resolution No 3? ORLANDO, Minister for Justice. Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall then put to the vote the text 2 of motion for a resolution No 3 tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to warn you that at the request of the Autonomous Parliamentary Group, the Presidency has agreed to the move of Senator Fravezzi to the 8th Commission. From now on, the Groups have an hour to make any changes in the designations already communicated. Consequently, the Commission's convocations are postponed by one hour and, therefore, even today's sitting may continue, if necessary, beyond the scheduled closing time. In order to allow all senators to participate in the renewal of the Permanent Commissions, the question time session scheduled for this afternoon at 4 p.m. is uncalled for and postponed to another date.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u51	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, therefore, the committees convened at 1 p.m. are married at 2 p.m. But are those from 4 p.m. and 5 p.m. moved, or do they keep the same hours? PRESIDENT. - The debate is All convocations are moved by an hour, Senator Volpi.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u52	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u55	IN MAY (CoR). Minister, I appreciate a lot of your speeches. It is known that I am disrespectful of this Government, however, towards it (and against very few others) I have a good estimate. I recognize good skills, especially listening. Precisely for this reason, I would like you not to become addicted to this method of speed that distinguishes the work of the Renzi Government. Justice in Italy doesn't work. But it would be unfair and ingenious to attribute this dysfunction to you or this government. It is a fact, needless to turn around. Needless to hide behind pseudo-reform ads or, worse, facade reforms. Needless to peep, as always happens in these circumstances, incomprehensible statistical data that, in the most rosy hypothesis, signal a decrease in judicial slopes compared to the previous year can often be quantified in the zero comma. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I do not think it is possible to continue under these conditions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u56	I ask colleagues to allow Senator Di Maggio to make an audible speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u57	IN MAY (CoR). It is now essential, therefore, to identify solutions that are able to have a concrete impact on the functioning of the judicial machinery, whose dysfunctions not only limit the protection of citizens' rights, but are an obstacle to the country's growth and competitiveness. There are many issues, even of burning topicality, on which I would like to dwell, but the narrowness of the time of the intervention, unfortunately, requires me to choose a few. The most important one, then, concerns the specific criticality of the judicial system, which is mainly in the civil sphere. This is no longer acceptable to me. First of all, on matters relating to the civil sector, what is most worrying is the biblical times, Minister. The slowness of the civil system is no longer tolerable. 12.19 p.m. (May follow). I begin with this very issue, because the rapid definition of civil judgements is vital in order to give the certainty and guarantees that both citizens need, as well as the development of economic activity and employment, the development of initiatives and investment projects by public and private operators, Italian and foreign. Minister, you are well aware that a civil judgment, in your three degrees, has an average duration of almost nine years today. I believe that this is completely unacceptable, especially when I think of the judicial ordeal that will soon be faced by all those citizens who are suffering the expropriation of the savings of a lifetime, conceived by the European cleptocracy, the troika and the ECB, in this by finding endorsement in a government that, to put on them the crux of the bank failures caused by the failure to supervise the central banks and cheerful bankers, finds an easy way. I hope I do not have to witness other dramatic episodes generated by the desperation of those who, after the damage, will face even the elephantic times of civil justice in an attempt to recover something. On this particular subject, I cannot fail to point out, therefore, that, in the face of an improcrastinable need to limit the duration of judgments, in recent years we have seen a multiplicity of legislative interventions that have actually been resolved in continuous changes to the only code of ritual, however almost always carried out with the same legislative technique, that is the much hated (at least for my part, since I love the parliamentary system) decree of urgency, often not coordinated among themselves and only apparently responding to the need to respond to that need. To this I would add that the fragmentation and segmentation of legislative interventions after a few years have created uncertainty in the operators on the rules applicable to pending judgments, in turn due to further litigation and additional delays in the definition of pending proceedings, thus further exacerbating the heavy situation in which our justice rests. Minister, it is time to abandon the scheme of reforms aimed at providing answers of immediate media impact and yet not sufficiently thought out, opening instead to a wider debate with the operators, inside and outside the parliamentary classrooms, so as to ensure, albeit longer, a more organic and thoughtful reflection on the necessary changes. I am sure that, by abandoning the technique of spot reforms, which is so dear to this Government, we could open constructive debates on fundamental issues for the better functioning of justice. I am thinking, for example, of the desirability of rethinking some institutions of substantive civil law and the development of a new model of civil judgment that does not translate into the farce of the so flagrant telematic process, which has been essentially a failure, as the operators testify. And what about the current fragmentation of skills in sensitive matters affecting minors, inability and in general the family? Our Group, also through the bill of delegation No. 194, which has among its signatories Senator Bonfrisco, is in favour of the establishment of specialised sections, in the courts and the Courts of Appeal, which emphasize jurisdiction over all proceedings in this matter, now irrationally distributed among courts for minors, guardian judges and ordinary courts. By the way, you mentioned it, but we would like to know where the geographical reorganization of the Courts of Appeal is. It is true that we must not fall in love with the smallest, all the more beautiful, but I think it is essential to imagine that the courts work - and you have testified in your speech - depending on who goes to take over the leadership positions in those places. Therefore, I believe that perhaps the problem is to ensure that the Supreme Council of the judiciary has more accurate and more efficient attention, determining the managerial duties based on the ability of the magistrates rather than necessarily only on seniority and current membership. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Di Maggio, finish your speech. IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, since my time is up but I have other things to add, I would ask that I be able to attach the written text of my speech to the Reports of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. IN MAY (CoR). Minister, I conclude by appealing to justice, which is an extremely important issue, because it concerns above all what can arise from the proper functioning of the judicial system in terms of its impact on the economic functioning of the country: a more organic reform would be much more interesting than spot reforms. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senators Comaroli and Council.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u60	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, unfortunately, we still have to be saddened by the lack of time we have available to comment on this report on the state of justice. I am aware of this from the answer given by the Minister in reply to the considerations we have made in general discussion, perhaps misinterpreted in the content, since in five minutes we have been forced to make a sum of very extensive problems; the stringency and the limited time will perhaps lead to not being able to fully express our thoughts. In particular, in order to avoid any doubt, we have addressed the issue of the Italian legal system in the field of criminal law and the law of criminal procedure as a result of the various measures emptied prisons adopted over the last two years, which have created a situation that we have defined as a form of attractiveness. In fact, it simply means that those who commit a crime in their country of origin would probably receive a higher penalty than those they receive in Italy as a result of all these rules. Perhaps, Minister, you did not have the misfortune, which I had, to read some environmental interceptions of criminals in Italy, who just said that so much in Italy nobody would do anything to him. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is the problem, that they know well those who work on the road and have a direct contact with this reality, that is Police and Carabinieri, who see daily the boldness of some small criminals, who know exactly that they can do nothing to him and that the next day they will be free again. That is the problem, Minister, I do not want to explain it now in a technical way and I am also sorry to be sometimes involved in emphasis and perhaps emotional. With regard to the issue of terrorism, you said that Italy is probably better equipped. In this regard, I did not say that the solution to the problem is an increase in the penalties, because it is not the increase in the penalties in itself and in itself that is a deterrent. The question is how that penalty will then be applied and how effective that penalty is. We simply wanted to say that, when you want to create a system that is really suitable for creating barriers, you can do that. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The clamour has been going on for a while now, but in the last two years we have had strong disagreements in this House against the measures we have called 'empty prisons', because they were aimed at solving the problem of prison overcrowding (and we knew that). There was no need to intervene on norms that were in themselves unfair, poorly done or needed to be modified, but there was intervention on these norms - among other things always with decree-laws, with all the necessary consequences of the decree-law - because there was a problem of prison overcrowding. We believe that having tried to solve that emergency problem, intervening on the rules, will have two different consequences: for one verse the prison population has actually decreased, but for the other we believe that a criminal system has been created too permissive and too much side, which allows the possibility of escape. On the other hand, there is another argument that unfortunately we have not been able to express fully in the general debate. The Minister's very full-bodied report shows that the justice system is indeed very complex and has various facets: there are the problems of terrorism, organised crime, arrears, the same organograms and organic plants and the length of the processes. It has dealt with thousands of these issues. What we say is that: you talk about it, we reform the civil process and the criminal process, we do interventions and we introduce the crime of torture, but in practice and entering into concrete, beyond the title that may suggest that we are actually doing great things, these measures are full of problems. There have been reports of so-called street murder, torture, assisted negotiation and legalisation. All difficult problems, in concrete terms. Minister, I was very pleased that you said that there should be a great deal of confrontation on the subject of justice. I'd hope there was a lot more. When you say that justice measures must not be fought only by votes of majority and opposition, you are saying holy words. But why doesn't President Renzi himself convince of this, so that the same criterion is adopted in the area of constitutional reform? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is the real confrontation from which something should be born. For the reasons set out above and seeing that our motion for a resolution has not been accepted by you, we believe that we are now anticipating the North League's vote against. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u63	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Mr President, I believe that this House is already experiencing what it means to say that the Senate of the Republic no longer exists: we must all acknowledge that since yesterday this glorious and secular institution has been repealed. When it goes to the Official Journal and the text is published, we will be a voice that comes from the past and no longer projected into the future. This morning's debate is a model of this. I would like to thank the Minister for having us for almost forty minutes with a report on problems each of which would have required further consideration. I am thinking of civil and criminal justice, the problems of prisons, administration and magistrates. However, each group was given five to seven minutes to intervene. Now, in an explanation of vote, I should like to make a comment on about seven motions for resolutions, some of which were tabled in this House at 11:43 a.m. I believe that the Senate, for the time it will remain alive with its current functions, must carry out its task seriously. The Groups, therefore, should have been able to intervene in a structured manner on the Minister's Report and then have time to build motions for resolutions referring to the Minister's Report. Then, perhaps, the debate on the motions for resolutions should have been postponed to another occasion in order to ensure that this debate had some basis of seriousness and was not one of those old films at Ridolini, where the images were accelerated with the technology of the time. The President of the Senate has warned us several times to make haste because after there are some formalities, except to postpone them for an hour because we have to fix some problems that concern the Commissions. How can we talk about Italian justice and its problems in these conditions and in these times? How can we make a judgment based on motions for resolutions tabled half an hour ago and which 95% of our colleagues have not read and do not know? They don't know what it says. I understand that they can follow the direction of the Group Leaders, but we are talking about such a complex matter that the way in which the debate itself takes place also undermines the Minister's commitment. There are important groups which have not tabled any motions for resolutions for this very reason. ( [[Brusio]] ). Excuse me, colleagues, I understand that the Commissions are important, but allow me to speak. ( [[Brusio).]] Such a strangled debate is basically useless.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u64	Senator Giovanardi, you are right and, therefore, I would ask colleagues who are in the proximity of the colleague to lower the tone of voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u65	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). The way in which this debate was built is unbecoming. It is useless, it is a liturgy of a Chamber that no longer has any function. That being said, I just want to remember one thing. It's true what my colleague from the League said, but it's also true what I said about a criminal system, which somehow protects criminals, the perpetrators of crimes that are most concerned with public opinion: robberies, thefts in the house. It is equally true that those who come to crime in Italy think that so much they do nothing compared to what happens in their countries, where they pay hard for the same crimes. Our system, on the one hand, is laxist towards hardened criminals, criminals, criminals, professional ones, on the other hand, takes the decent people, throws them in jail and holds them months or years in prison before a court has been able, with a sentence, to determine their responsibility, that is to say, to ascertain that those people have committed a crime (I do not say in cassation, but not even in first instance). We're getting addicted to this system. Mr Compagna, a few days ago, visited a former Member of Parliament, Cosentino, who has been in prison for two years, even before a court found some responsibility for him. I have already mentioned how all the new legislation on criminal policy in this Government has accentuated a mechanism whereby first they put you in prison - and they destroy you from a family, political, social point of view - and then they take 30 years to determine if you really have responsibilities. Minister, there's something wrong with a system like this. Perhaps, then, a balance should be struck and the criminal profession should be severely hit, distinguishing between the cases. I recalled the road murder precisely because it is emblematic of a reality for which, if the Chamber were to approve the bill, all Italian citizens who in the morning put themselves in the car, with all the cautions possible and imaginable, risk spending eighteen years in prison. I come back to the question of how a Parliament can lay down such rules in relation to people who not only did not commit the matter with malice but also with guilt (because it can be totally random). In this way, in addition to the trauma, in addition to the responsibility, in addition to the remorse, in addition to the fact that it is right to increase, from a civil point of view, the compensations for the victims of road accidents, for those who remain in a wheelchair, for those who need care throughout their lives, the person to whom such a thing happens spends eighteen years in prison: this is not criminal law, but punitive law. Once the military was told to be worried every time he drove without the driver. I've detected these inconsistencies. I hope that the House and the Senate will not have the responsibility of transforming the crime of opinion, and as far as the resolutions tabled are concerned, we will abstain on all of them because it is absolutely impossible to express a meditated judgment on certain acts which were placed before the attention of our colleagues just half an hour ago.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u68	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, in expressing the support of the Group for the Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE for the Minister's report, which - I repeat once again - has been timely and comprehensive on a number of issues, I would like to analyse two issues in this final position. The first is that concerning those who inflict the penalty, its authority, its credibility, its impartiality. The image of the judge who decides against everyone is a fundamental question. I would not like to call Caesar's wife, but I think she says it clearly in relation to what is the fundamental need to accept the judge's decision to the full. However, gaps in staff, conflicts of interest, failure to separate from politics remain unresolved issues. Of course, we have tried to deal with them, Minister, but let me say that too often there is a suspicion that the judgment is somewhat altered by the issues I am talking about now. The second question relates to the penalty in its most serious substance, which is that of detention. The prison issue is not only a statistical fact, of which I give you notice, but it is certainly a numerical issue, so I appreciate the reduction to 8,000 of prisons pending judgment, but there are still many. However, there is to be considered the role and activity of those 43,000 subjects who are in execution of past sentence in court (I am talking about prison sentence), who live a reality of idleness, without what I consider a fundamental element: work in prison as a moment of particular importance for the start of a new perspective of civil life of those who are subjected to detention. It is therefore appropriate to focus more strongly on work within the prison as a time of growth and responsibility, without which there is no re-education. Work in prison cannot be residual, but must be qualified and always maintain respect for humanity for those who are destined for prison sanctions. Prison is therefore a matter of civilization. I would also add, Minister, Mr President, that the certainty of punishment is a fundamental requirement. The penalty must always maintain the dignity of the human being, it cannot ignore it, but it must give the certainty of a total assumption of its responsibilities, even when the effects of behavior not consistent with the law create discomfort to the community, contrast with the principles of humanity towards other citizens and lead us out of that responsibility to which we are all called. I therefore confirm the Group's vote in favour and invite the Minister, appreciating his work, as I said before, to gather all the forces with greater courage than a challenge of change, which quickly points to respect for the constitutional principles that we have not changed even with the reform discussed yesterday. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u71	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, one cannot fail to agree with the premise stated by the Minister in principle, namely that justice and its proper functioning are certainly a foundation for the proper functioning of a country in every respect: for the guarantee of democracy, for economic growth, for good relations in society. There is, however, something that worries us, and it is the distance between programmes, certainly articulated and shared, and their effective implementation, certainly made difficult by an extremely complex and varied reality, because in the different regions the situations and the crimes that must be dealt with are different. It's a rapidly evolving world. We must also reflect on what today, not only in justice but also in other areas, is understood as the magical instrument, the crystal sphere that allows to solve all the problems, the digitalization, which becomes a mantra, as if it were enough to resolve the trouble and the backwardness existing in the judicial offices, which instead can be solved with a take-up first of all by the people, the efficiency of the offices in which they work. When we talk about the telematic civil process we cannot forget the fact that in order to have real benefits there is a whole path that must be sure, sure, that starts from the administration of adequate resources and that also has to do with the ability to network Regions and localities that today do not have the possibility to work on the net with the speed and the volume of data instead necessary. We cannot ignore the fact that, in order to really implement digitalisation, we must train people, we must motivate them. Here it is a question of forming and motivating subjects who today work in distress and who, in practice and in everyday life, are inevitably more and more resistant to being involved in a renewal, which cannot happen if they are not given and distributed in a different way also adequate resources in terms of personnel. The first point on which I believe the attention should be paid is the possibility, for the decisions and the central vision, to translate through all the necessary steps and through the valorization of the best, that is, through the empowerment of the whole apparatus of justice, in order to ensure that this really arrives in the final terminals in which the provision of the service of justice takes place. If there is no widespread realization, there can be no perception of these reforms. Let me give you an example. What worries us especially today are some categories, the most fragile ones. We have seen with pleasure the fact that the executive for juvenile justice was finally appointed; we had urged him and we were told that there would also be a reform. We were very pleased to see the creation of the Department of Juvenile Justice and Community Justice, as the Minister had anticipated. We are pleased that the implementing decrees have been created and that they have been made, but what worries us today is that, then, this Department becomes fully operational, as soon as possible. In fact, children are certainly the first to be helped and protected. Similarly, we are concerned about the situation of transformation. At the end of March we will be able to talk about the year of transition, the year of overcoming psychiatric judicial hospitals. The inspections that I myself have made reveal that there is still a lot to do, that there are nodes that have to do with not only practical implementation, but also with the maintenance of many other aspects, because the penitentiary order, in fact, has not changed. The creation of the REMS has touched on only a few aspects, but in order to be fully effective all aspects relating to the protection of mental health must be linked. Today, in fact, beyond the non-compliance of the Veneto Region, which however must be resolved, some characteristics of the same organization of the penitentiary order do not solve the problem. The greatest concern is that, in the end, there are subjects who, in the creation of this collective imaginary for which the OPGs are no longer there, will be forgotten and on whose health and care there will no longer be any investment. This is something that worries us very much. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister for addressing the Commission on justice and to highlight another aspect, which also has to do with the drafting of laws. This is a matter for the Justice Commission, but I also believe, in general, that this House and the whole of Parliament. The system of justice is often strained by the fact that, however, the drafting of laws is not such as to allow easy interpretation. The laws that we vary today have, in fact, problems of drafting, which translate into problems of application and interpretation; in the end, everything must be resolved in the judicial classrooms. I take advantage of this moment to recall how in the path of the provision on fake in the balance sheet I and Senator Caliendo had pointed out that all the issue of evaluations could not be excluded from the text of the law and in this the successive sentences have proved us right. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that in the course of the measure on fake in the balance sheet, Senator Caliendo and I had pointed out that all the issue of evaluations could not be excluded from the text of the law and in this the subsequent judgments have proved us right. I would therefore like to draw the attention of the Minister, and also of the other Members, to this aspect. Perhaps in a different dialogue and with the ability to avoid an ideological or party opposition to the discussion of the laws one could make a distinction between what is a programmatic proposal for the more strictly political reasons of consensus and what is instead a contribution to the drafting of laws that can then be more effective both at the stage of their execution and, then, in the end also in the answer that justice can give. [[Applause from Senators Bignami, Longo and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u74	D'ASCOLA (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to announce an extremely brief speech, because virtually everything has been said and the Senate is also respected by making reasonable speeches that try to say the essentials. I admired very much the analyticity, the concreteness but above all the calmness of the Minister's intervention in a context in which he would not have been a fuori d'opera boasting the result of a very intense activity and above all of choices of legislative policy completely symmetrical with respect to the gravity of the facts. It's not easy to handle the emergency, and that's what happened. In managing an emergency, then, it is not easy to identify the hierarchical order, i.e. from which topic, from which subject to start. I would say that in cases of this kind it is not so important the point in which we find ourselves as the starting point from which we were forced to start in a context in which justice as a whole, but in particular criminal justice, had become, as has been expressly said, a real ground of confrontation that also caused unpleasant and embarrassing interference with political activity. For the rest, I would find it difficult to mention the quantity and quality of the legislative texts that have already been adopted. We can recall some of these rules, which were also difficult to write, as well as difficult to deal with in the impact they were likely to have with crystallised situations; reforms that would have had to be done for more than twenty years but which had not been done. These are things that must be said aloud: the civil responsibility of the magistrates, the crime of self-laundering, which remained a sort of issue unsolved by various legislatures, the crime of torture of which we have been told, which is not an approved measure, but which has come to this House because the Commission of Justice has dismissed it and I am rapporteur for it, for what little can be worth, of course, the testimony, and rules that balance because they intervene in a balanced way in different areas, not having targeted certain areas we say favorite. I am also talking about the fight against corruption with a very complex and demanding legislative text and the future actions that will have to be taken. That is the point I would like to make, and I would like to anticipate that I will end in a few minutes' time. On the criminal law front, the Minister said things that were extremely acceptable, especially as regards what we could call the sanctions arsenal. This is a serious, very delicate problem because it is the result of ambiguity, a misunderstanding: the idea that prison sanctions must all be prison sanctions where certain people can be deprived of personal freedom, but it can also be done in a context that is not prison sentences, of course. As can also be expected punitive sanctions, but not prison sentences and, even more so, even prison sentences. I also admired an important reference to bankruptcy law. We must begin to understand that bankruptcy law must be stripped of those notes of punishment for inadequate, incomplete and careless management of business affairs and must aim primarily at the preservation of jobs, of the relevant data for the economy, if it is true that the work of legislation must relativize its functionality with respect to the present circumstances. There is no good law in itself: there are laws that are functional to the solution of contingent problems and, above all, they conform to a context of higher requirements. We can therefore say that the economy is the need, the scope, the context that today denotes a priority over so many other contexts, which can be subordinate. It is in this sense that I announce, justify and justify the certainly favourable vote of the Group of the People's Area, compared not only to a past and a present, certainly defensible and of which we can be proud, but also to an idea of a future equally acceptable. I shall conclude by saying that, hopefully, the time has come for system reforms. We have managed the emergency, now we must demonstrate that legislative sagacity and the ability to plan and see the future, which must make us identify in the system reforms a necessary landing place. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u77	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you for the illustration of your report, in the parts that have satisfied us and in the many parts that have not satisfied us with the action of the Government in the area of justice. (Senator Gotor converses with the Minister on the benches of the Government). However, I would ask the Undersecretary and my colleague Mr Gotor, who sits next to him, to allow the Minister to listen and pay attention. We already have little time to make our voice heard, let us not waste this opportunity as well. I would also ask the Presidency that these 30 seconds, please, should not be counted. We therefore thank the Minister, who knows us, also for the various interlocutions we have had, since he headed the Dicastery, and he knows that we have always preferred a pragmatic, collaborative relationship, when it was possible, and very critical, when we considered it necessary. 12:59 p.m. (Follow BUCCARELLA). Therefore, let us not hide, as someone else has done, some positive and appreciable aspects of his report, with reference, for example, to the European funds in the field of justice - this is a novelty that we welcome - to the reduction of the apical roles in the judicial administration, which will lead to a streamlining of the apical structure and also a saving of appreciable expenditure, and to the political actions that we have found to share with the majority and the Government, in the rare cases where it has been possible to find agreement on some legislative measures, as has happened for the eco-reactors. Once we have given an input on the lights, however, from our opposition role, it is up to us to talk about the shadows and the need for them to be removed as soon as possible, with the subsequent political and governmental action and the support that Parliament will have to give. First of all, Minister, you know, and we also know, that the objectively positive figure of the decrease in the slopes of civil judgments, which has gone to a number of less than 5 million pending cases, is a positive result in itself, but which conceals the true reason. As we all know and as we have said several times, the real reason is the exponential increase, which has already occurred in terms of the costs of justice, not from this Government, but from previous governments. The unified contribution in civil and administrative matters has in some cases more than tripled and this, objectively, has been a destructive reason. The cost of access to justice for citizens cuts out ever-increasing sections of the population. Along with this, the other instrument used to achieve this seemingly beneficial effect is the so-called judicial desertification, i.e. the closure of 220 detached courts, which has led to the current situation. I did not like your reference to more or less demagogic reasons in wanting to support the opening of the small court near home. It is something, Minister, that really does not honour you, because you know very well that the courts and the justice of proximity are a request not demagogic or advanced in virtue of territorial expectations. This is a necessary logical link to allow easier access to the protection of your rights, also thanks to the closeness and physical accessibility of the locations where justice is administered. [[Brusio. Minister Orlando converses with some senators.]] On this point, Minister, I really wish that my voice could be heard in these remaining minutes. On the subject of judicial geography, Minister, I would like to address a heartfelt prayer to you, which is also a warning of a great parliamentary struggle that we will conduct. We know that there are two ministerial committees, one of which is chaired by Mr Vietti, which will also have to put their hands on judicial geography in the matter of Courts of Appeal. (Minister Orlando continues the conversation.) Unfortunately, I can't get the Minister's attention. (Minister Orlando ends the conversation.) I was talking about the Vietti Commission, which I understand has had an extension to 31 March of the original deadline of 31 December, which expired, to put a hand on judicial geography. On this subject it is good to raise strong and clear, already now, the signal that desertification of the Courts of Appeal in Italy would result in a further lack of protection of citizens' rights. Assuming a Court of Appeal for a regional capital and thus imposing greater distances would in fact mean an intrinsic discouragement of the action for the protection of its rights whenever it is considered that a judgment of first instance has been misjudged. Above all, this would have a side effect of exceptional gravity from our point of view, namely desertification also of the offices of the Anti-Mafia Investigation Directorate (DIA) which, as we know, are located in the courts seat of the Court of Appeal. The closure of all the offices of Court of appeal not the capital of the Region would mean the abandonment of a heritage of investigative experience, regarding the investigative Directorate anti-mafia, and judicial, regarding the professionalism of the magistrates engaged seriously in the fight against mafias and also terrorism. In fact, let us remember that the DIAs are also competent in the field of terrorism. We think this would have devastating consequences in the fight against the criminal organizations and new terrorist threats that are rising all over the country. We therefore ask you to pay close attention to this issue and we will have a good eye on the determinations of the ministerial committee if these frightened scenarios are to take place. Do we want to talk about the missed opportunities? Let's talk about the anti-corruption law, which we fired in April 2015. We have contributed actively to the constitution of that text, in some parts: let us remember that if today the maximum penalty for Article 318 of the penal code, which punishes corruption, is six years old, this is due to an amendment of the 5 Star Movement that has allowed through this increase of penalty to be able, for example, to use telephone interceptions to counter the corruption phenomenon. We have also helped to allow the National Anti-Corruption Authority not to see the secret in relation to certain categories of procurement. We gave our contribution, although, as we will all remember, the final vote on the provision by the 5 Star Movement was against, because there were parts of the provision that were not good and from our point of view were strongly relevant parts. For example, there has been no extension of the so-called DASPO against the corrupt, that is to say to extend to cases perpetual bans by the public offices for public officials definitively sentenced for crimes against the public administration, which we continue to ask with great force. It was not intended to introduce - although there is an approved agenda, I remind you, Minister, in the matter of crimes against the public administration - the figure of the undercover agent, infiltrated. I am well aware that you have expressed possible intentions, albeit with some perplexity. I believe that this is a measure requested not only by us, but by all those who, in the front line, fight the corrupting phenomenon. This figure should be introduced. In addition, draft legislation has been submitted to our first signature, which will also give Parliament the opportunity to move in this direction. On the subject of forgery in the budget, we know that the recent case-law of the Court of Cassation is having a fluctuating trend with reference to an aspect known to us as technicians in the sector: I am referring to the fact that the items in the balance sheet relating to goods subject to objective evaluation have not been subject to criminality. We could probably have avoided this swinging trend in the interpretation of the Supreme Court if the majority and the Government had listened to our demands, expressly including among the criminal hypotheses also the false in the balance sheet, constituting assumptions, such as items in the balance sheet, of goods subject to objective evaluation. We trust that the supreme court will settle on an orientation in the sense we want. Let me now turn to the subject of the political-mafia electoral exchange referred to in Article 416-b of the Criminal Code. Mr. Minister, let's get back to the point: it's time to restore the amount of the sentence as it was before the reduction that you had arranged. The asymmetry, in the matter of criminal sanctions, between Article 416- bis and the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange is no longer due to the increase of penalties for the associative crime. The time has now come to bring the original sanction back to the just and rigorous severity that deserves the crime referred to in Article 416-b. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is all the more so because electoral consultations are approaching every six months and we are afraid, even during the administrative consultations that will take place next April throughout Italy, to have to discover - once again - the collusions and the proximity of part of the political class that stands for the worst part of the country. As far as the statute of limitations is concerned, we will urge the Commission (including the new Bureaus of Presidents who will act once the votes have been completed by today or, at the latest, tomorrow) to include a proposal to amend the institution on the agenda. In fact, it is not only with this that the problem of non-exercise of justice and prosecution of criminal offences is solved. I would also like to share with you the greeting to a rule that - the advance to the Members of the Justice Commission - will shortly arrive in the Senate. In fact, yesterday the House of Deputies approved a very important rule in the fight against corruption. Let us be proud of this type of initiative, which is welcomed by the majority of the House of Deputies, and which concerns the so-called whistleblower. I am referring to the rule that will have to be finally approved by the Senate, aimed at protecting those - mostly civil servants - who will finally be able to report, in a protected manner, all the corruptive facts and malpractice of the public administration. Today the reporter is isolated, mobbed, fired and punished. The House of Deputies has approved the measure that will now come to this branch of Parliament. I hope that the Commission's new Bureau will ensure that a measure aimed at strengthening judicial protection against corruption is scheduled. I see that the President is giving me a few more minutes, which I take to remember what we did not like about the law of stability. I am referring to the reform of the so-called Pinto law. Even in trying to be understanding considering that the Government wanted to affect in such a way as to accelerate also the litigation relating to claims for damages for lengthy proceedings, frankly the reduction of the compensation due to citizens does not rest on any basis of reasonableness. Minister, in the hope that the computerization of justice will go ahead and be strengthened, however, we want to complain about a great contradiction in the law of stability, which has provided for a cut of EUR 4 million to the detriment of the budget item allocated to the fund for the recovery of the efficiency of the judicial system and the telematic civil process. It was a crumb under the Stability Act, but - frankly - we did not understand why we also cut "only" EUR 4 million to the detriment of that budget item. Similarly, we have tabled deleterious amendments, which have obviously not been taken into account, with regard to the cuts in fees to the honorary judiciary. We are told that this has been done because the litigation decreases and, therefore, the honorary court judges who are paid with allowances for hearing or for court order are legitimate to decrease. On the other hand, we all know that, with regard to the judicial burden that the judges of peace have disposed of with a view to extending their competences by value and subject matter, it is to be expected that there will be an increase in expenditure. So, those cuts of over 7 million euros in 2016 and over 6 million euros in 2017 are frankly a measure that we have absolutely not shared. For all these reasons, Minister, that I have tried to condense in these ten minutes... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Fifteen minutes. BUCCARELLA (M5S). I thank President Grasso for reminding me. As I said, for all these reasons, the vote of the 5 Star Movement will be against. However, we will continue to ensure every constructive contribution in the Commission and in this House for all the measures supported, including through various inputs that public opinion and citizens in Italy will suggest to us. We will continue to support these measures, relying on better justice. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u80	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, the Forza Italia Group has not tabled a motion for a resolution, and will abstain from voting on all the motions for resolutions, because it contests, Mr President, this way of dealing with the Minister's report. It is not correct to solve it and reduce it to a practice to escape. We should all, together, rethink the way in which this debate is organized. Next year it is right that there should be a report by the Minister and the day after a debate and motions for resolutions. Otherwise, these resolutions are based on their own convictions and not on the Minister's Report. You will remember when, at the end of the seventies, I proposed and had modified the way of inauguration of the judicial year at the Courts of Appeal and the Court of Cassation. There too, over time, the possibility of giving citizens the opportunity to intervene on that occasion has been abandoned. Minister, I say to you, although very briefly, that I very much appreciated your initial call to respect the rule of law, including in the field of terrorism. I must not remind you that at the time of terrorism many of us guaranteed two things: respect for the rule of law, but also the application of procedural guarantees in the proceedings against terrorists for internal terrorism. At the same time, you called for respect and commitment to the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling. Minister, we celebrated together a few months ago the 60th anniversary of the European Charter of Human Rights. There is now a problem with the application of judgments, because the rule of law is not only compliance with rules and rules, it is not only avoiding the plurality of laws that today prevent citizens from being aware and aware of their rights and duties, but it is also respect for jurisdiction. And Strasbourg's jurisdiction, as you know, has issued the Contrada judgment. And I would like to know whether it is correct, Mr President and Minister, that there are people in Italian prisons who are in the same situation as Contrada who, when they have the Strasbourg decision in one or two years' time, will have the same sentence applied so that it is said that that detention was not correct. Minister, last year, since you were recently Minister of Justice, I did not ask you the question of the sentence, which had come out just a few months before. You know better that at the end of November 2013 we pronounced in this House the revocation of President Berlusconi on the basis of a judgment of the Court of Cassation, and that in a judgment filed in December 2014, in relation to another defendant for the same crime, compared to the attorney-general of the State who requested and recalled the principles established in the judgment against Berlusconi, the Court of Cassation argued that it was a judgment of the working section that applied principles that are contrary to the constant principle of the Court of Cassation, reaching the acquittal of the accused, for the same offence. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] This is the opportunity for debate and debate on the problems of justice that must be taken to ensure that there are no other citizens who come to the same situations. We must prevent these situations from being repeated, which lead not only to a departure from the administration of justice, but also from the institutions themselves. Yesterday we voted for a constitutional reform ad personam, and this is the first time we have done this. But the constitutional reform ad personam must not prevent us from continuing to reason in terms of helping the institutions. I merely mention a few things that we have done this year, given the limited time available to me. You, Minister, mentioned the crime of hiding. First of all, I would have liked it if you had remembered who proposed the decriminalization of certain crimes: it was us. In this respect, we have stressed that this is not a problem of efficiency or deterrence. If you go to see the acts of the last legislature, you will read that the explanatory statement in this House is from the Undersecretary Mantovani that I was neither more nor less than the crime of hiding is not to prevent illegal entry, but to allow expulsion. Immigration can be resolved through the introduction of legal entry into our country, so with a clear law of legal entry. There was the so-called Bossi-Fini law that, if you remember, had the defect that the illegal was first brought back and then was taken on. We must find a system of legal entry for those who have the possibility to work in our country; we must guarantee asylum to refugees, to those who run away from wars; but we must also expel economic migrants who come to our country without having the opportunity to work. This is the rule of law. The expulsions must be evaluated for what they are. In 2011 we had 16,600 expulsions, while last year there were 225. It's not that the crime doesn't work: it doesn't work who doesn't apply those expulsion rules that would have allowed the judge to pronounce a sentence that doesn't have to be done. Senator Buccarella spoke about the fake in the budget. Do you remember how many discussions we had on the evaluations, including in the Commission? Not you, but the majority party said no. We then arrived at the Court of Cassation and we have the double interpretation. It was much more just, more normal. Pursue - once again, not you, but the majority party - the optical shortsightedness of thinking that everything that comes from other groups is not correct. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] So, on the road homicide, can you tell me what it's got to do with not having insurance for the car? At the time of a road homicide, this is out of the way of the one committing the crime; yet it becomes an aggravating factor. We don't always make the same mistakes. I'm gonna finish. Even on civil unions, which you mentioned, I didn't expect government intervention. While taking into account all the statements made by the various members of the Government, it does not seem to me that they were completely unrelated to the Commission's attention procedure. However, on the part of the Government I would have expected a mediation attention, aimed essentially at pointing out the aspects that presented profiles of unconstitutionality. That is the task of the Minister of Justice. I hope that next year you will still be Minister, but I also hope that next year, Mr President, there will be the opportunity to hold a serious debate, first listening to the Minister's report and then speaking the next day, with the possibility of expressing a serious debate, in twenty minutes and not in ten, in order to avoid the need for a law every time. Many times it is enough to speak to find appropriate solutions, for what I said earlier, for example, about the Contrada judgment and the judgment that stated that the Berlusconi judgment was completely wrong. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u83	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution which supports Mr Orlando's report on the state of justice. It was right for the Minister to use a positive tone, without ending in demagogy and triumphalism. Colleagues, let us be very loyal to the truth. Until a few years ago, it was unthinkable to compare with the objective data that the Minister presented to Parliament; objective data that finally indicate a reversal of trend. The justice system is no longer just a problem, I add a very serious problem, of the institutions and society of our country. There are signs that justice can be changed and can become a resource; justice is no longer an impossible mission, but it can be reformed. It is incredible, for many years the conflict - the Minister has done well to remember - has been zero, sterile, and has prevented the citizens from having an adequate, modern and efficient service, able to combine two needs that go hand in hand in the citizens and that divide in politics: more security and more guarantees. That is why we support this report. Minister, you were right to present us with the data on the prison condition. Senator Ginetti gave you our ratings. It is clear to everyone that this Parliament, here in the Senate, has shared with you a reform path that has finally led us to a sharp decrease in the prison population, from 67,971 in 2010 to 52,164 in 2015, without resorting to amnesty or indult. It never happened in the history of our country. Minister, you were right to recall the aim, for years called to the sound of words which have never been followed by corresponding facts, of the telematic process. Finally, in our country, the telematic process has begun. The same applies to the decrease in civil causes and civil backwardness; to have fallen from 6 million slopes to 4 million and, finally below in 2016, is a real, real and unthinkable goal until a few months or years ago. I'm going to the staff. Minister, the administrative staff had now been reduced to a minimum. The commitment, covered on the financial level, of the 4,000 units that by 2016 will go to our chancellors and judicial offices seems important and positive. I would also like to point out a particular fact, because in these years we know that investments in our country have not been the strength: a billion investments in our country in two years on justice. The Minister also mentioned a fact that I would not want to be put in the background, even in response to some critical interventions that have been made: the establishment of the business court. For the first time in our country 80% in a year of slopes in this field have been resolved. This is a qualifying point because at a global level the companies that want to invest in Italy look at this aspect, so much so that there is a return of investments in our territories. Minister, I think that the challenges you have launched on globalisation in the fight against terrorism, mafias, corruption, with the other challenge of greater efficiency and more reasonable duration of the trials, will find us ready and prepared. The Minister will remember that this Parliament and the Senate have had courage. Parliament, the Democratic Party, the majority and opposition groups have chosen this route on decriminalisation. Minister, we ask you to move forward on the decriminalisation of the crime of illegal immigration. It was this House that told the government: that is enough with this path, because it is only demagogic and ineffective. We need other instruments to act more effectively and with a dimension that does not deny our legal culture of guarantees. Minister, you will also find us prepared for rights: we did not make mistakes about the short divorce; on the contrary, this House has been able to give a positive indication and I assure you that this will also be true of civil unions. We are ready for this very delicate challenge to ensure that our country also has advanced legislation, as we are required at international level. Mr President, we in this House have done our part on fake money in the budget, on self-money laundering, on 413-b, on 416-b, on the National Agency for the Confiscated and Confiscated Property, on environmental crime: it has pushed the Government and it has succeeded in finding solutions. Some need to be improved, some need to be strengthened, but it has moved on, President. That is why we believe that we are ready with the Government in the coming weeks to three major challenges: the reform of the criminal process, the reform of the civil process and also the reform, which everyone expects, of the judicial organisation. Minister, on this point we will be careful because we want this reform, but we do not want simplifications that can harm citizens. President, Minister, we are ready. The Democratic Party will vote yes. This House and Parliament are in a position to face up to the challenge of justice and to ensure that reform is finally a resource and no longer a problem. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u84	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 2. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Stefani and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 2 at the same time. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 3 (text 2). ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3 (text 2), tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 4. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 4 tabled by Senator Falanga and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 5 (text 2). ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u87	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, before we proceed with the vote, I would like to see whether the reformulation proposed by the Minister has been accepted, because it is unclear.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u88	In the absence of Senator Barani, Senator Falanga had declared that he accepted the proposed wording, with the publication of some parts. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 5 (text 2), tabled by Senators Barani and Falanga. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 6. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 6 tabled by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 7. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 7 tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u91	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I would like to talk about the law on voluntary termination of pregnancy, so that our country has also ended up on the front page of the New York Times, where it has been argued that while we allow voluntary termination of pregnancy on paper, in practice we are not able to maintain this commitment. I have to say that already in 2013 I had asked a question about this and the data we have are quite alarming, especially as regards the fact that many gynecologists and anesthetists claim to be objectors. At national level more than 70% of these doctors have become conscientious objectors, so they make it very difficult, especially in some regions, to exploit the mechanism of voluntary termination of pregnancy. The increase in objectors has increased in Bolzano from 18.8 percent to 92.9 percent, in Abruzzo from 35.2 to 80.7 percent, in Basilicata from 46.2 percent to 90.2 percent. (Follows ROMANI Maurizio). It is true that Law No. 194 of 1978 was intended primarily to inform patients and try to prevent voluntary termination of pregnancy; however, when required by people who need it, our State should be able to maintain this commitment, as stated in Law No. 194 of 1978. I absolutely do not want to touch this law because we will reopen a very problematic chapter, especially to those who have always misguided it. However, I would like to make it clear to you that, since illegal abortion practices have increased considerably (we are almost back to illegal abortion) and, above all, many non-EU women resort to it, I believe it is time to ensure that those who turn to the structures of the National Health System to have a termination of pregnancy have the guarantee that this is done in the first weeks of pregnancy and not in the twelfth, as they are often forced to do. Let us bear in mind that we in Italy of Values have already tabled this question and will now present a motion for a resolution, because we will ask our Government for the possibility of issuing a ministerial decree to put an end to this scandal and above all to put an end to those so-called spontaneous abortions that are hospitalized and that we know have increased by about 70% among adolescents. These are spontaneous abortions as they say; they are self-provoking pregnancy interruptions from these subjects, who then turn to the hospital to put an end to a problem that risks becoming very serious for their health. I therefore hope that within this Senate many will agree to endorse the motion that Italy will present with values in order to put an end to this practice which is certainly uncivilized. [[Applause from Senators Bencini, Buccarella and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u94	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I rise with reference to the emergency that occurred the day before yesterday on the Cosenza section of the A3 motorway. It is intolerable that in 2016 hundreds of motorists remain stuck for the snow on a motorway, as happened on the Calabrian section of Salerno-Reggio Calabria. It is clear that those who would have to prepare and implement an emergency preventive plan have not done their job properly, and that is why we in Italy have submitted an urgent question to the relevant ministries, so that responsibilities can be identified and strict action can be taken in order to prevent new similar cases. From the local management of ANAS, now commissioner from the president of the Region, there has been a strong underestimation of the risk, even more serious because intervened on a highway not really among the best of Italy and that therefore would need an even higher level of attention. There was no timeliness of intervention and in applying the intervention codes. We don't want to argue, we want to give ANAS an input. We will carefully assess what has happened, and we will therefore give our support and call for increased communication with users and for structures to be used in emergency situations such as that of the day before yesterday. The rescue machine didn't work. ANAS has been responsible for the management of Calabria and has started an internal investigation, which is why the Cosenza Public Prosecutor considered it appropriate to open an investigation and initiate a series of investigations to verify any responsibilities and ascertain the timeliness of the interventions. Several situations of extreme emergency for pregnant women, diabetics blocked without drugs and also significant what denounced by 118, which failed to reach the mountain resorts where there were people in need of immediate care. The situation, let's say, has made water on various fronts. We want to pay attention to this and ask for it to be brought to light and for certain situations not to be repeated. This also justifies the firm detention at the bridge over the Strait. It is unthinkable to make, precisely, a bridge over the Strait when things of this immense gravity still happen, when the roads still do not work. [[Applause from Senator Romani Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u97	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 2016 began with some mourning concerning the world of culture and the world of cinema and I believe that this House must honour the great disappeared figures of our culture and of our Italy. It is Silvana Pampanini, a great actress who has worked with all the down great professionals of Italy, Gianni Rondolino, a critic and great animator of the cultural and film debate, a great professor as well as founder of the Festival cinema youth, then became Turin film festival, which has allowed to spread the love for cinema and culture, and finally Ettore Scola, a great master of cinema, a great director, a man who with his films has really been able to investigate with curiosity, irony and even with great realism the vices, miseries and virtues of our people and has also been able to give us some great suggestions on how to redeem ourselves from such miseries. I believe that their message should not be lost, since these are very great films that were able to make Italians think. I am of the opinion that this reflection, this moment in which we look in the mirror, is a moment that we lack today. I think the best way to honor them is to give cinema and culture back that centrality, that importance that we think has lost. Gianni Rondolino had been replaced at the Turin Festival and since then the Festival had lost a part of the prestige he had, because politics often gets his hands on it and because often the possible initiatives that could in some way be decisive and revolutionary are not carried forward. As for Ettore Scola, in one of the last images in which I saw him he was defending Cinecittà. Also in Turin, when there was the case of Ken Loach and the workers of the National Museum of Cinema who were discriminated against, he exhibited himself, as he exhibited for Cinecittà. It is important, in fact, that you do not miss a brand like that of Cinecittà, one of the most important and known in the world that those who manage it today are destroying: it is destroying a brand that has been built thanks to Fellini, Scola, Visconti and other great names. I therefore believe that this House must honour, celebrate, remember these figures and above all act so that our heritage and our identity are not lost. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u100	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the floor briefly to highlight the Government's yet another unfortunate decision, which is in addition to the demolition of public school and the destruction of parliamentary democracy, which you wanted in 180 yesterday in this House. Yesterday the Council of Ministers decreed the death of the Forest Corps of the State, arranging the absorption of the functions of prevention and environmental protection and of the 7,000 members in a military body, such as the Arm of the Carabinieri. I pointed out in this House, together with my Group, with amendments, which you rejected, the criticalities that accompanied a decision of this kind, which would have made one of the most important instruments of control of the territory fail, without touching the many regional workers, who constitute the real waste. You, however, also in this case did not listen to us, you ignored the thousands of signatures of the petition, you did not listen to all the union organizations gathered, you ignored the numerous garrisons against the militarization of the only body specialized in environmental protection (which Europe asked to strengthen and not to cancel), you ignored the letter sent to Renzi by the Italian Federation doctors in agriculture and forestry, worried about the dispersion of the wealth of skills and experience accumulated over the years by the Forest Corps of the State, in its role of control and defence of the territory and you went ahead with arrogance and arrogance on your way (or perhaps on the way of others). The discovery of the illegal landfill of toxic waste of Bussi and environmental disasters in the land of fires are among the greatest successes that in recent years the Forest Corps has obtained, not counting the thousands of interventions throughout the national territory, in defense of the legality, the environment and the health of the citizens in our country, not always mediatically put to the fore. In conclusion, there disappears an instrument of widespread control of the territory, which you once again falsely justify, as you are doing for all your-pseudo reforms, with the need to save public resources. Meanwhile, the ecomafias toast to your health, because you have sold, without pity, the safety and health of the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u103	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, these days the state of chaos that has arisen in Sogin's governance and nuclear safety activities is being resumed in the newspapers. Despite the fact that industry, commerce and tourism have been dealt with in the Commission, there is a need to clarify the substance of the suspended arguments, which can no longer be postponed. If we want to try to overcome the uncertainties that reign in the decommissioning of nuclear centres and give citizens the confidence to believe in those who represent them again, we believe it is appropriate that those who have a role in this game, not without turbid aspects, assume their responsibilities. In addition to the issue of governance, we must address issues relating to the publication of the national programme, for which we risk the opening of yet another infringement procedure by the European Commission. We must also address the issue of the establishment of the Nuclear Safety Inspectorate, which, as you know, is still blocked, which has to carry out its control work, today under the leadership of the ISPRA department, but which is under-staffed and is playing this role as an alternate. If these issues are not resolved, there is a risk that relations with the populations of the territories concerned will be broken, which legitimately require transparency, but above all there is a risk of not being able to guarantee health and safety. We don't have activity planning, we don't have the controller, we don't understand who should govern these processes. We therefore believe that the way in which the Renzi Government is handling the problem of the dismantling of nuclear legacy - paid in the electricity bill by citizens and which therefore requires, for this reason too, an urgent commitment from Parliament - is highly unsatisfactory. That is why we urge the relevant Ministers and the Electricity and Gas Authority to be called to the Commission as a matter of urgency in order to clarify and identify responsibilities.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u106	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to draw Mr Madia's attention to a situation in the Umbria region. From 14 to 22 November, the Region organized a mission in China to promote its activities, its products and the activities of Umbrian farms in the agricultural sector. Well, we cannot understand how it can be that the political advisor of President Marini, Valentino Valentini, has been paid by the Umbria Region to participate in this mission and has participated at the same time in a commercial promotion of the products of its own farm, the Bocale farm. Of the two one: or the same was on mission to the Umbria Region and did not do its duty at the expense of taxpayers or was there for private activity and at the same time did also office work. We want to be clear about this, because this is a bad example of managing public money and I fear it may be a further erarial damage.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u109	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, when you listen to us from outside, my speech is aimed at drawing attention to a question, 4-04848, which I addressed to the Minister of Interior Alfano and which concerns the critical security situation in a territory that is also dear to you, Mr Gasparri, because it is the territory of Trapani. In recent months, thefts, especially of commercial activities, have become very many, creating a situation of alarm between citizens and traders. We did not get an answer from the Minister. We have been in contact with Prefect Leopoldo Falco of Trapani, who has given us enormous willingness, but we know very well that problems such as these must be tackled at higher levels and probably Parliament is the right level. The statements made by Minister Alfano in a press conference in Palermo a few days ago are amazement: according to the Minister for the Interior, thefts in Sicily have decreased by 13%; even the robbery by 17.6 percent. We are then speaking two different languages. Probably the Minister had some incorrect data, because it is enough to contact the "pieces" of state that are on the territory and that they know exactly what happens to realize that he said things that are not real and not true. In this case, we must not spread alarmism, but we must give certain answers to the citizens. Among other things, the territory of Trapani is not like all the others, because that is land of mafia, Mr President, and phenomena like this often have reasons that are much more important. I also entrust myself to you in trying to encourage Minister Alfano to give a definite answer as soon as possible. Let us start with the question; then perhaps a technical table will be put in place, where it will be able to realize the situation that is now dramatic. We do not wait for time, because thefts within a commercial exercise can turn into very complicated situations. We are not waiting for yet another dead man, Mr President, to intervene diligently. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you for your solicitation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u110	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-564.ana.u111	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 26 January, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13.56 p.m.
