ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u3	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time), pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, on the development of the crisis in Libya and developments in the peace negotiations in Syria, to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Gentiloni Silveri, will respond. It should be noted that RAI's live television is underway. Let us turn to questions about the development of the crisis in Libya. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u6	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, Minister, the President-in-Office of the Council, chaired by Prime Minister Al-Sarraj, took office in Tripoli on 30 March. This event, long awaited not only by Italy and the international community, but above all by the Libyan population, was undoubtedly an important political event, but above all of great symbolic value. Minister, on 12 April, you went, first among the representatives of a foreign government, to the capital to meet Prime Minister Al-Sarraj and the Presidential Council. We are well aware that we are at the beginning of a long and difficult path, which also has a very clear area of fragility, and that the control of capital continues to represent a very important challenge for the new authorities that are called to face the situation of that country. The situation in eastern Libya remains, however, very worrying. Inside the House of Representatives of Tobruk there is a strong majority in favour of the Executive, but some characters continue to prevent a regular vote of confidence through intimidation and threats against these parliamentarians. Moreover, the Libyan President's appeals these days to the international community about the danger of an offensive of Islamic fundamentalists - as is apparent from the press reports - for oil installations and the risk that with the good season the phenomenon of departure of refugees from the Libyan coasts raises concern. In the light of this situation, can you tell us, Minister, what the role of Italy and the international community can be, together, to advance the process and to strengthen the authority of al-Sarraj and his Government?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u9	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in the very short time we are allowed to ask three very quick questions. The first one. We would like to know what is the state of progress of EUNAVFOR Med, which many say must move on to the third stage; we are still in phase two and a half and we would like to know whether we are in the position, with the agreement of all the European countries or, at least, of those who participate in it, to move on to phase three, which also provides for the possibility of blocking boats before departure. The second question concerns General Haftar, who is a major obstacle to Libya's stabilisation process. Mr Haftar, the Tobruk Government and Parliament boast that they have freed 80% of Benghazi from Daesh, and all in all this has been a military operation that goes in the direction desired by the international community. However, this means that General Haftar's army is in a position to fight Daesh effectively in other cities of Libya and, in this case, would like to go to Sirte, which, however, is in the theoretical part reserved to the Government of Tripoli. Since it seems to me that the bulky presence of General Haftar, especially for obtaining trust from the Government of Tripoli, is such as to make it impossible, in the end, to ensure that the Government al-Sarraj also has the confidence of the Parliament of Tripoli, the question is: how can this be reconciled? Third and final question. Mr Minister, at your information, do you know if any European country, before the famous Italian-led international mission is called, has by any chance intended to intervene in a surgical but military manner in Libya to strike terrorists? If this happened, in fact, it would be in stark contradiction with all the work done so far.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u12	LUCIDES (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon, Minister. At the Senate hearing General Paolo Serra of UNSMIL provided an updated picture of the Libyan scenario and a plan that, after the signing of the Libyan political agreement, provided for the approval of the Government with a vote of confidence by the House of Representatives, but, to date, this vote of confidence has still not been there. UNSMIL describes Tripoli as a fragmented reality, with the presence of pro-government or opposing forces. There are about 41 armed groups, of which 80 percent support the Government of national accord (GNA), but only in the pro-GNA area there are about 12 forces or armed groups and even in Benghazi the situation seems very similar to that of Tripoli. In the same hours, however, the Italian Government presents to Europe the migration compact, that is a series of intents to manage and contain migratory flows, with a special chapter dedicated to Libya. The Libyan part of the compact migration does not seem, however, to adhere to the scenario described and proposed by UNSMIL, thus proving difficult to implement, precisely because it is not consistent with the situation on the ground. The migratory phenomenon therefore assumes a central role, which many indicate as a commodity of exchange between different interests. In 2015, 154,000 migrants arrived in the European Union through Libya and, in 2016, 97% of 5,270 arrivals came from Libya. For these reasons, I ask you whether and on what issues the Government has interacted with the UN-UNSMIL for the drafting of the Libyan part of the compact migration, for the correct assessment of the Italian position about a probable military intervention of land in Libya and the possible consequences, also in the light of what some analysts indicate, according to which ISIS attacks more if attacked or in any case forced to withdraw in what it considers its territory. Finally, I would like to know whether you think that the request for assistance to Italy should be assessed only after verifying the support to al-Sarraj, which would then be a Government of national representation of self-determination of the Libyan people and, at that point, also evaluate the reopening of the Italian embassy in Tripoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u15	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, Minister, with reference to the evolution of the crisis in Libya, I believe that the desire for a unified solution with the recognition by everyone of the Government of national unity and therefore its consolidation is an essential condition for stabilising that area is increasingly shared. However, it is now evident that one of the obstacles to this solution is also represented by the figure of former General Khalifa Haftar, head of the Tobruk Armed Forces. The general is supported economically, diplomatically and militarily by the United Arab Emirates and Egypt, who, despite the embargo, provide the troops with instruments, weapons and financial support. It is worth remembering that in recent days a thousand combat vehicles have landed in the port of Tobruk together with weapons and ammunition, which allow for the prediction of the potentialities and strategic aims in Cyrenaica, especially on the side of the control of the oil wells. We are all aware of the strategic geopolitical implications of this eventuality, which has been advanced at the same time not only in terms of territorial stability, but also in the international chessboard. Of course, this supply, which is illegitimate in view of the embargo, appears to be linked to the pan-Arab coalition that supports Haftar. In this scenario, considering the dubious positions that the French Government is taking towards Haftar, which essentially does not seem to be in line with those of Europe, it would be desirable to know the official position of the Government of Paris with respect to the Libyan crisis, considering the contradictory position that is conditioning it, what are the actual relations of France with the former General Haftar and if there are actually military involvements.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u18	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Minister, we have been witnessing for months a stylicide of news, often denied, of allusions and also of interviews given by representatives of the Government who allude to the sending of Italian soldiers to Libya. Generally speaking, we are not talking about war, although I wonder what else is armed intervention in a country that is at war, but what I would like to ask you, Minister, is: against who is in favour of whom. Against Daesh? But also against General Haftar? We saw the Italian flag burned in the square yesterday. We know that General Haftar has the support of Egypt, who wants to fight ISIS, the Daesh, but also the Muslim Brotherhood and who is hostile to the Government that has settled in Tripoli. And then I ask you, Minister: do we consider the Islamic militias which are supporting the Government to be allies? Do we trust them or not? Moreover, Minister, it is often said that this intervention would be less risky and serious, because it is not an offensive war against Daesh, but to defend seats in Tripoli or even wells in the desert. I ask you: if you do not believe that this type of intervention is even more risky? I say this because we have seen that, if opposed and pursued, Daesh often flees, while if our soldiers are in a fixed place, they naturally expose themselves to bites and escapes, blows and escapes, so it can be even more risky. Finally, you know that the House of Commons has had a great and passionate debate on something that did not involve sending soldiers on the ground, that is, bombings in Syria. When will the Government decide to ask for a session of Parliament to discuss this matter thoroughly?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u21	AMORUSO (AL-A (MpA)). Mr President, Minister, we all know the importance Libya has, for a strategic fact, to Italy. However, precisely for this reason, at a time when the Libyan Presidential Council and President al-Sarraj have settled, I am still without a vote of confidence on the part of Parliament recognized by the international community, which is that of Tobruk. Alongside this situation there are episodes, some of which are mentioned. I am thinking, for example, of the situation in Benghazi, where Haftar burned the Italian flag, and of the United Nations' request for the blockade of a crude oil vessel sailed by the Tobruk Parliament precisely because it wanted to demonstrate its strength. At the same time, we read on the news agencies that a few hours ago came the request, again from the Libyan Presidential Council, to block the offensive of Haftar with regard to Sirte, which the same Haftar exalted recalling a battle of 1915 against Italy. Faced with this situation, there is a statement by the Ambassador of Libya to the Holy See, which seems to have asked Italy for protection for embassies and UN offices and even an Italian involvement in defense of Libyan borders, both on land and at sea, and there is also talk of a statement by Minister Pinotti about a NATO intervention. We'd like to hear from the government about that.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u24	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Minister, the question I ask you is about the Italian strategy in the Libyan context. As in Syria, the role played by the Gulf countries (Saudi Arabia, Iran, Qatar) is decisive for the balance and therefore for what is in fact a regional conflict, so also in Libya there are influential countries that in these days, for many months, for some years, determine the fate of what happens on the ground. One has already been widely cited by colleagues, Egypt, while the other is Turkey; the leadership relationship that Prime Minister Erdoğan has undertaken within the Muslim Brotherhood makes it a permanent reference point not only for those who rule in Tripoli, but also for the ambiguous and sometimes seemingly contradictory positions taken by the Western allies. As has already emerged from the speeches made by my fellow Members, the question is: who is with whom? Who cares who? From this point of view, what are the strategic choices of Italy, also regarding the role of Egypt and Turkey in Libya? In a matter of seconds, I would like to ask you a second question concerning the agreement between the European Union and Turkey. It is a special agreement, in the sense that, considering the Mediterranean as a kind of basin with two large holes, if one has been plugged, that of the Balkan route, less is known of what can happen on the Libyan route. I therefore ask you: has the agreement between the European Union and Turkey been finalized for something which, regardless of the successive and perhaps late proposals of the compact migration, is also an element of security, zipper and closure of the Libyan front?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u27	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, a few weeks ago we had the news, excited by the national press, of the arrival in Libya of Prime Minister al-Sarraj, appointed by the Government of National Agreement. They also described how he arrived, not without screeching and even a few shots. It seems that the Prime Minister al-Sarraj is still at a naval base, always near the port of Tripoli and this lets us intuit that the new Government is not really able to assume, at least for now, the full control of the Libyan situation, and it does not even seem of the capital. Therefore, the picture that we can have today is less rosy than what is being painted. Well, al-Sarraj now asks the international community, us and all of Europe, for military intervention, first of all with the aim of eradicating ISIS from Libya, but also, and not least, with the aim of protecting the oil industry's infrastructure from potential attacks by militiamen and jihadists who refer to the caliphate. This operation seems to be blessed or in any case sees the United States as a good Italian leader, even though there is a rumor that there is a British ambition to play that role. In your opinion, Minister, what prospects does the Government of Al-Sarraj have for consolidating itself in this context, given that it is still bound in a naval base? What does Italy intend to do to support it, especially from the military point of view?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u30	Comrade (CoR). Mr Minister, it is certainly not because of the responsibility of the Dicastery that you have led, that in recent weeks there have been rumours that are not always reliable, even about the number of Italian soldiers who would be leaving for Libya. From this point of view, I expect a definitive clarification of the number will be given, if and when necessary, in Parliament and without the President-in-Office of the Council having to act every week as a government press officer in order to brake, as we read in the newspapers. The point is that in the chronicles of international politics it seemed that, unlike our country, by other European countries, in particular France, it is irretrievably lost, compromised and irrecoverable the Libyan state unity. Without resorting nationalistically to the memory of how this unity of the Libyan State has been in its time fruit and Italian work (not of Fascist Italy but of the Liberal Italy), it seems to me that it is necessary that Italy, beyond the numbers of the military contingent (if, as and when it will be), clarify whether it operates for the reconstruction of the state unity in Libya or only in function of protection and guarantee of this or that Government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Gentiloni Silveri.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u31	Mr President, many Senators have expressed concern and doubts about the possibility that the ongoing process in Libya can be linear and that it will easily lead to the stabilisation of that country. I fully share these concerns and doubts; if I did not share them, I would be a Martian. We all know very well what the difficulty and fragility of the ongoing process is, and unfortunately under the heading "fragility" we could enclose not only Libya, but many of the international crises in the Mediterranean and in other areas with which we are dealing. The point is whether the roadmap in which we move is correct and if it has room for viability, and I believe that this can be said, with all the premise of fragility, of how we are moving in Libya. We did a diplomatic operation in December, with a conference that in a sense was the stepping stone of an agreement that ended two days later in Morocco and a UN resolution that was adopted four days later in New York. On that basis a Government of national understanding was born. It seemed very difficult, in the first months of this year, that I did not say to stabilize Libya, but even not to be a Government in exile: it was a Government in Tunis, it was established on March 30 in Tripoli. Are you in a stable situation in Tripoli? Of course not. He's in a fragile situation. It is true that the president al-Sarraj is still in the naval base of the port, but it is equally true that seven or eight ministers have taken possession of their Ministries in Tripoli, and that the situation in Tripoli and in the area between Tripoli, Misrata and Tripolitania in general, is relatively under the control of the majority of militias and official forces loyal to this Government. Having checked that progress has been made, but that these steps remain fragile, in what direction is the work to be done? With the premise that Senator Compañera reminded us that we have always been and are for the maintenance of Libya's unity. Here it is not a matter of discerning whether or not the Sykes-Picot agreements are correct or whether Libya is historical or not. Here we are talking about policy and strategic arrangements: the crushing of a country like Libya would be a geopolitical threat for the entire Mediterranean and for Europe; the maintenance of its unity is in our interest. How do we work? In my opinion, we must work first by consolidating the Al-Sarraj Government and several interrogators have asked to what extent this can be done. Of course, it will be useful if the majority of the House of Representatives of Tobruk, who so far has signed documents and not with a session, can give him confidence with a session. As the Government of al-Sarraj asks, then, we must enforce United Nations Resolution 2278, which states very simply that unembarked weapons (i.e. those to combat terrorism) and oil trade must be the responsibility of the legitimate government of national understanding. Last night the United Nations Sanctions Committee listed the ship flying the flag of India, but owned - I believe - emiratine, which had loaded a very large number of barrels of oil from Libya and was heading towards Malta. Secondly, centrifugal thrusts must be avoided. Everyone must be involved in the trial. We have identified three people as the European Union: the President of the General National Congress (GNC) Nuri Busahmein, the President of the Libyan House of Representatives (HOR) Aqila SALEH and the head of the so-called Government of Tripoli, al-Gwell. With regard to these three persons, the European Union has decided on sanctions. One of these three people, that is, al-Gwell, is also sanctioned by the United States. The rest, that is, people who are not subject to sanctions, may have more or less acceptable positions, but if we work with a view to the reunification of Libya, we must make every effort to involve them in the process, otherwise we are talking about the reunification of Libya but in reality we are feeding tendencies to its division. Today, in fact, our main concern is the emergence of centrifugal forces that can challenge the unity of the country. Thirdly, we must work to help the government in stabilisation, with bilateral relations of various kinds. We have not only been the first to visit the Government in Tripoli, we are constantly receiving delegations of Ministers of this Government and we are starting collaborations; on a humanitarian level, in the coming days, we will also arrive in Benghazi with medicines for the hospitals of that city, also to say that we do not intervene with humanitarian aid only in Tripolitania, but in different parts of Libya. The day will also come when, if the Libyan Government considers it, if it considers itself strong enough to make requests on the ground for the training of its security forces, there may also be tasks on this ground, but we have repeated (and I do this once again, doing the press officer of myself) that we will make this contribution on the basis of the demands of the Libyan Government and a validation of the United Nations. So far, there has been no mention of the protection of oil wells, not even on the ground, but much has been said in the newspapers. The Libyan Government issued a press release calling on the international community to respect United Nations Resolution 2278; it did not send a letter to the Italians, the French, the Americans or the British requesting the sending of troops, as that press release appeared to be presented. With regard to the situation in the multilateral international context, I would like to make two comments. Firstly, Italy certainly exercises some diplomatic leadership on this issue. Without getting ahead of ourselves, we are not a superpower, but we are certainly a decisive country in this field: in all the fora, from the European Union to the G7, when we talk about Libya it is Italy that illustrates and proposes a vision and a position. The position is that of which I said: stabilization of a united country and gradual response to any requests, at the beginning humanitarian, then the economic ones will come and, when they feel sufficiently robust, those on the ground of security will also come. In this perspective, we cannot process intentions. From the point of view of political-diplomatic positions, if you question Egyptian or French diplomacy they will tell you that they are absolutely on this wavelength and support the Al-Sarraj Government (al-Sarraj until two months ago lived in Cairo, he is not an infiltrator of the enemies of Egypt) and the process of unification of Libya. Then, we all know that each country has its own interests - Italy also has them - and we must work to compose these interests. Italy and the United States will work in the coming weeks to relaunch this diplomatic concert in support of the path of the Government al-Sarraj, because perhaps there is a need for a call, a refill, a revival of this diplomatic concert in support of the Government. Finally, two fundamental elements in this process, which many of the interrogating senators have raised, concern, on the one hand, migration and, on the other, the issue of counter-terrorism. On the subject of migration, it is clear that we are all in favour - we have discussed this in a recent Foreign-Defense Council of the European Union - of the transition to the next phase of the EUNAVFOR Med mission, mentioned by Senator Romani. It is also clear that a request from the Libyan authorities is needed for the transition to stage three, as stated in the decision of the European Council which established it. For now this request has not come, because phase three, as you know, involves first of all entering Libyan territorial waters. Somehow we are urging it, but we must be very careful not to give the Libyan people the impression that the Libyan authorities are the authorities operated from outside. When we say that the first objective is consolidation, it means that we must affirm a Libyan representation of this path. If the Libyan authorities appeared to be maneuvered from outside, their consolidation would be very problematic. Therefore, it certainly takes phase three, but in my opinion it will take a few weeks before the Libyan authorities can be considered sufficiently well-established to be able to ask questions of this or other kind to the international community. In the meantime, we are discussing this bilaterally. The Minister of the Interior came to the Viminale a few days ago. The migration compact is not addressed to Libya and we cannot allow any comparison between Libya and Turkey. Turkey is a sovereign country, even called a safe country for the return of migrants and a certain type of agreement has been made. We cannot imagine the same agreement with Libya. However, we can bilaterally cooperate and, multilaterally, EUNAVFOR Med and the repositioning of Active Endeavour, i.e. the NATO mission, can help to manage the Mediterranean from the point of view of flows. Finally, with regard to terrorism, I believe that the objective must once again enable the Libyan authorities to be the protagonists of the defeat of terrorism in Libya. In this sense, we will be able to help on the ground of formation when we are asked for it. Many Libyans call Daesh's terrorists foreigners. They're the foreigners. There is a unique competition, today, between different components of the jagged Libyan panorama, for those who fight against Daesh and for those who, before the other, go to intervene on Sirte. If we crossed these dynamics with external intervention, I think we would make a serious mistake. Moreover, it is excluded that individual European countries can do so, since, as we know very well, to carry out counter-terrorism interventions of a certain consistency without the active participation of the United States and the control that the United States has, from a thousand points of view, in that area, a single European country does not go far and we know that the United States has so far carried out only very limited and targeted operations, which do not constitute the substitution of the Libyan authorities in an anti-terrorism activity. We must therefore encourage these dynamics and I think that we are on a good path, but it is an uphill road and those who do not see that this road is winding and uphill - I repeat - would live on another planet. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The subject would require a broad discussion but the rules of the question time are these. They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u34	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, I am pleased with the Minister's response, especially the tone he used and the rational approach to a problem that has - like all international crises - countless aspects to be monitored: the unity of the country, the stabilisation of the Libyan Government and, at the same time, the humanitarian commitment, which can then also be transformed into a more general commitment to support Libyan governance, when it is established and fully recognised. Europe should act unitedly and we are trying to do so. Unfortunately, a few years ago, European action was not a far-sighted action towards Libya and I am convinced that we will now work with greater caution, rationality and foresight towards Libya. I am reassured by the Minister's words.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u37	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am partially dissatisfied with the Minister's reply, in the sense that some answers have not been given. We are faced with two scenarios: one is the Syrian one, about which we will talk shortly, where there is a very effective intervention, I must say, by Russia for the restoration of a minimum balance of forces in the field. We can say all about the Assad regime, but it is certain that with Russia's intervention there was a compression of the territory controlled by Daesh. In Libya, it seems to be witnessing a reasonable immobilization of Western Chancellors while waiting for Libyans to spontaneously resolve the problem. The problem is to understand if this immobility, then, does not generate some individual initiative. I have not heard a precise and detailed answer on this point. The only fear we can have as Italians is that, although we are recognized by the international community as the leader of any mission, in the forms that will be established, there is a risk that the episode of Sabrata will be repeated. I hope that does not happen. From the Minister's words it should not happen, but we do not know for sure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u40	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I too am partially satisfied. The Minister has rightly described a scenario that coincides with that outlined by General Serra and on this point I am satisfied. However, I reserve the right to look into the other issues with further parliamentary acts because, for example, there is a specific chapter on Libya in the migration compact, so even then the migration issue takes on a predominant role, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u43	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Minister, I would like to thank you for what you have said, also because of the explanations given to the questions put by my colleagues, which clearly highlight the scenario in which the Libyan crisis is taking place and its position in Italy. As was said, the French position, in its lack of officiality, represents a risk, not only for the failure to implement the shared objective at the transnational level of the recognition of the Government of National Unity, but also for the inconsistency of a united position of the European Community, which weakens Libya's stabilisation project, whose priority has also been reaffirmed in the margins of the recent EU Council for Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u46	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Minister for the tone, caution and good sense of what I have heard him say, but I must say that I am dissatisfied, because he did not answer the question whether Mr Haftar is to be considered an ally of ours or an opponent, he did not answer the question whether a static mission (defending the wells or Tripoli) is even more dangerous than pursuing Daesh, and he did not respond to the request for a serious and in-depth parliamentary debate such as that in Britain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u49	AMORUSO (AL-A (MpA)). Mr President, I too would like to thank the Minister for his more than satisfactory answers and for the framework he wanted to draw, certainly not easy and not serene, for a situation such as the Libyan one. I believe that the path that Italy is following is that of common sense and reasonableness and we would be happy if, alongside our country, there were all Europe and the international community. In this regard, I think that the only thing we must try to do, at international level, is to insist on the Tobruk Parliament, so that, through its deliberations, it can finally give more strength, more momentum and more capacity for action to the government that has installed itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u52	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I too would like to thank the Minister, to whom I would like to point out, not as an element of dissatisfaction, but as a trace which I hope will be useful for the work of the Government, the following issue. It is true that every country, while sharing the general intentions of the action that the international community has set itself in Libya, moves on the basis of its own interests. However, it would be important to understand whether those who are the allies of the European lever and of the international agreements we have signed, such as the United States, in the game between countries are a little more with us or with Egypt or with Turkey. It is clear that this is not indifferent to the duties that are proposed to us, as a government, and also to the opportunities that open before us. One last point concerns the agreement between the European Union and Turkey: the malfunction of that agreement could reveal a designated victim on the Euro-Mediterranean scenario and that victim would be Italy. So, I hope that the government can be in a position to make that agreement work well.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u55	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Thank you, Minister, for giving at least a series of answers. Given that it is the United States that is advocating our military intervention, we are left with only one concern: do not risk a second mistake, after a few years ago, when, following American pressure, we wanted to export democracy to North Africa. It is true that we have sent away dictators, but we have created the destabilisation of the whole Mediterranean area. I remember that Libya, during the Gaddafi period, had a per capita income of $14,000, equal to three or four times the average income of neighbouring countries, while today it is reduced to hunger. Since the US hasn't been right lately, our concern is not to follow them in a second hypothetical error.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u58	Comrade (CoR). Mr President, the formula to be used would be to declare ourselves partially satisfied. I say "partly" because the Minister, with great balance and care, has not kept any of the concerns of a very difficult and very uncertain situation. It seems to me, however, that it has effectively identified the priority of our attitude. He said that the present government is not a government in exile, evoking the formula of a distant European history. It is a government in search of a vote of confidence, but it is a real government and, therefore, it deserves from the international community - and Italy will act according to this priority - the implementation of the United Nations resolution, which I think is No. 2278 of 2016, which provides for the ownership of arms to the Executive. On the basis of this priority the Italian Government tries to react to that climate - as my colleague Mr Romani rightly said - on the one hand, of immobilistic political-diplomatic stagnation and, on the other hand, of hypervivacious agility of business. Italy is not an accomplice to either the first or the second, and it seems to me that the Minister is in charge of this line with adequate firmness.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u59	Let us now turn to questions on the development of the peace negotiations in Syria, to which Minister Gentiloni Silveri will respond.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u62	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Minister, we would like to know the priorities of the Italian Government on the Syrian issue. Is it intended to defeat terrorism or to follow the American line of dismissing Assad, the last pawn after the dismissal of Ben Ali, Gaddafi and Mubarak? We have, however, seen what it means to destitute dictators in those areas. The Syrian regular army, along with the Russians and the Syrian Kurdish population, has blocked ISIS and its expansion. If we weaken the Syrian Government, ergo the regular army, what can happen or what will happen? We're probably clearing the way to ISIS. Our priority is to dismiss Assad, who says that it is a pure issue of Syrian domestic law, or to defeat and combat international terrorism that primarily affects all Western countries, including us? Since the first force that took sides and stopped ISIS on the Kobane line was precisely the Syrian Kurds, do you agree to admit a Kurdish representation to the peace negotiation process that will take place for Syria?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u65	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, the Syrian situation is, in some respects, even more complex than the Libyan situation. The government has boasted the possibility, for our country, to favor the famous blue helmets of culture. I imagine they were of garrison, stabilization and also for mine clearance, since Italy has an extraordinary capacity in this regard. However, after Palmira was reoccupied by the Syrian regular army, we saw only Russian bomb squads demining more than 5,000 mines throughout the city, including the old one. But no request was made to the Italian Government, even if it had given, in times not suspect, its own availability. How come we don't have any kind of consideration from this point of view? I come to the second question. Pending the restoration of the peace negotiations in Geneva, the final attitude of the Italian Government is still unclear. Unfortunately, over the years, we have witnessed the support by the United States of some groups that opposed the Syrian Government, but in Syria there is not only Daesh, who occupies a large part of the territory, but there is above all al-Nusra, the Syrian rib of al-Qaeda. I wouldn't know who to choose between the two terrorist groups. All the weapons, even very refined, anti-tank and anti-airplanes, supplied by the Americans to some groups that opposed the government of Assad, ended up in the hands of al-Nusra. We have, therefore, indirectly fed terrorist groups. On this point, can we understand exactly what the position of the Italian Government is? I conclude with Aleppo, a city divided in two. Berlin and Beirut have been for so many years. Today it is an extraordinary, beautiful and incredible city, but divided into two parts with hundreds of thousands of citizens suffering from this division. Since there seems to be an offensive by the Syrian Government for the possibility of re-employing and managing in a unified way the city of Aleppo, when this happens, will it be in silence, as happened for the re-employment of Palmira, or will there perhaps be a positive opinion of the international community and, in this case, also of the Italian Government?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u68	Mr Verducci (PD). Minister, the dramatic issue of the civil war and the Syrian crisis insists on a decisive quadrant of the international chessboard that has enormous geopolitical implications worldwide. And this crisis is a factor that heightens the nerves of international relations between regional and international powers. The geopolitical crisis brings with it the need to re-establish a new stability in the Mediterranean and Middle East region and then, above all, two major issues, the solution of which has to do with the very nature of Europe and its integration path. One is that of migratory flows linked to wars. The figures speak of 7 million displaced persons, of which 4 million refugees, most in Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey, but many - as we know - also in the European Union. Then there is the question of jihadist terrorism, the entry of Daesh into Syrian territory. Luckily, news of the last few weeks are the victories that have pushed him back to the outside, but also the placement of al-Qaeda. Since March 2011, there has been a revolt against Bashar al-Assad's regime, which has suffered from very serious persecutions against the population (250,000 victims), a major humanitarian crisis, and many children are without medicines and vaccines. Between 14 and 20 March, there were important peace talks in Geneva, coordinated by the UN envoy Staffan de Mistura, which put at the centre a document with 12 points, dealing with the fundamental issue not only of stability, but also of democratic transition, the rule of law, a new Constitution and new free elections. On the sidelines, there is also a very important issue, the Kurdish one, whose resolution is fundamental to the positive outcome of the talks. I would like to ask you, Minister, what the Italian commitment is and how this will be reflected in that of the European Union and the international community.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u71	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Minister, one of the most delicate points of the Syrian impasse remains that of the constant and emerging flow of migrants. This is one of the topics of greater media attention, especially in Europe, also because of the problems it is bringing about in relation to relations and decisions between the different Member States. On the territorial front, information is even more confusing, as is the role of the European Community. However, the decisive role of Russia is clear, which, with its deployment of forces and its strategic support, has supported and strengthened Assad in the containment of the advance not only of the forces of ISIS, but also of the opposition groups as a whole. Obviously this scenario exorcises in fact the hypothesis of a sort of exit strategy for Assad, although ventilated in recent weeks by some rumors of the pan-Arab press. If, on the strategic front, the Russian position seems clear, however, there are many difficulties in framing that of the international community, even because of the sometimes discordant positions of the different partners. Meanwhile, the situation in the crisis areas continues to be dramatic and the population continues to be tight in hunger. A city like Aleppo for months has been the scene of intense clashes, despite the ceasefire in force. In a complex scenario such as the current one, we would like to try to understand how things really are and what an official role Italy is taking on and intends to take on in the European community.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u74	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Minister, first of all I would like to express my appreciation for the role that High Commissioner Mogherini has played in the region, particularly in the negotiations with Iran, which is an important part of the attempt to stabilise the region, and also for the prudence with which you, Minister Gentiloni, have addressed the Russian issue. But coming to the scenario, it doesn't seem to me that the issue of Assad is being discussed anymore. If Syria remains united, Assad will no longer be the rais of Syria. But the question is another. Mr Minister, do you not have the impression that our ally, Saudi Arabia, is slowing down in every way the reckoning of Kurdish militias, Iranians and the Iraqi army with Daesh, waiting to build a strong Wahabite and Saudi party, which will manage the region's tomorrow? That would be serious and I would like to know your opinion. The second question concerns another ally. Turkey fights Kurdish fighters, who are the most active against Daesh. Moreover, the agreements that have been made with the European Union speak of areas right at the border to welcome refugees. It seems to me, with all the evidence, an attempt to further combat the Kurds, to send the Turkish army there and to regain that land to Turkey, which was allied with forces that were not very far from Daesh and that trafficked with Daesh, to put her foot back in that delicate area, to the detriment of the Kurds. I'd like to know what you think.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u77	AMORUSO (AL-A (MpA)). Mr President, Minister, with the closure of the third phase of the peace talks in Geneva on the Syrian situation, sources of the regime in Damascus are however announcing a further and necessary phase of talks with the opposition movements, precisely because of the proposals for constitutional change in the draft peace plan presented in Geneva. From UN sources it seems that there has been confirmation of this agreement reached by the parties for a transition in order to define a new form of government and, therefore, the urge to the Security Council to organize as soon as possible a new meeting of the International Support Committee for Syria. In the meantime, let us look at the United States, which seems to want to increase its presence in Syria in order to strengthen the fight against ISIS militants, and Russia, which seems to be preparing a new resolution to be submitted to the United Nations Security Council. Faced with this hypothetical scenario, I would like to know the role of Italy and our action.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u80	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, Minister, as we all know, the occupation of Syria by the Caliphate has resulted in death and destruction. On March 24, the Syrian army and its allies finally kicked out ISIS from Palmira, starting the process of mine clearance of the area and the recovery of the monuments. However, there remains the political crux of the war in Syria, which has not yet been dissolved. The peace negotiations begun in Geneva excluded one of the most important forces, that is, that of the Kurds, who - as explained on the occasion of a meeting in the Foreign Affairs Commission with the President of the Parliament of the Kurdistan Region - are the only ones not only to fight against the Daesh, but also to have elaborated a clear position for the definitive solution of the conflict, proposing a model of original and effective cantonalism in the current system and maintaining relations with both the Syrian Government and the rebel factions. Their exclusion gives us the impression of leaving too much free hand to Turkey's claims. Perhaps it would be time to change strategy, imagining international and supranational involvement with regard to the Syrian conflict, after years of illegal support for the armed militias of the rebels that have generated only chaos and destruction. With regard to the peace negotiations, I would ask you to know our Government's position on the decision to exclude the Kurds from the negotiating table, despite the fact that until now it has been those who have fought against ISIS, defending Kobane at a high price. I remember that the Syrian issue is the main cause of the migratory wave that is putting European policies into crisis, as demonstrated by the Austrian position on the Brenner Pass. Mr Minister, do you not think, therefore, that the lack of dialogue with the Syrian Government will make it increasingly difficult to manage both the flow of migrants and the security of our territories? As it is on the agenda to find false Syrian documents, without Syrian cooperation it will be difficult to combat this phenomenon. I therefore ask whether the Government has considered the possibility of restoring diplomatic relations with the Syrian Arab Republic, as well as the possibility of opening the embassy in Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u83	Comrade (CoR). Mr Minister, it seems that the negotiations in Geneva are stagnating, and that is the feeling that we had yesterday too. Moreover, the truce made at the end of February was a truce and not a beginning of peace, because the problems on the battlefields are all those evoked by colleagues. Minister, I would be grateful if you could address the question raised by my colleague, Mr Romani, concerning the city of Aleppo, which is divided into two. On the other hand, the question of Turkey's anti-curdism has been raised by many, which has made everything more difficult. On the other hand, for well-known reasons, evoked also by colleagues, the European countries are under the weight of demographic pressure and the need to hold it in some way through agreements with Turkey. Then, from this point of view, it is time to choose among the priorities of our diplomacy. There is an American and Western position, for which Assad is no longer available as a Government; and then there is, even if it is attributed to him by the commentators - not always Putin in the first person specifies it - a "assadism" preliminary by Putin, who came to the field at the end of last year and who - there is no doubt - will be one of the protagonists of the peace negotiations, if it succeeds to develop. At the moment, the Geneva stalemate has to be recorded with great concern, and perhaps the ceasefire at the end of February had been overemphasized as peace. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Gentiloni Silveri.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u84	Mr President, I believe that in the last seven or eight months the approach of a large part of the international community to the Syrian crisis has been becoming clear and all in all, towards a position very similar to what Italy has been supporting for some years, and not because of its particular influence, but because our position was very reasonable and of common sense. What have we been supporting for the last two or three years? We argued that it was certainly necessary to accompany the transition in Syria, because we cannot forget the responsibilities of Bashar al-Assad in what has been the most serious humanitarian catastrophe of the last 20 years. We're talking about hundreds of thousands of deaths. We are talking about what has caused the displacement of millions of people, the main source of migratory flows on the Balkan route. These are the responsibilities that the Syrian dictator will bear. However, our position was a position that, while not ignoring all of this, warned of the illusion that, with a military wing, the Syrian crisis could be resolved and indeed warned that, only with this approach, there was the risk that, overwhelming that regime, a vacuum would be recreated and that it would be again filled, as had happened twelve years before in Iraq, by something that looked very close to Daesh and the growth of terrorism. Now, I would say that on this line - many people synthesize it with the expression "Assad change," not "change" regime, but let's leave the diplomatic formulas alone - there is a broad convergence of the international community. I believe that we have again been quite pioneers in saying that Russia's role certainly contained dangers, in terms of direct engagement between superpowers and an attitude of support until Assad's death, but it could also be a constructive occasion. In the end, at least in the last few months, one thing has been seen: I do not dispute that Russia has played an important role in supporting Assad, but I dispute that Russia has an interest in supporting this regime for life. In fact, I think he has an interest in facilitating a transition today. And the transition, without creating a vacuum, must of course overcome also the person of the dictator, who probably cannot be entrusted with the future of Syria. There is some convergence, but unfortunately there are two problems. Keep in mind that John Kerry and Sergey Lavrov preside over the international working group on Syria, often with a collaboration of positions and opinions. But, despite this, we must not deceive ourselves to be in the context of thirty years ago, in which an agreement between Russians and Americans put the shirt on the world, because we must also take into account the positions of several other countries. Saudi Arabia has been mentioned, but similar things, even if they are completely different, could be said of Iran. It is not that, if Russia decides one thing, Iran renounces its national interests or vice versa in the case of Saudi Arabia. So the first difficulty is proof of complicated multilateralism. It's not a game of two superpowers that fix the world again. As for the second difficulty, the situation on the ground had given rise to a half miracle, let's say the truth. At the end of February, no one was fooling themselves. I recall that we entered a meeting which lasted eight hours in a hotel in Munich and concluded by saying that two days later there would be an end to hostilities. It is precise that it could not be called "ceased" fire, because some of the parts were contrary to the use of this expression, since it seemed a concession to Assad. In any case, there has been the cessation of hostilities since 27 February, with a reduction of bombings and violence around 70-80 per cent; with humanitarian access to hundreds of thousands of people under siege and dying of hunger; with very important results; with the start of so-called neighbouring negotiations, in which the different parties are different instances, they do not sit around a table and the United Nations envoy, our Staffan de Mistura, makes the shuttle between the different parties. However, we must not hide that in the last two or three weeks these positive facts developed on the ground are put in crisis. Unfortunately, the level of violence has begun to rise again, and comes from so many reasons that it would be too long to describe. But the underlying problem is that, having declared itself the cessation of hostilities (without prejudice to the activities against Daesh and al-Nusra), and being al-Nusra positioned in territories in which its presence is very intertwined with that of Syrian opposition forces, in the end, fighting al-Nusra, very often they have engaged again fighting between the two parties, government and Syrian opposition. And this has revived a spiral of violence. You have to be very careful. So the decision that is taking place is - I believe in the next ten days - to reunite the ministerial conference of the support group for Syria in order to try to boost a process. First of all, the ceasefire for humanitarian reasons at this time is almost more important than the negotiations. The negotiations will take time to produce results. But if the humanitarian corridors are closed, if the regime returns to an attitude of closure towards the humanitarian convoys, then we really go back to the starting box. I therefore believe that we need a quick recovery. I would like to focus on three more specific issues that have been raised. Is Italy in favour of the participation of YPG, i.e. Syrian Kurds, in the negotiating dynamic? Italy is favorable, several countries are favorable, while others are - as you can imagine - radically opposed. The United Nations envoy has carried out many stunts, in the sense that in the proximity talks they participate, even with a defined participation of second level, also exponents of the Syrian opposition, since there is a radical opposition on the part of some fundamental actors, which you well know, to a full participation. However, if you want to know our position, the Italian one, we believe that they have certainly played a role and certainly should be involved in the negotiation process. With regard to the theme of UNESCO and Palmyra, on 13 April the Executive Council of UNESCO decided, taking note of the Italian willingness to participate, with the task force called Unite4Heritage, in the rehabilitation, reconstruction and re-protection of the archaeological site, that this mission would start when the security conditions would allow it. And it is an assessment that UNESCO will make, and we hope that this will be possible quickly. Finally, one of the interrogators spoke about our diplomatic relations with Syria. It is clear that we cannot - I think it would make no political sense - fully re-establish relations with a regime which we preach the need to be overcome with a transition, not to be overwhelmed by air raids. However, the object of the Geneva negotiations are the eighteen months of transition, at the end of which everyone thinks that the leader of Syria cannot be Bashar al-Assad, so much so that many believe that the Syrian crisis would eventually resolve with four words from President Bashar al-Assad, namely: "I will not run," meaning that he will not participate in the next electoral confrontation. I doubt that it is easy for him to say these words in this context, but I think it is a common interest in which even Russians and Americans could be working together to facilitate a transition. Today it is difficult to say more than that. In this context, it is not that Italy restores a normality of diplomatic relations, but certainly we must say that we have not broken them completely: we have a businessman who maintains relations with Syria and who operates from Beirut, Lebanon, and who can therefore be useful for humanitarian issues or concerning Italian citizens. There is a thread that has not been completely broken, but that today is not imaginable to turn back into full diplomatic relations. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u87	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister because he has certainly given us some indications on this issue that we did not know about. However, I still do not know exactly what the role of Italy is in this context. I understand that we have an absolute privilege over the Libyan problem, which is in front of our home, while Syria - for better or for worse - has always been an area where France, Great Britain, the United States and in this case Russia have also interacted. There is still an unsolved underlying problem. It is not clear to me - and it seems to me that in the Minister's reply it has not been said - what is the relationship between the Western Chancellors and the opposition forces, since - as the Minister rightly said - they are all mixed and even ISIS happened on territories where there was no conflict between the regular government of Assad and the terrorist groups. Unfortunately al-Nusra, for that scenario, is confused among all opposition groups. And even recently, when there has been the inclusion of 250 U.S. military in Syria with protests from the Government of Damascus, it is not clear whether we want to continue in that policy of aid and also of supply to opposition groups and how this can be compatible with the actual war on terrorism, which is done not only by the Daesh group, but also by al-Nusra. It seems to me, therefore, a particularly complex scenario, where perhaps even for the Italian Government it is more complicated to give more precise answers.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u90	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, I welcome the intervention of the Minister, who said important things, first of all by reaffirming what I think is a fundamental point of our political doctrine, which applies to Syria but to all action towards the Mediterranean, namely that there cannot be military solutions without political solutions. I would also like to thank him for reaffirming the importance of multilateralism, the involvement of the Kurds in the negotiation process, as well as the priority of the resolution of the humanitarian disaster. In this regard, I would like to remind you that the Italian Government and Minister Gentiloni supported the experiment of the humanitarian corridor which, last February, brought 93 Syrians to Italy. I would also like to thank him for stating the importance of the document which focuses on the democratic transition in Syria at the end of the eighteen months. In fact, I think it is our objective to go beyond the tension between dictatorship and fanaticism, to ensure that our foreign policy is based on a realism that, however, has at the centre the commitment to security and stability, but also, as a fundamental warning, for the democratic transition of the Middle Eastern and Mediterranean regions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u93	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Minister, thank you for what you wanted to share with us, once again highlighting the attention you devote to the issue, especially on the humanitarian side. We know that Syria seems to have become a scale projection of current geopolitical force relationships and Russia's role is perhaps the clearest expression of this. It is for this reason that a certain confusion of the European Union's approaches is, unfortunately, a heavy limit, especially because it continues only to be approached with sanctions against the Syrian Government, which, according to the views of the detractors, have the merit only of increasing the flow of migrants to Europe. We are sure that what you have pointed out can be an interesting starting point for future determinations.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u96	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Minister, I am pleased with the reconstruction of the scenario you have made and the clarification of Italy's openness to the inclusion of Kurds in the negotiations. I find that he has not answered the thorniest question, namely the attitude of two Italian allies, Turkey and especially Saudi Arabia, who - according to many observers - are taking the matter a long way and are essentially giving Daesh oxygen and time.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u99	AMORUSO (AL-A (MpA)). Minister, thank you for your comprehensive and satisfactory presentation of the situation in Syria and also our indications of what is the state of the negotiations in the peace talks. In a particular way we trust - it is what was then highlighted today also at the level of the United Nations - in the insistence to immediately reactivate the international committee of support to Syria from Italy in order to be able to continue on the road that, with all the difficulties exposed, I think is today the only one that can be travelled to try to give security to a situation that looks first and foremost to the humanitarian aspects, but also in perspective to the security of the whole Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u102	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, I have to say that I am only partially satisfied with the overall picture. From what I understand, Italy has taken a very mild and lukewarm position towards the Kurds. I would have liked you to have said who voted against the Kurdish participation in the peace table, in addition to Turkey, which is quite easily deduced. As for Assad, I don't want to defend dictators. I believe, however, that while we have no difficulty in talking with the head of Bahrain or Saudi Arabia, we have a different attitude to Assad. We also have an audition by a Syrian MEP, Maria Saadeh, who said that, within the framework of internal policy, they are doing it on their own and that, on the contrary, external interference can only do harm, demanding the lifting of economic sanctions. On the other hand, we continue to stand still only on the point of eliminating Assad from the political scene.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u105	Comrade (CoR). Mr President, it seems to me quite understandable, as well as welcome, that the Minister, reaffirming the responsibilities in so many ways of the Syrian dictator, wanted to claim a continuity of position of the Italian policy in Syria that has lasted for some years now, regardless of American and Russian fluctuations. From this point of view, however, it seemed to me that the Minister took advantage of this opportunity to add a consideration that seems relevant to me: Russia, in its view, would have every interest in promoting a balanced transition. From this point of view, Italy can only return to the table of the two ministers, Lavrov and Kerry, because of course it is from there that it must take the red card for Assad. It is not a matter of Staffan de Mistura, but Kerry and Lavrov could find their way to this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u106	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank Minister Gentiloni Silveri for his helpfulness and all the interrogations.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u107	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-618.ana.u108	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 3 May, at 4.30 p.m. on the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.21 p.m.
