ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. Questions 3-00941 and 3-01557 will be put first on the initiatives against Boko Haram in Nigeria. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u4	Mr President, in response to the questions and the correct points made by the honourable Member, Senator Puppato, it should first of all be stressed that Italy is engaged in the development of a partnership and an alliance between Europe and Africa, within which there is an action to combat terrorism, also in the light of the growth and diversification of the terrorist threat in the West African region. Moreover, as Dhaka's recent attack has confirmed, jihadism has widened its geographical map, from Africa to Asia, by curing itself precisely in those societies where political and social problems, real failures of States and persistent problems in the state construction have rooted the madness of Islamic terrorism. It is a phenomenon that continues to strike barbaricly unarmed civilians in various parts of the world. In the awareness of the interdependence between security and development, Italian and Europeans increasingly tend to adopt an integrated approach, including social aspects, humanitarian aspects and counter-terrorism. As Minister Gentiloni said in the Chamber of Deputies on 13 July last, Africa's perspective is one of the most important challenges facing Italy and Europe. In this context, our country, beyond the ritual declarations that have long been pronounced on Africa, is playing a leading role, bringing the African continent to the top of the political agenda, including with actions at European level. As an example, I recall the first Italian-Africa Ministerial Conference, which met in Rome on 18 May, at the level of Foreign Ministers, over 50 African countries. Since our country's exercise of the Presidency of the European Union, we have been working on the promotion of development cooperation in a long-term perspective. In this context, in addition to the well-known processes of Rabat and Khartoum, aimed at promoting a common management between Europe and Africa of the migration phenomenon, a key instrument is the European Emergency Fund to address the roots of the phenomenon of illegal migration in Africa, adopted in Valletta in December 2015. As I said, the Italian Government, in this ambition and vision for the European continent, has recently become the promoter of the migration compact. The Italian approach was incorporated in the European Commission's Communication of 7 June on the establishment of a new partnership framework, to which the European Council of 28 and 29 June gave strong political support. It is now a question of drawing up and financing ad hoc agreements for priority countries (Nigeria, Niger, Ethiopia, Senegal, Mali) linked to migratory flows along the Central Mediterranean route. As regards a relationship between migration and terrorism, it is obvious that there is no causal link, but it is clear that migratory flows from those countries are also the result of instability and danger for the populations concerned. Not surprisingly, as far as Nigeria is concerned, the Italian Government closely follows the development of the situation on the ground, where there remains a strong insecurity despite the liberation of most of the territories occupied by Boko Haram. At the moment, it is estimated that about 360 guerrillas are still in the hands of students, women and young men, mostly kidnapped between April and June 2014 in the State of Borno. The Nigerian government has confirmed the difficulties in tracing the kidnapped students, many of whom are sold as wives in the countries of the region or forced to marry terrorists, although there remains the hope of finding them again with the progressive reconquest of the territories occupied by terrorists. Italy and the entire international community, including neighbouring African countries participating in the liberation operations of these regions, have since the very beginning strongly condemned the episode of Chibok, emblematic of the will of terrorists to prevent women's emancipation by all means and, more generally, the social progress of the population. Italy, like the international community and the countries bordering Nigeria, immediately activated itself in the multilateral sphere, supporting the Nigerian initiative to include Boko Haram in the lists of terrorist organisations related to Al-Qaeda and supporting international consultation to combat the phenomenon of Islamic terrorism in Nigeria, implemented since 2014. In this way, a regional mobilization against terrorism was promoted, providing for the exchange of information and the establishment of coordinated patrols, including the Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF), consisting of Nigeria, Chad, Niger, Benin and Cameroon to counter the actions of Boko Haram in the basin of Lake Chad. Also thanks to the impetus and support of all the European countries and Italy, the European Union has made a contribution of 50 million euros available to the founding international force and has intervened in support of the African security forces through the sending of security experts, also providing its contribution in the field of reform of criminal justice and humanitarian assistance (water and health). In addition, Italy has carried out some projects in the field of training for the Nigerian security forces, as a further Italian contribution to the fight against terrorism and organised crime in Nigeria. With regard to humanitarian initiatives, Italy is actively involved in the ongoing discussions at European capital level within the European Union's humanitarian aid group. In addition, Italian cooperation directly provided an emergency contribution of EUR 350,000 in March 2015 to support assistance activities for internally displaced persons and host communities in North Cameroon affected by Boko Haram. I would therefore like to conclude by confirming Italy's strong commitment to a strategic vision of reopening a relationship between Europe and Africa, outside the ritual projects of cooperation or sharing and solidarity, building on concrete initiatives a support to the growth of a country that, between migratory flows, persistent problems of poverty and new rooting of forces related to jihadism (before Al-Qaeda and now the caliphate of Daesh) seriously endanger the lives of so many citizens forced to flee. The crises and security challenges in Africa, with particular reference to the phenomenon of Boko Haram, will also be one of the main priorities of our country and Parliament in 2017, during the Italian Presidency of the G7 and our mandate as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u7	PUPPATE (PD). Thank you, Mr Undersecretary, for your extensive assessment, in relation to two questions dated (the first is from 2014 and the second is from 2015), but which, as you have seen, also in relation to the ascribed facts, are unfortunately contemporary; indeed, in some respects they are a first evidence, particularly in relation to the affected countries that you mentioned. Of course we are referring to Nigeria, but also Cameroon, Mali, Chad, etc.; all countries that have seen a progression towards violence and occupation by the forces that have referred to al-Baghdadi and the same Islamic State and that have made the lives of the local populations even more difficult, if possible up to the extreme consequences. If we go to verify what happens with regard to immigration to Italy, we see that, for example, asylum applications by those who come from those territorial realities are assessed with difficulty in the various institutions and courts called to consider those positions, precisely because it is difficult to determine the deep reasons for the departure, mixing different reasons. On the one hand, there is certainly the occupation by strongly violent forces that limit individual freedoms, making them, as is evident, in many cases impossible; on the other hand, this is combined with a historical difficulty, which has been widening over the last few years, making it even more difficult for the lives of local populations, for objective poverty. Italy is carrying out its intervention with difficulty, because of course we are also experiencing our internal problems. But today we are necessarily conditioned to put together the issues, trying not to see them detached from each other. You spoke before cooperation, partnership and our international intervention, aimed not only at helping the people of these African realities, but also at strengthening their capacity for internal defence and supporting themselves adequately from a school and educational point of view. The first question arose precisely from Boko Haram's abduction of more than two hundred girls. It is significant that there were more than two hundred students from a high school and that their emancipation, as women and as civil subjects of Nigeria, was thus able to promote a different society for their future. Unfortunately, we still know almost nothing about them. This then tells us how the battle is on several fronts: on the educational and education front, on the front of international cooperation and humanitarian aid, but also on the front of peace and aid to an internal defence and also on the front of the need to guarantee to these people the ability to remain in their territory and to be able to expect a future remaining in those territories. This is the hope and I thank you for this further information which, in some way, highlights the great will, which has never failed from this Government since it took office, to promote strong international cooperation. On the other hand, there is a desire to move forward, also in the appropriate international fora (and I believe that what can be done in those areas is important), in order to promote peace, cooperation and above all the freedom of these peoples subject to unacceptable conditions. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u8	Following is the question 3-02441, on the seizure of flags with the coat of arms of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies during a football match of Naples. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u9	Mr President, with the question on the agenda, Senator Pepe asks to know what were the reasons behind the seizure of scarves and about ten flags with the coat of arms of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies, which would have been operated by staff of the State Police on the occasion of the Europa League match in Naples, held at the Stadio São Paulo on 5 November last year. This in a context that sees unpunished throughout Italy the display of symbols and banners and the spread of choirs with racist and intolerant content. Evidence in advance that no seizure of scarves or flags bearing the coat of arms of the Two Sicilies was carried out at the aforementioned football match. In addition, there is no evidence of the adoption of measures prohibiting access to sporting events, the so-called DASPO, or the execution of arrests against those who refused to hand over the banners in question. On a more general level, I represent that for some time this Administration has one of its objectives to ensure the smooth and serene conduct of football competitions, preventing them from being the occasion to manifest ideologies that have nothing to do with sports agonism. To this end, the National Observatory on Sports Events, set up at the Department of Public Security, has the task of ensuring, through appropriate guidelines, the uniform application throughout the national territory of the provisions and measures for the prevention and combating of accidents and disturbances in the event of sports competitions. In particular, since 2007, the Observatory has provided for a ban on the introduction of flags and flags inside sports facilities, with the exception of those containing the colours of its team and the States represented in the field. The introduction in the installations of symbols not relevant to the event in program is subject to the authorization of the Operating Group, specifically constituted by the aforementioned Observatory, in compliance with the current regulations. Analogous authorization is required in any case for the introduction into the stages of sound diffusion media. This in order to ensure both the quality of the show, which would be affected by the exposure of messages contrary to good taste and sports ethics, and the safety of spectators, athletes and those interested in the management of the sporting event. With regard to the alleged impunity that the authors of gestures or messages of intolerance or racist content would enjoy in the Italian stadiums, I assure you of course that the Administration of the Interior is also strongly committed to this aspect. The Observatory, through numerous determinations, has provided indications aimed at enforcing the prohibition of any form of racial, ethnic or religious discrimination or intolerance through the dissemination of choirs or the exposure of writings within and outside sports facilities. This commitment is also attested by the activity of the task force for the safety of sports events, established at the beginning of 2014 with the participation of all the players in the world of football, to identify and analyse in detail innovative formulas aimed at improving the levels of safety in the Italian stadiums. In implementation of the package of security measures launched by that body on 7 April 2014, initiatives were launched to carry out new campaigns to prevent the various forms of discrimination, to be taken in sports facilities also in collaboration with the Monitoring Centre for Safety against Discriminatory Acts. I conclude by pointing out that the objective that the Government, in close association with sports clubs, intends to pursue with the whole of the measures that I have just described is to return the football show to a dimension of normality and serenity that it also calls for a greater attendance of the places where sporting events take place by families and young people.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u12	PEPE (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I would like to thank the Under-Secretary of State for his reply. However, I would like to highlight a number of aspects. One of all: in Naples, for many years, the flag (such as that seized, because it was kidnapped - I can assure you - otherwise my question would not have made sense, we do not know who it was but still some problem we had) has become part of the symbolisms associated with the team of Napoli football and especially to the city and to that South Italy understood as cultural heir of the glorious Kingdom of the Two Sicilies with a historical and cultural value more than political. It is not a marginal issue, because it is generating growing resentment. Believe me, it is not a question of anything, it is not an irrelevant issue, it is a question of identity, and above all of history, of reference to the past. It's our story because the history of the Bourbon dynasty belongs to us. We are again forced, despite ourselves, because of these incessant episodes, to defend our identity, our denied history, because we know that it was a rather dark page of our history and still today there is the secret of state over some events that happened 150 years ago. With regard to symbols, ladies and gentlemen, there is history, pride, identity and culture in that flag, values in which thousands of citizens are recognised, with pride, indeed, but without denying the Republic and the State. It is a flag that represents our roots, unfortunately still denied and humiliated and this must be taken into account so that we do not repeat any more incresive episodes that, believe me, create problems when we just want to celebrate sport as always our city boasts to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u13	Following is the question 3-02777, on a neo-fascist demonstration in Aprilia, in the province of Latina, on April 25 of each year. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question on the agenda draws the attention of the Minister of the Interior to the demonstration which, as you already mentioned, every year on 25 April, right-wing militants promote in Aprilia, to remember the fallen of a battalion of the X MAS flotilla. In relation to this year's re-enactment, Senator Cervellini asked for a speech by the Prefect of Latina aimed at preventing the event from taking place once again in conjunction with the celebrations of liberation from Nazi Fascism. Of course, my response will be a final one, which will take into account the activity of provincial public security authorities and police forces to prevent disruption of law and order and public security. Indeed for several years, on the morning of April 25, some right-wing militants have been gathering in the hamlet Campoverde di Aprilia, in front of the memorial stone of the fallen of the Italian Social Republic, to stay for a few minutes, to deposit a crown of flowers and, at the end of the ceremony, to go to Neptune at the cemetery dedicated to the fallen of the Italian Social Republic. In recent years, and precisely from 2013, a mobilization of opposite political sign takes place in conjunction with the gathering, with moments of tension controlled by police forces in the service of public order. This year, in view of April 25, both the national leader of the political movement La Right and the president of the National Association of Partisans of Aprilia have presented a regular notice of demonstration in the police station. In the following days there were no lack of abusive and intimidating statements against the ANPI by a leader of the right-wing extremist group called Militia; statements publicly disapproved by representatives of the right-wing movement promoting the commemoration. The issue was examined at a police coordination meeting convened by the Prefect of Latina on 13 April. The analysis carried out showed that there were no contraindications to the two meetings and how, in reality, the only critical aspects concerned their concomitant conduct. In view of this, the public security authorities have taken all appropriate measures and arrangements to prevent public order disturbance, including by imposing special requirements aimed at avoiding the simultaneousity of rallies. About 100 people participated in the commemoration organized by the right-wing movements, including several dozen militants from the Militia and New Force groups. At the same time, in front of the square, about 40 members of the ANPI and representatives of left-wing movements gathered, clearly in advance of the time prescribed by the police station, to mark anti-fascist slogans. The presence of the Senator was also noted among the counter-manifestos. The ceremony took place without interruption and the public order and safety device prepared for the occasion prevented the recording of moments of tension. These are the facts, from which emerges how the prefect and the quaestor of Latina, guaranteeing the conduct of both demonstrations in an appropriate framework of security, have realized a fair contemperation of the various legally relevant interests at stake and, thus operating, have moved in the wake of the constitutional principles and provisions of the single text of the laws of public security, which delimit the powers of the public authorities in the event of the indictation of public demonstrations.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u17	CERVELLINI (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I just want to stigmatize some of the remarks made by the Under-Secretary of State. No one, including the previous question and the subsequent request for a meeting, questioned the timely and appropriate work of the police forces. The point that arises is the unprecedented authorization to initiatives that see the public and flaunted celebration, with the use also of behaviors and gestures such as the Roman greeting, as well as threats also on the part of condemned by our justice, the history of that barbaric battalion, fruit of the X MAS, which produced mourning, misdeeds and crimes in occasion of the Second World War and which made the prefect of Milan of the time, in 1944, say that it was a reality that had to be removed from the city. In those places and then in the subsequent retreat, in the Centre and in the North of Italy, continued by the exponents of this battalion, crimes, persecutions, reprisals and other hateful misdeeds. We, and other interrogators, believe that these episodes of provocation to the Italian Republic must cease. We have at heart the memory, when it is remembrance - therefore without ostentation and without public demonstrations - in places where private memories must be celebrated and above all not on the day of April 25, which is not the feast of a part, but the feast of the Italian people, who through the struggle of liberation has determined this democracy and this democratic constitution anti-fascist.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u18	The following is Question 3-02993 on the establishment of a task force for the enforcement of laws by foreign entrepreneurs and against unfair competition. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the events that took place on 29 June last in Sesto Fiorentino, when routine checks were carried out on a Chinese company by ASL personnel, in cooperation with police officers, were characterised by the violent and intolerant reaction to ongoing checks, which were considered to be vexatory and discriminatory. The intervention of the Forces of the Order, marked by the balance and a careful management of the moments of greater tension, has managed to restore the calm among the demonstrators, while the activity carried out by the police and prefecture of Florence has served to prevent that other episodes of protest could be staged in the following days. In this context, it was also very useful to cooperate with the Chinese consular authorities, with whom a dialogue channel has always been active, through which unjustified suspicions of the actual reasons for the controls have been removed. In any case, the disturbances in question are still the subject of investigative activities by the mobile teams of Florence and Prato, in the context of a criminal proceedings instituted at the prosecutor's office of the Republic of the court of Florence. In fact, it has been since 2014, following the fire of a shed in Prato in which seven Chinese citizens lost their lives, which in the Tuscan manufacturing district, in particular in the area of Florence-Prato-Pistoia, is implemented an extraordinary three-year plan of controls, carried out on a monthly basis and based on round checks. In fact, it is not only the commercial aspect that is being observed, especially for the profile of trademark counterfeiting, but also the prevention of the phenomenon of undeclared work, the irregular and undeclared work, the social protection of workers and the safety of the workplace. Of course, these are controls directed towards any entrepreneurial activity, regardless of the nationality of the manager or of the workers, whose main aim is to ensure that the rules of proper competitiveness are strictly respected, for the benefit of the market and of the workers themselves, as well as - to add - to prevent repeated episodes such as those just mentioned. This activity, which selects in advance the type of companies to be controlled, is based on periodic inspections of the territorial offices of the Ministry of Labour, as well as on accesses made by technicians of the competent ASL. In both cases, the checks take advantage of the collaborative contribution of police operators, sometimes giving rise to real joint access. The working method implemented so far has given positive results, allowing to emerge substantial pockets of irregularities in the basin of Florence-Prato-Pistoia, where the ASL operators have checked, between September 2014 and May 2016, 5,823 companies, 64 percent of which has revealed deficiencies or criticalities of various types and severity. It is significant that the examination of the trend over time of such controls has shown a progressive improvement in the percentages of the companies turned out in order, testifying to the validity of the approach adopted by the public authorities. On the front of the contrast to the black work, also important are the data relating to the activities of the territorial directions of the work of Florence and Prato, that have carried out, in the course of 2015, for both the Provinces, approximately 4,000 inspection accesses. As a result of these inspections, a large number of penalties were imposed for undeclared work and the use of illegal labour. As for the profiles of economic crime and the reinvestment and recycling of illicit profits, also coming from circumvention or tax evasion, I refer that, between 2014 and 2016, the departments of the Finance Guard have carried out, in the Provinces of Florence and Prato alone, 776 inspection actions against individual companies and companies attributable to subjects of Chinese ethnicity. These activities have allowed: to identify a total of 173 total or paratotal evaders; to propose the recovery to tax of a greater gross tax base of approximately 248 million euros; to find unaccounted revenues for approximately 8 million euros and an escape of the value added tax for beyond 57 million euros. Severo was also the contrast to money transfers, which made it possible to ascertain, in terms of cross-border movement of capital, amounts not declared for about 21 million euros in respect of more than 2,000 Chinese nationals who have operated throughout the national territory. In the areas of counterfeit and contraband products, the Finance Guard has established, over a period of two years, violations related to the false designation of origin and the danger to the health of consumers, against 2,348 Chinese citizens, subjecting to seizure almost 90 million irregular products throughout the country. More generally, I assure you that the provincial authorities of public security and the police will continue to keep high attention on trafficking, exploitation and illegal activities of various kinds within the Chinese communities, in order to catch warning signs and events that make it necessary to take further measures to prevent or combat crime. Finally, responding to the specific solicitation concerning the Chinese association called Deer White, I inform that, based on the current findings of the investigations, the same is involved in the facts of Sesto Fiorentino only marginally and to clashes already begun. The mobile team of Prato has found, in fact, that some of the members of the association have moved from Prato to Florence only late in the evening, called to pick up by a call based on word of mouth, happened through telephone chat in use to the members of the same Chinese community. However, investigative activities are still under way to understand the actual consistency and extent of the participation of the association in the disorders we have talked about. As reported in the question, on the morning of 1 July, the mobile team of Prato, regardless of the facts of Sesto Fiorentino, had already scheduled the conduct of searches on behalf of seven members and of the two headquarters of the association. The suspects of crimes contested and that have led to searches concern the association to criminals aimed at acts of violence for ethnic reasons and with racist purposes. As far as the investigation revealed, the group of searched persons had organized and carried out rounds and punitive raids against subjects of Mahrebine ethnicity, accused of robbing Chinese citizens. In the course of the searches, several people with a history of illegal immigration and other crimes have been identified and improperly used objects have been seized, such as clubs to target potential victims. One of the members of the association, a prisoner in semi-freedom for murder, was recognized as one of the Chinese citizens who on the evening of June 29 were present in Sesto Fiorentino and then, on June 30, manifested in front of the court of the capital of the same city, on the occasion of the rite for direct to the Chinese arrested the previous evening. Of course, semi-freedom has been withdrawn from this subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u22	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for his reply, because it is not that there are so many of them, but it is not enough; indeed, the very data you have reported show in all its seriousness a pervasive phenomenon of illegality and the responsibilities also from your Dicastery for the fact that this situation has been consolidated over the years. When checks on two out of three companies turn out to be irregular, we have made it clear that we need extraordinary measures to suppress this phenomenon, extraordinary measures that we still do not see, yet for months I have been denouncing this situation and proposing adjustments to your attention: for example, in my question of 28 April last I asked the Government some questions and I did not get an answer. However, we come to another point that I would like to point out, namely how this system has been consolidated and how perhaps the control due has not been done before. For years you have told us that China would be the market of the future for Italian companies, that our goods would find new outlets in the emerging Chinese middle class, that China's entry into the World Trade Organisation was the biggest deal in history; after fifteen years, however, we discover - but we know it for a long time - that our trade balance shows a Caporetto: we are the third country with the highest trade deficit towards China, we are being invaded by their goods. The only European country to be active is Germany. For our companies, which have a manufacturing vocation, it is a disaster. Italy is in fact the terminal of a new silk route, which they call one belt, one road: a huge infrastructure that starts from China, railway and maritime; it crosses sixty countries and involves 4 billion people, and is the essential outlet for the overcapacity of China and all South-East Asia. China has a statist and authoritarian but far-sighted regime, and has built its foundations in Italy for many years. Prato, Milan, Padua are the heads of bridges consolidated over the years, despite the repeated scandals for violations of labour standards, the trade in counterfeit and harmful products and the enormous movements of suspicious money through money transfers: just those you remembered. It seems that we discover it today, but a system of this kind is not improvised and comes from the lawlessness and competitive advantage that guarantees those enterprises, but it consolidates thanks to the historical and uninterrupted laissez faire of the left that governs those territories. You give us the example of the tragic fire in which seven Chinese workers died. But the census is not in 2014, but in 2008; for three times the local municipality has gone to search those sheds, but has limited itself to censusing the size of the dormitories for the sole purpose of obtaining the tax, that is the taxes on the garbage takeaway. It's all normal. And yet, things were known and denounced by our entrepreneurs, according to whom, if an apartment has several kWatts of electricity supply, it is not a house but a workshop; if I find ten sewing machines and only two regular workers, that is a place of illegality and avoidance. They ask us to allow our Forces of Order - here, Undersecretary, it is your responsibility or your Dicastery - to do the night controls, because at night our entrepreneurs sleep, little, and work during the day, while the opposite happens in many, too many Chinese businesses. Then we have to decide what we want to do, because we have granted a sort of extraterritoriality in which Chinese companies have a substantial impunity in Tuscany, stronghold territory of the left, but perhaps we could say, more precisely, uncontested fiefdom of our President of the Council and his associates crutches of Government. Today we discover a sort of swamp where there are not only the scandals Monte Paschi and Banca Etruria, but also these districts where illegality reigns, where there is even a sort of private police that, albeit marginally, intervenes in very serious facts, where a control of the health authorities is hindered by force. We cannot minimize these signals, because they tell us that what is born as commercial and fiscal lawlessness has become something very serious in terms of public order. This is the tip of the iceberg that cannot be traced back to the huge submerged underneath. We need extraordinary and urgent regulations. If this is the economic system that the President-in-Office of the Council has in mind, we cannot allow it to touch us in our security and legality even on public order.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u23	Following is the question 3-02769 on the hydrogeological failure in Emilia-Romagna. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u24	Mr President, with reference to this question on the particularities of the Rhine river basin, and in particular to the problems of the banks mainly linked to erosion in certain sections of the Rhine in the Apennine and Pre-Apennine hills in the Province of Bologna, on the basis of the elements acquired also by the competent territorial offices, the following is represented. First of all, it should be noted that the banks of the Rhine in various sections, even further downstream than those reported, have localised erosion situations. With regard to the issues arising as a result of the events of February and March 2016, the Council of Ministers has contemplated these areas as part of the decision to recognize the state of emergency of 10 May last requested by the Emilia-Romagna Region. With this resolution 9,200,000 euros were allocated as an extraordinary contribution to the implementation of the first interventions. However, without prejudice to the possibility of specific and localized urgent interventions to protect areas with high levels of hydraulic risk that the commissioner delegate, President of the Region, will be able to evaluate in the preparation of the plan of the interventions, it is to be pointed out that, with regard to both the Rhine and, in a fairly generalized way, the drainage grid of the territories of the Province of Bologna, will be fundamental the interventions of total hydraulic arrangement that in the next few years will be possible in the framework of the planning and financing of the interventions of protection of the ground for the mitigation of the risk, that they see engaged the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea and the Emilia-Romagna Region. This overall planning of soil defense seems the most suitable to ensure that interventions that change current speed and direction and associated solid transport conditions are always well framed and properly verified within the reference basin; this in order to ensure control and, where possible, reduction to compatible levels of hydraulic risk at the pelvis scale. As for, in particular, the morphology and the path of the river Rhine auction in the mountain section from Bocca Nord, on the right bank, in Borgata Molinaccio, on the left bank, in the Municipalities of Castel di Casio and Gaggio Montano, Marano di Gaggio hamlet, it is noted that they have not undergone significant modifications in the last decade and that the indicated erosive phenomena are typical of a natural river dynamics not particularly critical. In fact, the engraved beehive of the watercourse, defined by the banks, is delimited by the presence of shrub and tree vegetation, forests on the right and hydraulic left, limited areas to arable land and stable lawn and few scattered buildings, however sufficiently far from the banks themselves and not directly affected by erosion. In any case, the section has been particularly monitored over time, as it is affected by the construction work of the new state road Porrettana, now finished. This monitoring allowed to determine that the works themselves did not involve significant changes to the route and the river characteristics, which remained almost unchanged over time, except at localised points. In the section there are some ENEL trellises, regularly granted. However, the operator shall be responsible for the possible protection of the trellis if, for hydraulic reasons, the safety conditions of the trellis can be changed. Similarly, with regard to methane pipeline, the resolution of any problems is also the responsibility of the operator. In this respect, on the basis of the information held by the competent body, there is no need, at present, to proceed to widespread operations of safety on the whole section, which could indeed lead to an alteration of the dynamic balance of the auction. Finally, it is evident that the competent office of the Emilia-Romagna Region has confirmed that it will take further inspections in the area, also in agreement with the municipalities concerned, aimed at verifying in detail any localized erosions and evaluating any possible actions. As regards the measures to be taken to contain the phenomenon of gradual erosion, the territorial authorities competent for the area concerned, although bound by the inevitable limits imposed by the economic resources allocated, and therefore called to carefully assess the priorities of intervention, on the basis of risk assessments concerning the entire territory of competence, generally operate with due attention, competence and timeliness.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u27	GAMBARO (AL-A). Mr President, I would like to thank Ms Degani for her prompt reply. My question is dated 13 April 2016 and, therefore, is quite topical. I'm quite satisfied with the answer. I wanted to bring to the attention of the Government the problem of the erosion of the territory and, specifically, of my area, even if the topic concerns many Italian regions. It is important that the authorities monitor the area because we have seen that the Rhine River is at risk of enlargement and could therefore damage the surrounding agricultural land. We know that agriculture is an important economic sector for the Emilia-Romagna Region. You, Madam Undersecretary, have rightly spoken of the methane pipeline. That is also a risk point and it is important that it is monitored in the right way by the Region. It is essential that institutions take action, monitor and monitor these particular points of the territory.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u28	Question 3-02834 follows on the regulation on the control and monitoring of the presence of pollutants in water. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u29	Mr President, with regard to the questions raised by the honourable Member, on the basis of the facts acquired, the following is true. National legislation on the monitoring and control of the presence of pollutants in water has transposed the provisions of existing Community legislation on this subject, namely the Water Framework Directive 2000/60/EC, Directive 2008/105/EC and Directive 2006/118/EC. These Community rules and national transposition rules define the criteria for the design and implementation of monitoring programmes for water bodies, identify the competent authorities for monitoring activities, define minimum requirements for the performance of analysis methods and quality control, establish the list of pollutants in surface and underground water bodies, their quality standards and threshold values and analytical methods. In addition, the National Action Plan for the sustainable use of plant protection products was adopted in January 2014 in implementation of Directive 2009/128/EC. This Directive concerns only plant protection products, while for biocidal products the European Commission is preparing a specific act. The aforementioned National Plan provides for a series of actions, the implementation of which is entrusted in part to the regions and in part to the competent central administrations (Ministers of the environment, agricultural policies and health). With regard to the monitoring activities, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, identified as competent authorities by national legislation, carry out the monitoring in the framework of the collection programmes provided for by Legislative Decree No 152 of 2006, subject to monitoring in the bodies of surface water the priority substances and other substances that do not allow the achievement of good status by the dates set and transmit the results to ISPRA, which processes and evaluates them. It is noted that, where monitoring activities show that the quality standards or threshold values for surface and groundwater respectively are not respected, recovery measures, which are to be part of the so-called "programmes of measures" of the river basin management plans referred to in Directive 2000/60/EC, need to be implemented. In order to assess the effectiveness of the actions provided for in the National Action Plan, some indicators were defined by decree of 15 July 2015 to assess the degree of implementation and effectiveness of the measures envisaged. These indicators are based on monitoring data provided by the regions and compiled annually by ISPRA. ISPRA carries out the National Pesticide Report in water in accordance with the tasks set out in the Plan. The report contains the results of the monitoring of surface and groundwater internal waters, the purpose of which is to detect any effects arising from the use of pesticides, not foreseen during the authorisation phase and not adequately controlled during the use phase. The Institute shall also provide technical and scientific guidelines for the planning and execution of monitoring. As regards the substances to be considered in the monitoring, the water legislation sets out as a general criterion to explore all potential sources of contamination in the territory, which could have an impact on water. In fact, however, only a certain number of pesticides are explicitly regulated. Therefore, in order to have a full picture of possible pesticide contamination, ISPRA is committed to addressing, in particular to providing criteria and lists of priority substances to be included in the monitoring. The product address documents are on the website of the ISPRA Institute. ISPRA has also been committed for years to providing all the information necessary for the implementation of representative monitoring of pesticides, including through the harmonisation of regional activities, thereby providing adequate information to citizens on the state of environmental contamination by pesticides, but also to the relevant authorities for taking, where necessary, risk management decisions. In this respect, however, there are delays, in particular in some regions of South Italy. Also thanks to the coordination action of the Ministry of the Environment and the collaboration of ISPRA with the Regional Environmental Protection Agencies, we are trying to recover these delays. In this regard, I would like to point out the very recent publication in the Official Journal of Law No 132 of 2016 establishing the National Network System for the Protection of the Environment of which ISPRA and the regional agencies and autonomous provinces of Trento and Bolzano are members and which can be really useful for this purpose. With reference to updating the parameters, methodologies and values used for monitoring and monitoring of water, at national level, the rules in force at Community level are consistent. The same Community rules provide for a periodic review and adjustment of parameters and methodologies, where necessary. The Water Framework Directive 2000/60/EC, for example, provides for a review and possible review and integration of the list of priority substances every four years. Italy, in addition to participating in this activity, in accordance with the mechanisms laid down in Legislative Decree No 152 of 2006, ensures its contribution, including through national research institutes, to the Community working tables which prepare technical review and review activities, such as the Working Group on Chemicals, which operates within the framework of the common strategy for the implementation of the Water Framework Directive. In relation to groundwater, Directive 2006/118/EC also provides for a periodic review and integration of the parameters under control. In this respect, the Ministry of the Environment has prepared the proposal for the transposition of Directive ฿/EU, which, inter alia, introduces a new parameter to be monitored. In the transposition measure, the Ministry of the Environment proposed the introduction of threshold values in groundwater for 5 perfluoroalkyl compounds, based on the national spread of this substance in water. The competent authorities, to which the legislation assigns the monitoring and control tasks of bodies of water, therefore have the regulatory and technical tools for the diagnosis of the state of bodies of water, according to the criteria and methods defined by European legislation. With regard to the rules governing the recovery of sludge, it should also be noted that Directive 86/278/EEC in force, almost 30 years after its adoption, appears to have been exceeded, as new chemicals are being used compared to the past. For this reason, some Member States and also some Italian regions have adopted and implemented more restrictive measures with regard to the limit values for heavy metals, as well as some contaminants for which the directive did not provide for limits. There is therefore an uneven application on the national and European territory of the discipline of the recovery of sludges in agriculture, with limits and requirements different from Region to Region. In light of this it is noted that the competent management of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea in the past (2009-2011) has already undertaken activities to update the annexes of the legislative decree transposing the aforementioned directive, which still require a necessary involvement of the other competent administrations. Moreover, with regard to actions to protect the aquatic environment, guidelines for the protection of the aquatic environment and drinking water were established by Ministerial Decree of 10 March 2015. These guidelines provide for 18 possible risk mitigation measures, which can be adopted in relation to different protection objectives and the choice of which is entrusted to the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces. The results of the implementation of these measures in terms of lower environmental impact could be assessed and appreciated already from the 2017 monitoring. However, as far as competence is concerned, the Ministry of the Environment constantly monitors the regulatory impact of sector regulations, also in order to overcome any operational criticalities that might arise and evaluate possible revisions of the discipline.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u32	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I thank the Undersecretary. I am fully satisfied with the very detailed answer, which has touched on many issues, already taken up by my question, which started from two sources of information: the National Pesticide Report of ISPRA, also mentioned by the Undersecretary and, in general, the 2015 ISPRA Report on the use of sewage sludge in agriculture. I believe that there has been a broad response on both points. We have, as has been said, the tools, methods and methodologies to be able to periodically review the substances. The old 1986 legislation, more specifically Directive 278 of that year, clearly seems outdated and we could go to its rapid revision, not only for what has been said (if I have understood the answer, between 2009 and 2011 the competent management of the Ministry of the Environment has already dealt with it), but also through a legislative intervention that we have been evaluating since yesterday: in fact, a draft law was incardinated at my first signature precisely with the aim of revising this old legislation, obviously taking into account, as already indicated, also the regional regulations, which have had to intervene to overcome the criticalities related to the vetusity of the European directive. Let us hope that a more organic revision will come to us from the European Union. I believe that all this is taking place in a situation of grave fear for the health of citizens, as we have also seen in some regions, particularly in the North. We know that on the issue of PFAS there is a very strong criticality, currently identified in Veneto, but we do not know if in other regions we are at the same level of concern. With regard to the aspect of methodology - and therefore not only with regard to the thresholds to be applied to these substances that may be harmful, (I would like to remind you of a recent judicial report involving the Province of Pavia for which we are awaiting the results of the investigation), it seems that the legislation providing for the production of samples by the same clients (so not by external or third parties, as may be the regional agencies or others) has led to facilitate those who, fraudulently, produced wrong data, resulting in pollution. It would seem that this is the case: I always use the conditional, because these judicial investigations, which have even led to arrests, are reported in a very recent news of the press and make us fear for the whole population. In any case, I am very reassured by the attention and response given by the Undersecretary and - I repeat - I am fully satisfied.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u33	Following is the question 3-02236, on the redevelopment of Piazza Risorgimento in Frosinone. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u34	Mr President, Senator Scalia requests the Ministry's notice of the project of the Municipality of Frosinone for the redevelopment of Piazza Risorgimento. I would like to point out that the renovation works of Piazza Risorgimento in Frosinone are part of the recovery plan of the former district house, which saw the start of the administrative process in the early 2000s. Since then, the project has been the subject of several updates which have been authorised under Article 21 of the Code. The latest project update in order of time was approved in April 2011. Since then no starting date has been communicated, which is necessary to start the work, as provided for in the authorization. In May 2015, it reached the competent Superintendence for the Provinces of Rome, Frosinone, Latina, Rieti and Viterbo an anonymous exhibit that denounced the cementification of Piazza Risorgimento in Frosinone, with sinking of the fountain there present of 30-40 cm and the realization around the monument of Vittorio Emanuele II of walls, walls and ladders. Following that statement, the Superintendent instructed the zone official to verify the merits of what was alleged in the statement. In the survey carried out by the architect in charge, it was apparent that works were in fact being carried out to arrange the area different from the project forecasts approved by the Superintendence in April 2011. The Superintendence itself requested urgent clarification from the municipal administration about the work being carried out and at the same time duly informed the Public Prosecutor of the Republic, the municipal police command, the Carabinieri command of Frosinone and the Lazio Region for any autonomous investigations. The civic administration, in response to the request for clarification, pointed out, in July 2015, that - I quote - works were being carried out to arrange the area identifiable as Piazza Risorgimento, consisting in the paving of pedestrian spaces in accordance with the project authorized by the Superintendence, postponing to subsequent intervention for justified reasons of cost, the analogous paving of the areas destined for the journey of the vehicles, that will be maintained in asphalt. In addition, all measures suitable for overcoming architectural barriers have been included in the intervention in accordance with the current legal provisions. The above obligations, which represent the necessary development in the execution phase of the recalled project approved by the Superintendence (...) have not been the subject of formalization for mere disguido... - I repeat and emphasize: for mere disguido - "With separate plico the appropriate project for the follow-up of competence" is forwarded. End of quote. Following further checks, the Superintendent, in August following, had the suspension of the works and on the following 23 November 2015 ordered the restoration of the condition of the square prior to the unauthorized works due to the fact that the new interventions had a negative impact on the historicalized and protected context. By the same provision it also imposed the payment of a pecuniary penalty, pursuant to Article 37, paragraph 2 of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 380 of 2001 (the single text of the laws and regulations in the field of construction) for the omitted request for authorization pursuant to Article 21 of the code of cultural goods for the works realized (with marked alteration of the project then approved). The Municipality appealed against the order for the restoration of the superintendence and the question is still pending before the TAR Lazio - detached section of Latina. Allow me here to stress, precisely from the succession of events, that it is the civic administration that has omitted, in the authorized and then executive phase of the public work, the necessary intercourse with this Ministry, preventing the Superintendence to carry out those functions of high surveillance to which it is responsible and that they would have prevented what happened. In addition, variants of public works of interest to cultural heritage, as well as projects, must be subject in advance to the evaluation of the Superintendence. Otherwise, at the end or almost, the works improperly carried out are subject in any case to the penalties provided for by the Code. In essence, all the processes carried out do not appear justified by the shared need to break down the architectural barriers. Piazza Risorgimento, in the ante opera configuration, had in fact a public area in charge of the stop/meeting, cut in two by the road destined to the vehicular traffic that determines two different pedestrian areas, one downstream where there is a fountain and one upstream with the monument to Vittorio Emanuele II. The more downstream area where the fountain and several trees insisted was originally characterized by a slight difference in altitude. The work in question artificially leveled the ground and raised the altitude of footsteps around the fountain, determining the sinking of the fountain in addition to the amplification of accessibility problems for the disabled, to which it has been remedied with the realization of two long ramps inclined by reinforced concrete walls. In this case, it is considered that accessibility problems could be solved more easily, and I must say with less emphasis, maintaining the original treading quotas. In essence, architectural barriers have been created with the increase in quotas and then eliminated. In the upstream area where the monument is located and where the slope becomes more accentuated, the works carried out have led to a radical change of the planned compositional scheme and management of the spaces destined for the rest and the areas left green. It is precisely this radical change in the square that had to be authorized in advance. I conclude by pointing out that the Municipality of Frosinone, recently, has transmitted to the Superintendence some new projects to restore to pristine of the Piazza Risorgimento and the Superintendence has expressed itself in principle favorable to one of the proposals and is waiting to receive - hopefully all in a short time - a project of greater detail that combines the restoration of the original quotas with the plans of requalification already approved in April 2011.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u37	SCALIA (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for his reply. I do not have to defend the Municipality of Frosinone, but the reason for my question - and I quote myself - is in relation to an opinion of the Superintendence that suspends the work of the Municipality of Frosinone to settle that square because the proposed accommodation seems excessively dependent on the accessibility requirements for the disabled. It is well known the legislation that requires to adapt the projects to the elimination of architectural barriers and I understand from the card of the Municipality that then transmitted to me that the only design hypothesis that is shared by the Superintendence is the restoration of the situation quo ante that the Municipality considers not practicable. If possible I would invite further study, because precisely in the judgment to which you referred there was a precautionary phase and the Council of State invited the TAR to enter into the substance quickly and to ascertain whether there is the cultural interest of that square, because the good spoken of is a fountain of the Cassa del Mezzogiorno less than seventy years old, compared to which there is no evidence that there has been a verification of the cultural interest by the Ministry and by the Superintendence, as it should have been for real estate under the age of seventy years. In fact, the Council of State also notes on this point that there is no such evidence and, therefore, invites the TAR to ascertain and deepen whether there is the cultural interest of that good, because if it is not there, the intervention of the Superintendence would not have had to. It is the urbanization work that was required to do the private. Here there has been - as the Undersecretary has remembered - a plan of recovery of private initiative that has been realized for the part of private interest, but it is not organized the work of urbanization and the settlement of the square, to which the Municipality is providing with the surety policy that has excused in damage to the private one. So that floor has already been realized, the square has already been turned upside down and the property has already been built. Now we have to reset the square and make it passable, because for several years it has been unworkable. Therefore, the urgency is to allow accommodation that is consistent with the legislation that requires the removal of architectural barriers. If this disturbs the aesthetic sense of the Superintendence, let us ascertain whether the Superintendence has a duty of protection on that property and whether it has been verified and declared the cultural interest of the good itself, because it is not ex lege, having that property less than seventy years.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u38	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u39	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-666.ana.u40	The Senate will meet again at 4.30 p.m. on Tuesday 26 July, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.15 p.m.
