ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 14 January.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u4	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 15.06).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on the draft Constitutional Act No 1429-D, which was first approved by the Senate, as first amended by the Chamber of Deputies, which was first amended by the Senate and approved without amendment by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that, in accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure, in the second resolution, the draft constitutional law, after the general discussion, will be submitted only to the final vote for approval as a whole, subject to explanations of vote. I note that, pursuant to Article 138 (1) of the Constitution, in the second resolution, the constitutional bill is approved if in the final vote it obtains the favorable vote of the absolute majority of the members of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u11	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, as I imagine you will know (we will soon be officially informed), not all the writings in the Commission have been able to speak: there are still a limited number of members missing. Mr President, I have asked to speak now - thank you for giving me the floor - before you gave the floor to the President of the 1st Commission to report on the progress of the work to make it clear to the House that, if there were a shift of even a few hours from the beginning of the debate in this House, we could end the debate in the Commission and continue our work in a normal way since we are not approving a measure recently, but a very profound reform of the Constitution. I believe that putting an end to the work in the Commission, where only one of the two votes for reform would take place, would in no way delay approval and would allow compliance with the procedures laid down in the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and also common sense. I therefore submit my proposal to my colleagues and, first of all, to the majority, as well as to you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u12	Senator Malan, as you know, the Conference of Leaders has set the start of work at 3 p.m. In the debate on the timetable, the inclusion of the clause 'where concluded in the Commission' was also envisaged. The inclusion has not been approved. So, that's the situation. If there are other requests from the whole majority, they will be re-evaluated. This is - I repeat - the situation: there is a vote in the House which has already taken note of this decision.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u15	GIARRUSSO (M5S). President, I asked first to speak, since I entered. PRESIDENT. - The debate is On the requests for intervention, I follow the order indicated to me by the Secretary Senators. Senator Barani's surgery has been reported to me. You'll speak soon after, Senator Giarrusso. Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, the House will excuse me if I take only one minute to remind you that today is the 16th anniversary of the civil death of Bettino Craxi, who was President of the Council and a great statesman who has left a big mark in the history of reforms, which he strongly wanted. Today coincides precisely with the beginning of the debate in this branch of Parliament on the completion of what had been its intuition many years ago, already in the 1980s. I conclude by recalling that today is also the 25th anniversary of the disappearance of another colleague, Senator Dino Viola, who has been in this branch of Parliament. We are missing Senators, his family is missing, but Roma fans are missing in particular, and that is why I wanted to remind you in this House of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u18	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, it is certainly not a majority vote that can compress democracy, because in this case we are talking about constitutional reforms. We have signed up to speak, but the Group's parent and other colleagues have not even been able to speak in the Commission, and that is a very serious fact. We are not talking about any draft law, but about the most important constitutional reform since the beginning of the Republic, which cannot be cleared as a simple matter of calendar, Mr President, because that is not the case. I therefore urge you, on behalf of the M5S Group, to allow everyone to intervene in the Commission's headquarters to ensure the functioning of the Senate. I shall conclude, Mr President, just to say, since Senator Barani remembered some events, which everyone remembers his heroes. Ours are called Rocco Chinnici and Paolo Borsellino, who today would have turned their years. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u21	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, you have already put this matter before the objections and requests that we have already made in the Commission, asking Mr Finocchiaro to come to the House, as has happened many other times for other draft laws (even if it was not explicitly provided for the term 'where it is concluded in the Commission') when the Presidents of the Commission or the rapporteurs have come to ask for more time to complete the examination of a measure; moreover, the examination is not only the vote, but also the debate, especially in a case like this. You again raised the matter by saying that there was a decision by the Heads of Groups, then ratified by a vote by the House. However, Mr President, we cannot fail to point out one issue in relation to the haste with which we arrived again last week (not even twenty-four hours after the vote in the House) to want immediately to schedule the draft constitutional law to arrive immediately at the conclusion of the second reading in accordance with the Senate. Frankly, we have already made clear what we think of this haste: we think it is an absolutely serious fact. I would like to add, Mr President (maybe you know this better than I do), that after the discussions in the Senate Chamber on the date of the incardination and the vote on the bill, the majority in the House of Members even tried to begin the timetable for the last reading in March, even before the final vote scheduled for 13 April, claiming that they wanted to start discussing it. Frankly, this is a way of proceeding which is in no way consistent - I repeat - with the spirit and letter of Article 138 of the Constitution. However, Mr President, something even more serious is happening on this measure, and no one can hide behind a finger, because you have decided that tomorrow at 17 o'clock, however, the world will fall, the explanations of vote will begin. This is not even quota but much more, Mr President. Here we are in front of what in the jargon is called a trap. This time there are no amendments to be cut, but we have to cut off the word and the debate. So, Mr President, it has happened and it is happening - indeed! - once again a forced force, on the occasion of the last passage of the bill here in the Senate! Today we have only the stage of the debate. Or do you think - but you have to say it: you have to assume the responsibility to say it - that the three months of reflection that the Constitution provides are all stupid and that Article 138 of the Constitution, as it was written, has no meaning for you, why reflect and think, when faced with the change of the Constitution is a useless thing, since you have to rush? Perhaps something is happening and so I realize that perhaps you need to rush. In fact, you are deeply questioning that spirit, partly because there was absolutely no need, except for the urgency of the renewal of the Commissions, which you had to do, but first you had to secure the votes on constitutional reform. You understand that this will remain in history: history does not erase anything and everyone will take responsibility for it, not only political, but also personal and ethical. We are not talking about different opinions, which we can discuss, but we are changing the pact that should unite us all, namely the Constitution and the Republican Pact. There are injuries to procedures, even when there is no need, because we had every chance of having a serious debate, and perhaps at that point, President Finocchiaro could have been the rapporteur, given that there would have been sufficient time to hold the debate. This is the last time the Senate has the opportunity to express itself and speak to the citizens and try to explain. In fact, we are faced with another force, namely a President of the Council who has the right to transform a referendum, which the Constitution clearly defines as an opposition referendum - which should be an instrument in the hands of those who oppose it - in a referendum on his person, and therefore of a plebiscite nature. Megalomania is a lot, but it is serious what is produced in the misuse of the referendum itself. Here, Mr President, at last everything is counted: you will take the floor at 5 p.m. tomorrow and many of our colleagues will not be able to speak and say, for the last time, as elected representatives, in front of their citizens, what they think of this reform, because it will remain only an instrument that will allow us to take or leave, to say yes or no. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-AEcT Groups]] . ).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u22	We greet the group of boys of the Ethical Hotel of Asti, who is following our works and who I had the happiness to meet this morning. [[Live and prolonged applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u25	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Mr President, I think it is appropriate for this House to remember at this moment that, in these days, a small Italian has been slaughtered by the fury of a qaedist organization in Burkina Faso. I am referring to the nine-year-old Michel Santomenna, of Lucan origins, who perhaps deserves a minute's silence on the part of the House, or at least the form he will choose for this commemoration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u26	The Presidency supports your request and has one minute of recollection and silence in memory of the child killed. [[The President stands up and with him the whole Assembly, who observes a minute's silence]] I express our feeling of solidarity with the family members who have suffered this serious loss. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u27	The President of the First Permanent Commission, Senator Finocchiaro, may speak to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft constitutional law, which is now before the Assembly, concerning the reform of Part II of the Constitution, was approved at first reading by the Senate on 8 August 2014 and at first reading by the House of Deputies on 10 March 2015. Since the text had been amended at several points during the first reading examination at the other branch of Parliament, the Senate carried out a second reading, again in the context of the first resolution, and in turn made further amendments. After the second reading of the Senate, concluded on October 13, 2015, the Chamber of Deputies again examined the constitutional bill, in this case approving it - on January 11 last - in the identical text transmitted by the Senate. The outcome of the double resolution in accordance with the Constitution has therefore reached the stage of the second resolution, as provided for in Article 138 of the Constitution, which - as is well known - regulates the constitutional revision procedure. On 12 January the draft Constitutional Law was then assigned to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which, on that same date, decided by a majority to place the measure on the agenda and to begin its examination from the next sitting. The Conference of Leaders, on 13 January, took the decision to include the draft Constitutional Review Act in the timetable for work since today's session of the Assembly. I have therefore tried to organise the debate in the Commission, in order to ensure that the debate could take place in a successful manner, so as to allow a positive conclusion to be made of the examination by conferring the mandate on the rapporteur. The constitutional bill was therefore incardinated into the Commission on 14 January. The general debate began in yesterday's afternoon sitting, on Monday 18 January, and continued in yesterday's afternoon and night sessions (sittings, however - it should be remembered - have not been fully exploited by colleagues for their speeches and therefore both stopped early) and in today's sitting, convened at 9 a.m. and concluded a few minutes ago. There were 45 senators in the debate. I would remind you that during the first reading, 68 senators took part in the general discussion in the Commission and 34 senators at second reading, today 45. However, at the very beginning of the sitting of the Assembly, there were still 15 members to speak. I have therefore been unable to take note of the fact that it is not possible to conclude the examination in a positive way, despite all efforts made to ensure that there is a greater availability of time for discussion in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u29	In relation to President Finocchiaro's report, the draft law No 1429-D, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, will be discussed without report. Requests for general discussion were received from 93 senators. The Presidency will ensure that the deadlines laid down in the Rules of Procedure are strictly respected. The order of the members is posted on the bulletin board. The senator who is not present in this Chamber will be deemed to have given up unless he has agreed with other senators and communicated it to the Presidency in good time. As you know, the sitting doesn't have a closing time.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u30	Mr President, having to deal with a subject such as constitutional matter, which I cannot separate from electoral matters, because they represent a particularly dangerous unicum, and having recognized in these two reforms of the pedestal characteristics (in the sense that they are written with my feet), I believe that the tone of my speech must also be of a didactic nature and bring everything back to certain concepts that have led our country to a real risk to democracy. I therefore start from the electoral subject, with considerations regarding the same that remind us all that electoral systems are those that translate votes, that is, preferences, into polling stations. What are the characteristics of the various systems? Characteristics of proportionality, that is, there is an exact coincidence between the votes cast and the seats assigned, which have the guarantee of maximum democracy and representativeness, and characteristics peculiar to the majority systems, that is those that tend to limit or exclude the presence of the minority, through the single or plurinomial colleges; what is certain is that the latter have the characteristic of giving the governability and stability of government, but are incomplete on the side of representativeness and democracy. To balance these four requirements mixed systems have been invented: the majoritarians such as the Mattarellum, which awarded 75% of the votes on the basis of single-member colleges, corrected with 25% proportional, and the Porcellum, which had a proportional system with a majority prize and barricades as bonus criteria. What doesn't work in this electoral law? It's not a mixed system. A particular form of the single system has been used, compared to a plurinomial system, using the ballot and, therefore, creating not a mixed system but a kind of mad mayonnaise. Everyone must recognize that there is no perfect electoral system; it proves that, over the course of all these years, in the face of a bicameral equal system that we have so far, with no electoral law the same majority would have been determined at Chamber and Senate level. It happened with the Mattarellum in 1996, it happened in 2006 with the Porcellum and it happened again this time; and all, once again, to bring the instability of government back to a responsibility of the so-called Porcellum law. It is good to remind everyone that no electoral system in the Western world would produce the same majority at the House and Senate level. It is a physiological result and is not so much attributable to the fact that the Senate also expresses confidence, but because, having two different electorates (for the House of Eighteen vote people who are twenty-five years old and over while for the Senate twenty-five years old and beyond vote for people who have turned 40), it is evident that, with a variation of the electorate active and passive, the same result cannot be allowed. In addition to trying to simulate the result of 2013, we tried to apply the various systems to see what would happen to the Chamber of Deputies alone. Curious results have emerged, even paradoxical: if we had voted in 2013 with the Mattarellum, a system that was quite opposed by the center-right and loved by the center-left, it would have won the Berlusconi elections and the center-right; if we had voted with the Spanish system, loved by the center-right and instead opposed by the center-left, it would have won the left and with the Greek system they would have even won the pentastellates with more than 250 votes. These numbers tell us that the possible majority would have been from 230 to 250 and therefore absolutely not able to produce a majority of government even at the level of the Chamber of Deputies. So there is not only a system and a problem of electoral laws and bicameralism, there is the problem that all these systems, created by bipolar realities, have been implemented and applied today to a reality that is being realized tripolar (and it is not said that the number of political formations can not even increase). Let us retrace the story of how we have come here, partly because I have been asked to do so today in the Commission. I have always had a special appreciation for the method of the so-called Mattarellum, that is, the electoral system approved in 1993, but we must also be not hypocrites and recognize how things really went. I have said this in the past and I repeat: as far as I am concerned, I would never have changed the electoral system of 1993. It was an imperfect system, precisely because when we adopt a law, before using it we find the deception, and that someone had put it as an element of detour, in order to switch from the single-name system to proportional, not the number of votes obtained by the winner, but those obtained by the second-ranked one made the larger parties over-represented also in the proportional part, as well as the system of owl lists, for which one connected to a ghost list, made Parliament no longer have the guarantee of the plenum, which was done two legislative acts ago. Faced with this, however, it would have been enough to correct the Mattarellum. But in 2005, just as at this moment we are moving on to carry out the third and fourth votes of the constitutional reform (and for the then UDC I asked myself, compared to the critical analyses of the New Right Center, why they did not do the same this time) came the blackmail of Fini, Casini and Follini, who said that if we had not done a reform in a proportional sense they would not have voted on the Constitution. That's why I had to change an electoral law that I would never, otherwise, change. I propose a proportional system that, above a certain threshold, determined the triggering of a majority prize and I think that was absolutely reasonable. Too bad that then there was no party secretary of the Party of the Nation, then there were really secretaries of parties that mattered something and everyone wanted a piece of that electoral law. The good Berlusconi asked that there was no minimum threshold above which to trigger the majority prize, which from a constitutional point of view is unsustainable, but then the two sides that faced each other arrived, even the one that lost, close to fifty percent, i.e. they won and lost with 49.5 compared to 50.05 percent, so the majority prize never exceeded 5 percent and was therefore absolutely reasonable. The good Fini instead wanted the lists blocked. There is something that does not come back: the whole world goes in a certain direction and instead we went in scattered order. What is certain is that bad, bad, good or not good preferences have behavior, within the country that risk being evidence of distorting effects. In the Lombardy Region, during the last elections, the population expressed 14% of preferences. In Naples, the expression of preferences in the municipal elections reaches 96 percent. That there is all this love only in Naples to express the preference and that there is not in Milan leads me to think that fears over what Fini claimed could also be real. I accepted that request not only for blackmail but also because there was the promise from all the others that the country would then be divided, not in the 27 districts of today and then, but in at least 200, so that the lists were two or three people, and therefore absolutely identifiable by the population. Then he also placed his Presidency of the Republic, claiming that for the election on a regional basis, constitutionally planned for the Senate, the majority prize should also be awarded at regional level. Even the smaller parties came forward - without naming names - and someone came to question two percent of the barrier, saying that even if they had gone under, the first of the losers would still enter Parliament. Here, in front of all these requests I came out with the definition of the famous law "porcata." I said "porcata" then because I had not yet seen what you approved then, because otherwise I would never have called it "porcata." [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Campanella]] : It is a lily with respect to the law that you approved. Yet, if the porcellum approved in 2005 was so indisputable, someone wants to unravel the hypocrisy that, even though a left-wing government, a right-wing government, a technical government and one of enlarged majorities, no one has changed that law? To this no one has yet given an answer, because everyone criticizes him, but party secretaries would never have changed the Porcellum if the Constitutional Court's ruling had not arrived. I call it a spontaneous decision of the Constitutional Court because it has always surprised me that the Constitutional Court had already dealt with the issue twice, in the course of the same repealing referendums, and, although it had criticized certain passages of the law, it had always concluded that it is up to Parliament to legislate on electoral matters. This time, perhaps spontaneously urged by President Napolitano, the constitutional judges entered into the matter and went to censor two passages of the Porcellum; let's see which. First of all, the unreasonableness of the majority prize: they are absolutely right, but the historical period is a different thing. Then, the excessive length of the lists: absolutely in agreement; but if the electoral colleges had been revised, the problem would not have arisen. I accept the censure on the unreasonableness of the majority prize and also on the blocked lists, but I wonder how the Constitutional Court's ruling could have introduced, by using secondary and even regulatory legislation, one or more preferences. This is something I still cannot frankly explain. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is clear that good Renzi and Minister Boschi were looking forward to having the ball raised by the Constitutional Court to change the electoral law. Everyone knew the good parts and the bad parts of Porcellum: too bad they went to correct the good parts and kept the bad ones. Let's see what the modification consists of. The fake concept has been introduced that you have to reach 40% to trigger the majority prize. How beautiful, we have made the prize reasonable: a pity that already from 40 to 55 percent is not that reasonable. The problem is that the prize no longer goes to the coalition but to the individual party, and, knowing that no one will take 40% as a single political force, it is clear that everything will settle down through the famous ballot. By the way, do you know where the term "balleting" comes from? From the Florentine "ballotta", synonymous with chestnut. Randomly there is a tower in Florence - all the evils come from Tuscany in this period! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senator Fattori) -]] where the priors of the arts met to make decisions and put the chestnuts inside bags; then counted the number of the chestnuts. Even this time they gave us a chestnut on the head with this ballot! I say this because the balloting is not a thing so much to be done like this. In France, those who exceed the 50% threshold get seats if they have achieved at least 25% of the votes of those entitled. On the other hand, those who go to the ballot must have achieved at least 12.5 percent of the votes of those entitled. In Italy the first two go to the ballot, even if it is a party of majority or relative minority, without a minimum threshold. Let me give an example by referring to the elections that took place in the Emilia-Romagna Region in 2014: participants in the vote of 37.71 percent (I think the votes were 34 percent); the winner won with 49.1 percent of the votes. If we round up to 50 percent (we also increase the number of votes obtained) and divide by two the percentage of 37-34 percent we see that the winner won with 17-18 percent of the votes of those entitled. The same situation can also be seen at national level where, if there is a fragmentation of the individual parties that appear autonomously, a party that gets 20% of the votes would see 340 seats allocated to the House instead of 126, thus practically tripling the electoral result. This is frankly hallucinating, but you did it. It is clear that the path of electoral law has not yet been completed. We are the only country with electoral measures to have a delayed outbreak and in fact the electoral law will enter into force in July 2016. Here, however, there is the problem of the dangerous crossroads with constitutional reform. If the constitutional reform were to receive - which I do not hope - the necessary votes in Parliament and then be confirmed in the referendum, in the next two months there would be the intervention of the Constitutional Court which, at the request of 25% of the members of the Chamber of Deputies or 30% of the members of the Senate, will have to assess the electoral law. If the parameters used by the Constitutional Court were to be the same as those used in the evaluation of the so-called Porcellum, I remind you that this electoral law has even more vices than the Porcellum. However, it makes me think that, after countless empty votes, it was possible, all of a sudden, to appoint three judges of the Constitutional Court, who may look more lovingly at Italicum and the measure will thus be able to pass the examination of the Constitutional Court. However, I ask myself the following question. If italicum were to be rejected by the Constitutional Court, we would find ourselves in a basically monocameral system with a proportional electoral system. On the contrary, if constitutional reform were to fail, the electoral law would not be subject to the scrutiny of the Constitutional Court and we would thus be in an equal bicameral system with an ultra-major electoral system in the House and absolutely proportional to the Senate. Looks to me like you guys really opened Pandora's box. Nor has the cross-section of the content of the two measures been studied here. We have already talked about this on the previous occasion, but I would like to remind you of the matter once again, so that it will remain in the proceedings of the work that led to the creation of this monster. In fact, the territorial autonomy has been abolished from the regions, depriving them of legislative power and abolishing the financial autonomy of local authorities, which no longer decide anything and can only decide whether to do or not to do on the basis of what is given to them and since they have become the collectors on behalf of the State. Let us think of the experience of the so-called Delrio law, which in fact provided for the abolition of the Provinces, which, on the other hand, still exist and cost while not really serving anything anymore. Now let's make this measure constitutional. To the fury of beating the head, even the donkey sometimes moves; you do not, go straight ahead. You've touched the Senate, good. You've reduced the number of senators. That's great. But why bring to a hundred senators and not reduce the number of House representatives by a third? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The Senate, despite what anyone who wants to see what isn't there, is a Senate made up of regional councillors who elect from among themselves. Don't tell me the dance that this happens in accordance with the popular will, because if that electoral law is not transposed by the individual regions, the regional councils will choose the senators between the regional councillors and the mayors. We don't make fun of people anymore, because that's the way it is. As it is designed, the Senate is born with a certain political plaque. The Senate will have, as its sole function, an interditive power with respect to the reform of the Constitution; except that the expression of the opinion, the only thing that can do is that, or decide that the Constitution can be modified: therefore, there is only a left majority in the House and, of course, at the level of the Senate. But having not changed the number of Members creates a huge problem from the point of view of the weights and counterweights of the system. In fact, we have shown that a minority party of 20% can obtain a majority of MEPs, with the mockery of hearing that preferences have been reintroduced. But what preferences have been reinstated? In that Parliament, the only ones who will be elected with preference (and perhaps some will) will be the 240 of the majority, that is, the party that won the ballot. Everyone else will only catch and fish from the 100 blocked capillaries. However, the elected with the preferences are not even 240: 100 are in fact the leaders of the majority party and 240 will have a true leader who will draw from there his preferences; well, they have also been able to insert the prediction that every candidate can run for 10 different colleges, so he, in turn, will decide in which college to be elected, and there is not even written that he must choose where he has less preferences, getting elected there. For example, Mr Candiani has received 30,000 preferences and Mr Arrigoni has received 1,000 of them; but if I decide to be elected to the college of Candiani as the leader, he, with 30,000 preferences, stays at home and Arrigoni, with 1,000 preferences, is elected. [[Applause from Senator Castaldi.]] Therefore, we have a party secretary who chooses Members and can blackmail them with the instrument of trust. He will therefore have the President of the Council, the President of the House and probably also the President of the Senate. But the most serious aspect concerns the guarantee bodies, which are elected in a single chamber and Senate: not changing the number of members of the Chamber, the 100 members of the Senate are absolutely and completely irrelevant. Therefore, the President of the Republic, who should be the exponent of the highest third-party, will also be a President of the Republic of... [[Brusio.]] Senator Di Maggio, if you're okay, I can talk too. You have concealed the desire not to have a third party, because you have introduced the principle that the President must be elected by two thirds of the votes. By the way, this could take several years before having a President of the Republic, because no one guarantees that two thirds will be achieved. In addition, you referred not to the number of members of this House but to the number of voters. Therefore, on the one hand there is the risk of not electing the President and, on the other hand, there is the risk that, if in a majority 220 vote Candiani and 175 vote Arrigoni, the good Candiani becomes President of the Republic. It would be a fortune compared to many of the past, dear friend Candiani. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni.]] These questions should suggest that the President of the Republic is not only a third party body (or should be so), but he is also the person who appoints the five judges of the Constitutional Court. So five will be the majority. Of the five elected by Parliament, four will go to the majority and one to the opposition. Therefore, we start with nine out of 15 judges already in charge of the majority; the same will happen with the CSM, with the Authorities and with the guarantee bodies. When a person decides everything, it's called "one person in charge." [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] A regime, whether it likes it or not, is. This is not just about merit, Mr President, but also about the method used to achieve all this. We are faced with a real scam, which began with electoral law. Let us remember in fact that the electoral law was incarnate to the Senate and I had never seen a body that decided to deprive itself of the examination of a law to send it to the other side, and this happened because obviously the numbers in the Commission were not there. They send it back to us, it remains parked from March to November without anyone naming it, after which it is brought on December 20, at 7.25 in the morning, after the examination of the law of stability. It's embarrassing! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Not enough, what do you do? There is no rapporteur, for a change. Then, in the midst of all the other amendments, an amendment is tabled to Mr Stefano Esposito (who has dealt with transport but never with electoral matters) in which some sort of agenda is made with a premissive amendment, so that all the others cannot be accepted. But then you ask for trust, so you did it in the House, so what would have changed? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Extra scam, less scam! While in other countries the electoral matter is of a constitutional or paraconstitutional nature, therefore it must be voted with a majority of two thirds, with a reinforced quorum; here instead we take it home with the scam and with three votes of trust in the House. But feeling a little worm every now and then? You should have this sense of pride, and I'm sorry about the worms. [[Applause from LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and Senators Mussini and Scibona]] Let's move on to constitutional matter. It is a good start in the Commission by pretending to do a real test (and I must admit that I was a real jerk who believed in it and also contributed to it) and when there are colleagues in the majority who do not think exactly like the President, what is done? You send them away, you send them to "snap the earth." Look, replacing the senators in the Commission in the course of a matter such as the constitutional one is indeed an attack, a coup d'état, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] But that was only the good morning compared to what happened after; let us remember what happened in the next steps. We are going to this House again without a rapporteur, just to change, since - as has been said in the Commission today - we are only dealing with electoral matters. We are going, but after Senator Esposito's amendment we return again with the trick of the so-called owl amendment: this time we give Senator Cociancich an amendment that actually causes everyone else to fall or make it inadmissible. We arrive at the last passage of this telenovela, and we are truly ridiculous on this occasion. The whole thing was born a week ago when, the day before the three months provided for in the Constitution were still due, the President of the Commission tells us that we have to schedule for the next day in the Commission, since there would be a conference of group leaders the next day at 9 a.m. that would have scheduled the measure in this House. Here there is telepathy or the reading of thought, because the next day President Zanda comes to tell us that, since the measure is in advanced state of examination in the Commission (but in reality it had not even begun, nor could it have been started because the three months had not yet expired), it has to be scheduled. Then comes the President of the New Right Centre to tell us: "But we also want a closing time." That's how the guillotine goes! No, guys, this isn't gonna work, so it can't be done. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Also because everything really happened with the bad faith by so many people (and I will remember very well how they acted on this occasion) and with blackmail: having moved in such shameless way the renewal of the Commissions to the day after the vote on the reforms is something that really sucks. Just as it sucks to have postponed the reshuffle of government. But what have you proposed to a hundred people to do the President of the Commission? Fifty to be Undersecretary? Eleven to be a minister? That's really unworthy. I've seen cow markets, but I haven't. Woodcock, if you're there, beat it! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u33	MICHELONI (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on a technical point. A few years ago we used to find on the bulletin board the duration of the interventions. There is no such indication today. Then I'd like to know how we can adjust. You said that we are more than 90 members; if this is the duration of the speeches, we can settle down. There's no closing time. Can we get the sandwiches at 2:00 or midnight? I would like, if possible, to have a minimum of information so that we can settle, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u34	You know that there is no quota of time and that there is no closing time for today's sitting. So we will proceed with the speeches, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the requests. They can last as long as is required; we certainly cannot choke the debate. Senator Di Maggio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u35	Mr President, I would especially like to thank Mr Calderoli and apologise for the accident he was talking about. I should like to thank him for making the ritual remarks that should be repeated and repeated in this House. I believe that it is not worth it, because there is no more deaf than those who do not want to hear. I therefore believe that it is of little use to try to remember what are the anomalies of this constitutional reform. Instead, I want to imagine what the path of those who fought in the Senate against this reform will be: to start tomorrow's referendum campaign. This referendum campaign, in my opinion, must serve to tell a story, which is perhaps the most important story of this period, a strangely forgotten story. In the Commission, during the debate I took part in this morning, a question has often been asked: what is the ratio of such a gangstered measure? It would be very easy for me to throw it away in rhetoric and say that, if a President of the Council appoints as the head of the legislative office the commander of the Florence vigilantes, I do not think that we can imagine a better constitutional reform than we have received. [[Applause from the CoR and LN-Aut groups]] It's as if Tito Di Maggio was told: Tomorrow you go be a neurosurgeon to the "Gemelli" and start operating. I think monsters would come out, as is the case with this constitutional reform. So what's the story we have to tell? The story we have to tell us is taught by the President-in-Office of the Council, who is trying at this time to turn the table upside down, saying that in the end this is not a referendum on constitutional reform, but a referendum on Renzi. Let's tell the story of Renzi, since he began his mandate: secretary of the party, then appointed President of the Council. When was he appointed President of the Council? I like to tell this story for what will then be the final ratio that I will see to prove, so for conclusive facts. He is appointed President of the Council, strangely, a few weeks before the expiry of the time limits in which all the heads of state bodies must be renamed; in those decisions, the President of the Council inserts all his men. From then on, the period of propaganda begins: tax cuts, spending cuts, reforms, reforms and reforms. I would like to remind Parliament of the situation in the country at that time; perhaps it was the moment of the deepest crisis. So the country's primary needs were occupation and economic crisis. But strangely, the President-in-Office tells us that the priorities are the reform of the electoral law and constitutional reform. I believe that this would be enough to explain what is behind such a strategy, but something unusual already happens in this. We are the only country in the world where a constitutional reform, instead of starting from the Houses of Parliament, starts from the Government. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi]] It's the only case in the world. Other facts happen. In the European elections Renzi and the PD win with over 40%. We are delirious with omnipotence. I have already said this in this Chamber: in the first presentation that the President of the Council had to make here in the Chamber, when he came for the first vote of confidence, I pointed out that, in my opinion, he was suffering from a narcissistic personality disorder. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Having said that, I thought that at a time like that our country needed everything but a disturbed President of the Council. But it didn't add up. Propaganda was not followed by events: we sell blue cars; three or four were sold. Let's do the spending review: the commissioners who did it were kicked out. Maybe someone who's still a little wise in this country has started making observations. I quote one at random: his name was Ferruccio De Bortoli, he was the director of the "Corriere della Sera" and began to become indifferent. You can't have the FIAT paper shooting at you, so you're preparing the jobs act. Who needs it? 95% of businesses and Italians who do not know how to maintain current employment levels? No, it's for all the multinationals that have to recycle their personnel, and they do their own interests and profits on that staff. [[Applause from Senators Cappelletti and Simeoni]] But it is not only Ferruccio De Bortoli, who today writes for a newspaper of the Canton of Ticino; it is only the beginning: today the director of the Republic is jumping; the director of the "Print" is changed. I mean, if you start thinking in this country that the President of the Council is telling you about panzane, you're starting to be no longer useful to the system. You get to another step: with the money of the Italian taxpayers you heal the Unity that, by chance, today, when you have to discuss the constitutional reforms of the country, headlines: "Never so low." What are we talking about? What happens in the parliamentary classrooms? No, the price of oil and Giuseppe Garibaldi. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] That's it? No, we get to RAI reform. We reform RAI; we hunt all those who are not related to Renzi thought and replace them with the followers. Shut up all opposition? No, shut up all the free voices. Is there anything else to add? Of course, but Mr Calderoli mentioned this and also very detailed. Mr President, the parliamentary process of this constitutional reform calls for revenge, especially for what you have allowed to be done in this House. I would also like to remind you that my appeal to your Presidency lies in which I asked you why the two members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had been kicked out. I haven't got an answer yet. These are the dangerous things that have happened in this House. A law of stability has been made of which no one says that for the first time in a Western country reforms are made with 34 billion totally in debt. This was done by right-wing and left-wing governments, but our country is strong and can react to this. However, if constitutional reform is destroyed and parliamentary rules are violated, there is a precedent that surely gives thought to the proper future functioning of our country's democratic system. Why can the parliamentary process work in this way? I, with some enthusiasm from my colleagues in the Democratic Party, have supported in this House - and I continue to support it all the more so today - that the Members of the majority are being blackmailed. [[Applause from Senator Simeoni]] I therefore find it paradoxical that this House should deal with the vote of exchange, when, through the laws that are passed by this House, we give the country the most rotten example of a system of corruption. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bruni.]] What is the blackmail we have suggested? Subtract yourself, even for a concept of form, of aesthetics. Make the appointments of the Commissions, do the reshuffle of the Government, approve the bill on civil unions before the constitutional reform; otherwise it is given to think that you continue to do the commodity of what must be the architrave of the rules of our country system. Is that all? No, there's the appointment of constitutional judges. It took thirty sessions; it was necessary to look for the right man for the right place, those who will then have to evaluate the constitutionality of electoral reform and constitutional reform; then there were bad interests in the banking world. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] There is something disturbing, especially in these days, when the name of such a Carrai circulates, which should fill a role even in the security services. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Bruni and Rizzotti]] These are all facts, put behind each other, and I think they're conclusive. In the previous debate at first reading I had used an argument that had very intrigued Senator Gotor, remembering that the constitutional reform under discussion brings us back two hundred years. It is not, as the President of the Council says, a moment of improvement of the country system, but throws us back two hundred years, it makes us forget two revolutions (the American Revolution and the French Revolution), because the written Constitutions are the result of those revolutions. What have the written Constitutions established, including our own, to which, if there is a note to be made, is to have been very often inapplicable and disregarded? The point to make is that before the constitutional reforms, which became written Constitutions, there was the king who established what the laws were; instead the written Constitutions decided, through the laws, who could be the king. These were the conquests. We take a step back and hand ourselves over to this new prince of the country. I have understood my parliamentary mandate in the service of principles; I realize that it is much easier here to become addicted to commodity and serve the prince on duty. Mr President, in conclusion, I believe that the battle will go to the streets with the referendum committees, when we go to explain to the country, that we want to remain sovereign, what is the filth and the filth that is being committed with this constitutional reform. I conclude by recalling a German proverb that said that, in the end, in any man, there is value. Thinking of my President-in-Office of the Council, I believe that this is a very good thing, because the example a man can set is also the bad one. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, CoR, and Senator Bruni Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am appalled at the way things are going in Parliament, because last year, during the incardination of the electoral law, I already pointed out that there is an article in the Constitution that, by the way, you should tell me if it is still valid (of course it is no longer). I am referring to Article 72, which provides that, for certain laws, such as electoral laws, constitutional reforms, ratifications of international treaties and the laws approving budgets and accounts, the normal procedure must be observed, therefore with the passage to the Commission and then the arrival in this House. This was not done: it was not done then for the electoral law, the so-called Italicum: I asked myself at the Conference of the Leaders and you told me that everything was fine and that it could be done. We've been doing this for years. In fact, it cannot be done, but this Parliament has obviously lost and has been debased, it has been destroyed in its legislative work, and so the high offices of the State, including yours, Mr President, which is the second. The reminder for everyone: it should have required the examination to be concluded before in the Commission, in order to bring the text to the Assembly only later, but here we must always be succubi of the slogans and initiatives of a Premier, who is taking our whole country. It is doing so with a newly-born electoral law that is already unconstitutional, because, as we have had the opportunity to remember several times, it is enough to have a small percentage of votes to take home 55% of the seats. He did it with a RAI law - that if Berlusconi had done it, it would have blown up the country - putting the public information service in the hands of the government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You are absent in this House today, you are drinking coffee and pretending nothing, but ten years ago you would have been on the barricades. This turnaround is disgusting and denotes the fact that you're all in the same boat defending lobby and party interests and not doing the citizens' interests. Let us start by wondering why there is such a rush to adopt this law, because we have arrived here today, in this miserable last passage in Parliament of a constitutional reform, that if it had really been the keystone of the country, you would have voted as early as 2006, with Berlusconi. But you have not done so and today you are proposing it even worse and, indeed - as is said in the corridors outside this House - Berlusconi was perhaps even better than you, who have not even been able to comply with Parliament's democratic rules. This is demonstrated by the fact that in this text of law not a single amendment of the oppositions has passed and in particular of the 5 Star Movement, not a single request has passed to bring the State closer to the citizens, but, indeed, it has gone in the diametrically opposite direction. In 2011, with the experience of the Monti Government, Europe and the former President Napolitano began to define a secure, solid and undemocratic system of government, providing broad understanding, with everyone inside, and a gentleman was appointed to the Presidency of the Council, whom no one had voted for, namely Mario Monti. There began the collapse of real democracy, or at least its last phase, because in the previous twenty years there was not the same. From there the collapse began and it began precisely by touching our Constitution, when the balance of the budget was included in the Constitution: a choice that you have never had the courage to explain to the citizens. You never had the courage to explain that money first goes to banks and then maybe you can spend it on health care, school, services and the good of the country. You didn't do that! Then, in 2013, there was a twist: the 5 Star Movement arrived. That is why there is an urgent need for this Government and for this majority of barracks to run to the shelter and to carry out the dictates and commandments of Europe. This reform is positive credit: did you know? You know who said that? That's what JP Morgan and Moody's consultants said. These are the people you take orders from. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] Marco Zaninelli, analyst of the rating agency Moody's, said that the electoral law is positive credit and has a positive effect on the Italian sovereign debt, if accompanied by the reform to the Senate. However, the reform is a complete package of which is also part of the reform of the Senate, the effect of which is to overcome Italian political instability. The financial lords are interested in how politics and democracy decide and what is the good of Italian citizens make you say it by these gentlemen. Not only that. There is also blackmail because Moody's is a rating agency and ratings become positive if we pass this reform, otherwise not, so this is the central point: we have to carry out commandments that go against the interests of Italians like, for example, jobs act and good school. So what's it gonna take? We need to have the greatest power, the least interference of the people in voting - in fact, casually, the eligibility of senators disappears - and above all we need a system of information totally dominated by the government and the majority that constantly deprives citizens of the truth, the choices and the true motivations behind the choices of this Parliament. It is incredible that in thirty years of your governments we find ourselves at this point: voting today this emeritus crap. It leaves us disappointed that even parliamentarians who have a history have accepted any Premier's Diktat to bring this reform to this House today without a rapporteur. It's a shame. This is unheard of. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It is something that any democratic country would abhor and would never admit and you have succeeded and you are also beautiful serene, as your Premier would say, nice and quiet. Honestly, I've already told you about everything. I do not understand how one can have the courage to come and tell us that 35 interventions are obstructionism during the last passage of an epochal reform that constantly changes not only the Constitution but the structure of our State because it turns it into a monocameralism where, as we have had several times, in all the passages, to emphasize, all the powers are concentrated in the hands of only one man. Now, if journalists and the press want to start telling Italian citizens what will change and what this change really is, maybe the Italian citizens will understand it but this is a challenge that we have to face in the near future and it is not a challenge (and here we really go back to the core of the matter) to the statements of a Premier who comes to tell us that this referendum on the Constitution will be on him. Now, either you really have total mental discomfort or you understand that this is a very serious statement, because it will not be about him but about the Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We arrive, then, to that day with the right information because Italian citizens will have to vote with the awareness that they do not vote the end of the caste because the caste is strengthened. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] And above all, the caste becomes totally independent of the will of the voters because it will be autonomous, and this, gentlemen, is shameful. You have made such a messed-up law that you do not even know by which electoral law the councillors will probably have to be voted on on the basis of blackmail and parliamentary immunity, which will be the prize for a miserable career in the parties. [[Applause from Senator Bottici.]] A career that you are continuing to reward, seen and considered that you have more than 80 investigated and continue to talk about Fourth. It wouldn't take the 24 hours and all the TV schedules to talk about your suspects, your magicians, what your parties have stolen from our nation and the Italian citizens, and today we also have to pay 60% of taxes. This is the situation we are in today. We have repeatedly said that it was not enough to increase democracy in this country and in this reform. It would have been enough to elect, it would have been enough to question the roles of the two Chambers, it would have been enough to reduce the signatures for the referendum, it would have been even more difficult for the citizens to ask for referendums. This is an unheard-of thing and you are all here today blessed, I have not heard a turn, an outrage that we continue to discuss the laws without examining them in the Commission, in a fight of confidence, in a fight of missing rapporteurs, with systems totally out of the order of this Parliament. I've been here for three years, you've been here for 20 years, and you should know very well what the matter is. I do not think that a good Constitution can come out of a Parliament that makes agreements with people who say "I am the taxi that will take you from Berlusconi to Matthew." I do not think this was the spirit of our constituent Fathers, such as Calamandrei, who said that in order to find the spirit of our Constitution we must go where our young people died during the First and Second World Wars. That is the place where the principles and freedoms to which a country aspires have matured, which are not in the folds of the interests of a Renzi, a Verdini and, much less, the International Monetary Fund or the ECB or some bank such as JP Morgan, Moody's, all these gentlemen here. I don't think the interests of Italians are there; I don't think it's an action for the citizens and the interests of the country not being able to unlock, for once, the 3% ceiling, continuing to go to Brussels to bow; and today it comes out again. I don't think Hollande can over 3% of the debt-to-GDP ratio because there are terrorist attacks and we can't invest in our country when the people die, because there is no proper priority. And then the sense of this reform is only one: to bring the country to total submission to the markets, depriving citizens of the most basic freedoms and guarantees of rights. That is the point of this reform; that is where we want to go. A country of slaves who work for 300 euros per month; a country of citizens who cannot vote for their representatives, who must remain silent, so that a possible 5 Star Movement can no longer bring their demands into the Palaces. I tell you something that I told you last time: you are perfecting an authoritarian and dictatorial system that you believe remains in your hands, but it may not be so. And if that happens, I say to you: thank you that the 5 Star Movement is a democratic movement, because if it were for me I would make you take back everything you have given us in the last three years. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u39	Mr President, in these two years of debate, in fact not very frequent, on such an important issue as constitutional reform, I have had the opportunity to express all my strong opposition to this bill. You see, Senator Di Maggio, the problem is not the legislative office of Palazzo Chigi or what you improperly call 'prince', which of princely nothing has; the problem is us and especially those who tomorrow will probably express - I always hope not, hope is the last to die - 161 positive votes to this bill, which marks the end of an ultra-bimillennial history, of an institution that did not deserve to be treated like this, also - allow me, Mr President, referring to some intervention that preceded me - from the point of view of the procedures by which its 'De profundis' is sung. This Senate did not deserve to be left to a political class that is not up to it - at least I think it is - and I hope it does not - to be able to stand up to everything that preceded it. Despite the various changing changes in history, this is the Senate of Rome, the Senate of the Kingdom of Italy, the Senate of the Italian Republic. Now it will become not the Senate of Italy for the Regions, but the Senate of the Regions. It will be fed to a political class and institutions that are the worst that have proved themselves in recent decades. Today this country dies of institutional costs, of public spending that cannot be reduced, and also of poor quality of public spending, and these evils are nested mainly in the regions of Italy. If this country today returns hundreds of millions of euros to the European Union because it does not know how to spend them, this is mainly due to the regions of Italy. And we deliver this institution, which I do not want to call tragically sacred but certainly important and noble, to the worst political class that currently governs this country, with a perspective, which of course is that of the immediate dissolution of the Senate. I want to say this and I repeat it to my colleagues, who think that by voting on this reform they will reach the end of the parliamentary term: it does not exist. And I think that the first to reflect on this will be her, Mr President, when she is presiding over an institution that is no longer covered by the Constitution. What will be your intimate reflection when you are at the head of an institution that our Constitution no longer provides for in its essence, in its powers and in the performance of its tasks? If, after possible approval through the referendum - which I am convinced the Italians will use to reject this absurd bill, why, in the end, the people are increasingly wiser than those who represent them - and therefore before the final ratification of this bill, the Senate of the Republic still existing, in limine mortis, should for example hesitate a motion of distrust, since the Constitution will no longer foresee that the Senate can distrust the Government, what will you do, Mr President? Will you allow the debate on a motion of distrust to carry out a Senate task no longer provided for in the Constitution? It would certainly open at least a strong constitutional dispute in this regard. And so for so many other things: for the formation of laws that will no longer be the responsibility of the Senate, will we continue to do so even if it is no longer provided for in the Constitution? I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the direct consequence of the eventual definitive approval and consecration of this rule can only be the immediate dissolution of this House at least. And so it will end, I repeat, in a very glorious way the history of a legislature in which it occurs in an absolutely unusual way, and I would like to say unexpectedly, that the senators themselves decide on the end of the institution they represent. In fact, it is here that we decide: we know very well that everything in the Chamber will be absolutely smooth, not only because of the composition in numbers, but also because of the sort of institutional conflict to which, in twenty years of presence in this Chamber, I have always witnessed, which distinguishes the relations between the Chamber and the Senate. So colleagues, it's all in your determinations, in the determinations of the majority of our colleagues. We must not turn the responsibility of this rule over to anyone, but we must give it to those who vote for it. There are, among other things, clear conditions, in these last few days, to obtain the vote also of those who perhaps wanted to carry out a reflection: the Calendar, Mr President, about which you well know how the decision to organize it has matured in such a way that this vote takes place before the renewal of the Commissions - ephemeral, because within a year these Commissions will no longer hesitate, since you will not be able to do without sending home the entire Senate, and therefore there will be no more their summits - and the examination of other draft laws that could create problems within the majority and therefore have repercussions on the vote on the reforms. These acts were postponed, because this reform had to have priority. But the acceleration, as I said, is not only the result of a parliamentary tactic, it is also a demonstration of a precise will to get rid of this Senate, where sometimes the numbers can also be not favorable to the majority and therefore can give surprises to those who instead want this country to be guided, managed and governed without any possibility of contradictory. That is the fundamental reason why we are moving forward hastily. Indeed, the House of Deputies is studying the system to speed up the constitutional procedures even more, forcing the times, where the forcings made in recent months at the regulatory and constitutional level were never enough. One last remark I would like to make to the colleagues elected in Sicily. Sicily is an autonomous region with a special status, which is once again mortified by this majority - reflected, dear colleagues of Sicily, also on this passage - in the contents of this norm. Sicily, with its five million inhabitants, with its specialty, which is the oldest in Italy, which dates back to 1946, will have seven representatives in the future Senate of the Regions; not for the Regions but for the Regions, and, please, perhaps it would be appropriate, with a next legging, to delete the word "Senato" and to bring back the future assembly to its nature of a Constitutionalized State-Regions Conference: it will certainly not be the Senate as we have understood it and how we are used to studying it also in history books. Sicily will have seven representatives with five million inhabitants; Trentino-Alto Adige will have four, with 1.5 million inhabitants. A disparity that also collides with the provisions of Article 3 of the Constitution; a disparity that arises from the need to hold firm the vote of the Group of Autonomouss because it is decisive for the approval of this reform. Once again a rule built only on the opportunity and the outcome of being able to approve it, and not in the interest of the country. That is why I returned to the first concept that I had when the debate on constitutional reform began. The Constitution, modified in its entirety and in the vast majority of its contents, as this law wants to do, is changed through a constituent Assembly and not through a Parliament that must govern everyday life with conditioning, political blackmail, with dout des and a whole series of issues that end up altering the goodness of the norm, as happened in this circumstance. If we had had a constituent assembly elected in a proportional and non-majority way (because there is also a lack of origin on the legitimacy to amend the Constitution in such a vast way by a Parliament elected by majority vote), if it had been a constituent Assembly to launch this reform, the results would have been absolutely different, much more balanced, much more respectful of the individual territorial representations (as in the case of Sicily, on which I invite Sicilian colleagues to reflect adequately); certainly much more attentive to the so-called burdens and counterweights that have always balanced the life of the Italian Republic after the approval of the Constitution of 1946. And do not call into question the constituent Fathers, because they may also be disturbed in their proper rest. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u40	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, last September the draft Constitutional Reform Act at third reading - the second here in the Senate - was brought to the House by an act of force, without even having begun the examination of the amendments in the Commission and - I remember - not because of the large number of the same amendments, which were withdrawn in due time, but because the majority did not have the guarantee of numbers. The Group of the North League and Autonomy had tabled 80 million amendments to make it clear the need to stop the authoritarian drift behind this reform. We withdrew several million to give a signal of availability, but the violation of the rules by the Government and the majority, with the approval of his Senate Presidency, has eliminated any confrontation and attempt to modify proposed by the oppositions. On that occasion, a minimal debate between the various directorates of the Democratic Party, with properly piloted internal clashes, was mainly focused on the electivity of the senators, thus representing a diversion with which the Renzi Government wanted to cover a massive general reform of the republican institutions, of which that of the Senate constitutes only one piece. After only four months the constitutional bill returns to Palazzo Madama in fifth reading, with a further political acceleration and a veritable raid wanted by the Government that, with arrogance, reaffirms that it is the master of what should instead be a parliamentary initiative. To us senators, for Renzi close to the demolition, a handful of hours was shamefully granted, between the Commission and the Assembly, to salute the bestowal to the macero of the Republican Constitution approved by the constituent Assembly on December 22, 1947 and entered into force on January 1, 1948 (so less than seventy years ago). The North League returns here to condemn, in its method and in its substance, the bill. We cannot accept this bad reform, aimed at bringing the Italian State back to post-unitarian centralism with an anachronistic reorganization and a re-concentration in Rome of much of the powers. Faced with the inefficiency of a part of the territorial authorities, which we do not deny, the Government and you of the majority want to humiliate everyone, especially the many virtuous entities that in recent years have developed models of sound and efficient public administration, becoming models and points of reference outside. I mean, you want a reverse world. We are convinced that the reform will only lead to further inefficiency and further growth in public spending. Yet, at its debut the reform set itself important goals, partly shared by us by the North League (movement that - I repeat - is the authentic and coherent reforming soul of the country, not swinging as happened in the last lustres for the Democratic Party). The Premier strives to say that for decades Italians have been waiting for the reform of the Constitution, coming even some time ago, driven by its irrepressible vanity and overflow, to talk about a seventy-year wait. Nevertheless, for the record, I would like to remind you here that the overcoming of equal bicameralism, the reduction of parliamentarians, the reduction of the running costs of the institutions and the revision of Title V of the Constitution (which is the title of this bill) are pre-emptive objectives and already present in the reform of 2005 (the so-called devolution). [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] Although this reform has passed all the parliamentary passages, the Party of Left Democrats of that time, today the Democratic Party, through a powerful ideological campaign and political exploitation, invited the citizens to demolish it in the 2006 referendum. For the record, I remember that Renzi, then President of the Province of Florence, as party leader then pushed his voters to reject the reform. Let me tell you: compared to the draft law under consideration, evolution of the basic bill written by the Renzi-Boschi couple, the so-called devolution was written much better in terms of both form and content and lowered the age in order to become congressman or senator with a sensitivity and attention to young people who in the text under consideration have found no space. With that rejection - most respectable, for God's sake, because the popular vote, which you are gradually reducing and parading to Italians, is always to be respected - has been lost over ten years. You of the Democratic Party, then the main detractors of that reform, spoke of teasing the Italians because the decrease of the parliamentarians, which consisted of a significant cut of 25% of the members of both the Senate and the House, would not have taken place immediately, but only after a legislature, starting in 2011. That's crazy. It's 2016. It has been ten years and we are still thinking about these cuts, but the Premier wants only for the Senate and not for the House. On the occasion of the 2006 referendum campaign, there were MPs of the Democratic Party who accused of demolition of the Constitutional Charter, institutional confusion, risk of authoritarian drift and other similar amenities. Today, however, with the exception of very few courageous voices outside the choir, you are shamelessly endorsing a mess. Many of them are hypocrites. These parliamentarians assist as servants, suffering the prevarication by the party's master - maneuvered by the troika and by the strong powers - to the demolition of the Constitution with the support of the good press, in the fearful murmur of constitutionalists and men of culture who for a long time have not been intent on signing appeals to the Head of State, also silent and therefore complicit in the total absence of the now distant oceanic demonstrations of the square. In the second reading in the House, the reform was much worse than it had come out of the Senate. The minimum of decency that the text came out of this House at first reading has been removed. The Senate had its functions, as did the Regions, even though they were diminished. There was a reference to standard costs, and therefore to fiscal federalism; there was a link between the State and the European Union. Everything's been canceled. It is unacceptable for the League to return to the state centralization of any major choice, strengthened even with the supremacy clause whereby the State is given the opportunity to intervene in all matters of competence of the Regions thus making disappear any form of autonomy. The abolition of federalism at variable speeds is unacceptable. It is unacceptable to relegate the Senate to an empty place of functions without autonomous legislative activity and therefore to little more than a post-rail job, without any significant role for future senators and senator mayors. It is unacceptable that senators are not directly elected and will therefore be deprived of any direct control by the people. The change made in the Senate at the third reading, in order only to reset dissent and secure the vote of the critical minority within the Democratic Party, is a cryptic and messy disposition, unworthy of a Constitution. In fact, the provision that senators should be identified in accordance with the choices made by voters at the time of the renewal of the same regional councils is a mockery, it is a deception for citizens! The regional councillors will elect from among themselves. All bad provisions, which should have led to prefer a more dignified choice for the Senate itself, i.e. its suppression. The North League would have wanted a different measure: with more federalism, with more popular sovereignty, with less interference than the European Union and less public spending. Excuse me: but in the face of a reduction to 100 of the number of senators, why did the number of Members remain unchanged to 630 despite the title of the reform speak of a reduction of Members; I repeat: parliamentarians and not just senators? Explain to me the meaning of this macroscopic numerical difference, which will make the Senate virtually irrelevant at Parliament's meetings in common sitting, perhaps convened to elect the guarantee bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough to make reforms regardless. These must be of content and quality. If they're doomed, you try to improve them at all costs. Otherwise, it freezes them. And the North League in October will be at the forefront to try to mobilize as many Italians as possible to go with conviction to the electoral booth to express their dissent to this reform! In fact, we cannot repeat very serious errors such as those committed by the disordered Delrio reform, which intervened on the Provinces without eliminating them, but only changing the system of election. Delrio has already shown that with hasty and improvised reorganizations you do not save a euro, on the contrary it is easier to spend even more. Also because the Constitution is at stake here, with the risk of heavy and incalculable damage that would fall on the country for several years. As were the Provinces with Delrio, today for Renzi the elected senators who receive the allowances are the new scapegoats to be sacrificed to the demagogic and populist wave that permeates Italy and of which the Premier is incomparable and indisputable maximum interpreter. This government, precisely with the Delrio reform, began to make institutional butchery. A reform that represented the first attack on the local autonomy, where President and Provincial Council are no longer elected by the people, but by the various municipal councils, which express themselves behind the indications of the parties. It is an attack on direct democracy, just like today's constitutional bill. Delrio is a revolting and irresponsible reform: it has created chaos with staff, functions and service management, creating new problems for businesses and citizens. Many of us here are pretending nothing, but it must be remembered that most of the Provinces that should still be concerned with roads, schools and the environment have the budget in disarray. The negative experience of the Delrio reform should have suggested caution and attention. All the more so if we think about the combination between constitutional reform and Italicum, which raises the risk of bringing the country to a regime where in Parliament, around man only at the command, there will be plenty of courtiers, Reggyod, and swindlers of the party secretary, as my colleague D'Anna once said. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Colleagues, but do not lack democracy an architecture of the State that, in the hands of a relative majority party, which perhaps only collects 20, 25, we also make 30% of the consents, delivers 55% of the Members and, in addition to the Presidency of the Council, also the Presidencies of the Chamber and Senate and above all the guarantee bodies, such as the President of the Republic, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Council of the judiciary and even the appointment of the Authorities? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In order to justify the reform, a number of colleagues from the majority of the two conceptions of democracy said that they preferred that assembly, based on the centrality of Parliament, the one based on the responsibility of the Executive. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that in Italy for too many years the Premier, so also Renzi, are no longer elected and appointed by the people, but are appointed: this is a serious matter. I therefore support what Mr Calderoli has said several times and also in his last speech: if in a system the majority controls the guarantee bodies, it is called the regime. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Our conscience and institutional responsibility should lead us to make reforms for the good of the nation and the Italians, who deserve serious proposals and content and do not approve obnoxious for party loyalty and discipline. The architecture of the State, which we are called to redesign, must be designed and realized regardless of who is currently at the top, must be designed for the future of the country; also because history teaches that political power is resting on a rotating wheel and that in a few years could bring to power someone to whom democracy does much worse than what happens today. Yeah, this reform is very likely to take the country to a dangerous ridge. It is antihistoric to insist on concentrating every decisive choice in the hands of a central power that presumes to know better than all what the common good is. Instead, we must focus on the freedom, responsibility and creativity of people, businesses, communities, social actors and territories, and therefore on decentralisation and autonomy. Unfortunately, this reform goes diametrically and dangerously in the opposite direction. It must be stopped and we, as the North League, will make a strong contribution to achieving this goal. This means that Renzi will go home and, at that point, those who will rule will be able to devote themselves to what interests citizens: less taxes, less Fornero, less industry studies, less illegal, less Europe, but more work and more development. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u42	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u43	Mr President, so we arrived at the third reading of the Senate of Constitutional Reform. Well the third reading. An important fact, however, that risks passing in total silence, as if we were discussing a normal bill or decree. (16.52) (Following PETRAGLIA). But this - it is clear now - is a strategy. This is the will of the Government and the majority, to which the major media are perfectly conforming and aligning. Has anyone noticed, apart from us employees and attentive citizens, that the second reading in the House was approved on 11 January? Has anyone noticed that that same day, in the Chamber of Parliamentary Groups, there was a very crowded assembly of the national committee for the "no" to explain the reasons for our opposition to constitutional reform and even more so, if read together with the electoral law, the combined arrangement of constitutional reform and electoral law? In those same hours, illustrious journalists have ruled - goodness them - that the referendum will not have started and that it will win the "yes". Do you really think that all you have to do is call for the abolition of the Senate and the supposed savings and stir up anti-parliamentaryism, increasing the opposition between the people and Parliament, so that we can easily win? The only result will be the continuous and profound delegitimization of Parliament and democratic institutions. You will make your usual demagogic announcements to ride the wave of anti-politics and we will assume the responsibility to take responsibility for rebuilding the sense of the state, the civic sense, and to reconnect that now destroyed thread between citizens and institutions, between citizens and politics, which you have fun to unravel every day. Perhaps many of you will have missed that the party that today wins the elections in Italy is that of the abstainers, of those who prefer not to go to vote, because they do not recognize any party and any movement as worthy of representing them. Well, we believe that from here we must start, from how the spaces of democratic participation are expanded. And there is only one way to do that: to fully implement the Constitution, to strengthen Republican institutions. We will tell the citizens of your idea of democracy, indeed that of the President of the Council and his clan of friends: abolishing all widespread representation of citizens, weakening until the role of elected and participatory assemblies is resurrected, changing the parliamentary system, but without having the courage to declare it, to move from a parliamentary Republic to that of man only under command. This is his ideology, to which you are explainingly approving (I address in particular to colleagues of the Democratic Party), the ideology that inspired every law of this Government that you have punctually and almost all silently approved: the jobs act, the school, the public administration (it is a very long list). The Government proposes to upset the protections that had been inserted by the constituent Fathers to protect democracy and the Republic. And therefore, strong of the numbers found, with a more than questionable parliamentary path, you will approve this reform. Then it's up to us. We will tell the country the truth, and that is that the only thing you plan to break up is democracy so that we can, undisturbed, continue with the worst policies of the right which, in recent years, have impoverished the country and handed over rights and freedoms to the Europe of markets, the Stability Pact and the fiscal compact. The austerity policies that the Premier pretends to challenge in Europe are all well alive with government acts. The pantomime of the alleged clash with Juncker is the usual old scheme that the President of the Council has used since the beginning of his political ascent: one chooses an enemy; the contrasts on which to draw lively media conflicts to divert attention from real problems are amplified. It is no coincidence that the alleged clash with Juncker came just as a real economic and political case broke out, the failure of the four small banks, including Bank Etruria. But we will do everything we can to bring back the debate on real things. We will say that, in the name of simplification, you have eliminated the Provinces in order - you said - to leave 3,000 politicians at home, riding the wave of that populism against which you hurled in words every day, but of which you are succubs, to invent a system of second level elections that allows you to fully control the elected. You have taken away the participation and freedom of choice of citizens and you have not even been able to reorganise the complex system of functions and competences, not to mention the work uncertainty to which you have forced so many workers and workers in the Provinces. We will say that the abolition of the Senate elected by the citizens will not put an end to the caste and its privileges and will not lead to any savings. The Senate will be replaced by 100 selected senators, whose costs will be borne by the regional budgets, with all the difficulty of exercising a role on confused functions and competences, on legislative procedures that will produce difficulties of operation in the connection between the House and the Senate. Of course this will always benefit the Executive, where you continue undisturbed in the perpetuation of the caste, since there you enter co-opted for friendship and eventually also for competence. And you have not even stopped to think that other conflicts of competence could open up between the State and the Regions. Despite propagating reform like that of the Senate of the Regions, actually ended up refocusing the exclusive legislative power in the hands of the State on fundamental issues such as public finance, tax system, social policies, active policies for work. End the season of federalism and open the way to the worst regionalism that, translated, will mean the Balkanization of the Senate. We will tell Italian citizens that your alleged constitutional reform is functional to your electoral fraud law. The Italicum gives the winning list of the elections a shameful majority prize according to which, with 40% of the votes taken (whatever the level of participation in the vote of the citizens), 54 percent of the seats are awarded or, better, an overwhelming majority handing over Parliament to the hands of one party and one man. These are numbers that will allow the majority to elect the President of the Republic on its own, forgetting that the Constitutions introduced a high quorum precisely to release such a delicate election from the government majority alone and to assure the President of the Republic the character of representative of national unity. It is a very serious measure which undermines, beyond the permissible limits, the principle of equality of voting. Justify this scam in the name of governability, as if the experiences of these years of the various major prizes have guaranteed stability and continuity. Porcellum, too, should have guaranteed government stability and avoided transformation. And yet, ladies and gentlemen and especially dear MPs of the Democratic Party, I remind you that today you are the Government thanks also to our small 3.2 percent and the votes taken by SEL, necessary to trigger the majority prize. But today governed with the center-right of Alfano, Giovanardi, Formigoni and Verdini - other than governability! - that constitute a good representation of those same who, in 2006, proposed a constitutional reform that, with an unequivocal popular vote, was rejected by the Italian people. And at the time we were together, dear comrades of the Democratic Party, to say no. Today you changed your mind and aligned. Maybe there was a counter-order. We will say that history and memory are important to us. We must not forget that the Constitution is born from the values of Resistance, anti-fascism and partisan struggles of those who have lost their lives for democracy. We will tell of the profound topicality of that part of the Constitution that is still to be implemented, starting with that article 3 so important in our debate on civil unions, starting with that fact, which Teresa Mattei had introduced and which today is - or rather could be, if really implemented - a guarantee of social equality. We will say that those who say that, for seventy years, they have been expecting to change the Constitution - a statement that takes a punch, as well as history, even politics - are confessing to being on the other side, on the side of those who think that the Constitution can be broken up in the name of electoral campaigns or a permanent party congress. With the referendum, the word passes to the citizens, just as the Constituents wrote in Article 138 of the Constitution. It is a serious mistake to confuse the constitutional referendum with a plebiscite on the work of its government. It is a real form of blackmail that the President of the Council has put in place. And here, then, you have exposed your idea of democracy! There's no duel going on. It's not personal. However, we are aware that it is very difficult to understand it for the new Constituents. The referendum - as Professor Carlassare explained these days - serves to strengthen the rigidity of the Constitution, preventing the majority from changing it alone. The referendum, therefore, is a possibility, when the reform did not involve minorities, to allow those who do not agree to try to make it fail. We are discussing the fate of the Constitution, therefore, and not that of the President of the Council, who - as we all remember - lives badly, as populist as it is, the fact that he was not directly elected by the citizens in Parliament and that he arrived at the Government only with palace struggles. And, therefore, it seeks to use the referendum for electoral legitimacy, to strengthen its personal power, to be exercised without controls and counterweights, without anyone contradicting it. But that is not what is provided for in Article 138. Now is the time when each of us will have to say which side to stand on. It is no longer possible to hide in Byzantineisms, stuttering empty and unclear formulas. And I appeal, in particular, to all those who in the last year and a half have lowered the bar of the sense of the limit to the unacceptable. Now there will be no alibi. You will have to say which side to stand on: with democracy and the republican and anti-fascist constitution or with the prince. We will be the intransigent conservatives of the Constitution, of rights, of freedoms and of democracy. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bocchino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u44	I greet the girls and boys of the sports association C.K.O.S.S., Polihandy Club Karate of Varese. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u45	Madam President, I will be the first out of tune: after the speeches before me, I will be the first to break a spear in favour of this reform and I will do so with absolute conviction, even if with due and small reservations and without leaps of joy. It is a reform that has consumed repeated parliamentary passages and now reaches the final goal and we as a People's Alliance believe that there is no reason to change our mind about our initial position. We believe that we can confirm our support for the definition of a process of constitutional reform of which we feel absolutely protagonists and of which we have been promoters as a government force. I am referring to the great legislative adventure which, in this branch of Parliament, we hope will come to an end tomorrow. We have been confronted with a historical reform - in my opinion - which will radically change the institutional system, the constitutional structure and the relationship between the institutional bodies of our nation and which, as such, I believe would have written differently from how it will be hesitated. I have compared this reform to a dress of tailoring, which everyone would have liked to cut to size, but unfortunately this is absolutely not possible. Although not all the contents of the reform have left each of us completely satisfied, I must say that we have managed to improve the reform, compared to the initial text, thanks to the contribution of parliamentary activity and, above all, to the great work and commitment of the Senate's Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and to fill it with substance and content, although none of us expect it to be accepted and shared by all. I have just been a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs but, as an informed Member of Parliament, I already knew the good work done there and, therefore, on behalf of the Group of the People's Area, I would like to thank President Finocchiaro and his staff for having carried out the work of the Commission in a wonderful way during this period. Of course, initially we would all have been particularly and theoretically fascinated by the possibility of taking other paths, to arrive at constitutional reform. I am referring, for example, to the constituent Assembly, which would probably have been the best route. We would all have liked this reform to be written in two hands, by the majority and the opposition, but I realize that this has been difficult. We would have liked it, so we would have also avoided the decision of Italian citizens, through the referendum instrument, a vote that - apparently - will be held in the autumn and that apparently will... president. Senator, I invite you to conclude. MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Do I have to finish yet? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It was the Group that set the time at its disposal, not me. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] I shall begin with the conclusion, Madam President. I am sorry, but I was not aware of this limitation, otherwise I would have been more concise at the beginning of my speech. I had many things to say but, given the limitation, I reserve for the next time, which unfortunately, however, will no longer be there. I shall therefore confine myself to confirming my Group's support for constitutional reform. We do this with conviction and we believe that we are absolutely consistent. We believe that our Group has made an important contribution to the reform, through the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and through the work of Senator Quagliariello, who unfortunately is no longer in our Group and I hope that tomorrow, together with Senator Augello, will be consistent with the path taken during this period and with the contribution given as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I ask that I be able to deliver the written text of my speech, so that it can be published in the Minutes of today's sitting. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u46	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u47	She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u48	Madam President, on the text we are debating today, approved by the House, this Government has worked hard to upset the Constitutional Charter and to create further damage to the Italians. The Constitution of a great country cannot and must never be owned by a single part, nor by the Government of turn, by its very nature. With this bill, the majority in the government of the country blocked, with exchanges, blackmail and transformations, the democratic exercise and all this only to ingratiate itself the only end user of the reform that we all know who it is. And he did so by using people who were willing to interpret the parliamentary regulations in an abnormal way, creating embarrassing precedents. But all this still seems normal to you, even though you have already touched with your hand what it means to have one man in command. Constitutionalists have noted that the combination between the electoral system and this rewriting undermines the foundations of democracy and carries serious and concrete risks of authoritarian drift. Those who win the election must, yes, be able to rule, but they cannot control everything. The functioning of democracy is difficult, close between inconclusion and force. Whoever believes that this is a battle that is fought once every five years, at the time of the general elections, and that in the interval everything is granted because you are the winner, is mistaken and is destined to be overwhelmed, sooner or later, by his own arrogance or by his own naivety. The first triumphant victim of illusion will be Parliament, which will only have to ensure the action of those who won the elections. Parliament must be the obedient support of this or of these, it must be an executive body of the will of the Government and thus farewell to the division of legislative and executive powers. The Movement has always argued that the institutions must function better and cost less and has always believed that the legislative process must be streamlined, but what is in place is not an improvement: it is the official burial of the Constitutional Charter and, with it, the values and sacrifices of those who voted unanimously. The Senate risks no longer counting anything in Italy, nor will it be able to mitigate the imbalance of powers that is produced also thanks to the new electoral law of the House. But by not being able to eliminate it purely and simply, you have been lost in a device whose absurd structural complication and the methods of extracting the new senators from the local assemblies and the proceedings with the other Chamber will only see the light when it is to be experienced the operation and there to pay the costs will once again be democracy. Moreover, today, as a reform, the inspirers of electoral reform pretend to realize that perhaps, with this system, it will be too easy for a majority even not high to elect a President of the Republic, which we had already pointed out for some time. And we do not fall into misunderstandings: it is a silly argument to say that electoral law is different from constitutional reform when, vice versa, it is undeniable that electoral law is a decisive part of the system's set-up, decisively affecting representation and, therefore, influencing the form of government of each country, a form of government that you have been transformed into a premiered. We do not talk about the incredible confusion that will be created in the system of sources, with the presence of equal and non-equal bicameral laws, with matters of competence entrusted by agreements between Presidents of the Chamber and Senate and with possible and predictable litigation before the Constitutional Court, the Senate of the Regions, and perhaps also by the State, in defence of their respective competences. You have therefore demolished the Constitutional Charter with an authoritarian bully on the basis of unspeakable agreements and in the name of the new world order that you so long for. That is why it is a civil duty for us today not to support this reform. Let us say no to those who have dismantled the supreme values of civil coexistence. However, I would like to conclude my speech by pointing out that, when we first entered this Parliament, it happened not because of us, but because of the demerit of the party's actions. [[Applause from Senator Castaldi]] Instead of understanding the strong signal coming from the citizens and changing - which, moreover, would have allowed us to return home - you have perched, doing everything to maintain the status quo and disinteresting you every day more than people, as well demonstrated by the jobs act, the reform of popular banks, the good school, the unlock Italy, the decree on banks and so on. You worry so much about this 'cracker' - as my colleague has said - that it is urgent to close and no concern about the 54 billion safeguard clauses that affect the next three years; no concern about the loss of 5 billion per year because of the derivative contracts signed by the State, on which, among other things, nothing can be known; no concern about the protection of public accounts that is now totally non-existent. The main question remains, however, one: with the centralization of power in the hands of the President-in-Office of the Council - whatever political color it may be - that culminates with this reform and that has been going on for months, decree after decree and delegation after delegation, how do we stop the person who, once put in that position of power, should lose his head? There remains only one coup d'état or an armed revolution, having removed, with this reform, any democratic counterweight. Today you take on this responsibility. I trust that in the referendum people will vote no, to give you again a clear signal that what you do does not go in the direction they want. Democracy and the most beautiful Constitution in the world today do not say goodbye, they tell us only goodbye, I see you after the referendum. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u49	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u50	Madam President, I have also tried, in the general debate that took place within the Commission, to find new ideas that were introduced by the speakers, but I realize that, indeed, the arguments and issues are now retracing patterns already seen, crushed and retrieved. I think it's important to bring a little experience, too. In these months we have tried to explain the content of the reform on the ground. I "peak" to return to the territory, to talk to people, within the party, and to make assemblies and evenings in which we try to explain what we are doing. And I think the results are positive: we talk to people who, in the last 20 years, have heard the same things over and over again and have never been able to see concrete results. Today, however, this does not happen. We are protagonists of a great season of reforms, of a phase in which we follow the words, promises and announcements so reproached by Renzi a parliamentary work. When reforms are not achieved, the reason is that there are no conditions, but above all there is no political will, because if there were, things could be done. Well, in the months we are living there is a clear political will, which is expressed through the vote in this House, the vote in the parliamentary classrooms. And this is the important fact that needs to be emphasized. There are no goodsmen, there are no constraints. I believe that we are all free people and today we have taken the responsibility to carry out a period of reforms that the country has been waiting for twenty years and which has led - I believe also as a Democratic Party - to a great deal of confrontation within us. We are modernising the country, which - watch out - is an action that can only happen where there is a mature democracy. This is the first fundamental aspect. A mature democracy manages to grasp the limits of its own structuring, even institutional, and the evolutions of society. It is a democracy that manages to grasp how our country can remain competitive in a much more complex international framework and that decides to take initiatives of important reforms, which go to change the country deeply, but they go to make it more responsive to the needs of citizens and businesses and - I believe - overall more responsive to the need to represent the country within the parliamentary classrooms. This is the path we have taken, which has strongly involved and also crossed the Democratic Party. The PD had to modernise itself in order to be able to be the driving force behind these reforms, and this does not happen simply or easily, but requires an application, a capacity for reflection and confrontation that we have been able to put in place not only within the party - and I do not even remember all the steering meetings that we have done to discuss the various points - but also here in Parliament. We started from different positions and we reached an important agreement, a significant meeting point between positions that found the conditions to make a choice. And when a choice in Parliament sees the United Democratic Party, it is also able to attract the responsibilities and capabilities of other political forces, who know how to lead back to important choices for the country. In the minutes I have available, I want to remain politically alone. I think we're in front of a watershed. After all the last years of discussions on reforms, getting to the bottom of them creates a situation of watersheds: what it was before will not be after and we are going to live a future as protagonists, and this applies to everyone. It is a watershed for Italian politics, because with this ability to implement reforms we give credibility to the policy that, in the surveys and measurements carried out, stands at 5% or at very low percentages of liking. By showing that we are also able to influence the liturgies and conditions of politics that today sees in so many citizens an attitude of distrust, we try to demonstrate that, before we even get our hands on the things that affect the country, we started from ourselves, and I believe that this is important. But then, when we did this, we went to put in place an important reform action also in the country. The reforms that we have put in place in recent months and which the Government has taken forward have, of course, all been mentioned in the negative sense. It was a blocked country that lived on its own certainties and, unarmed, looked at their loss without moving a finger. And we have tried to deepen dynamism, to gather the best energies, to motivate young people and give back strength to the engine that is at the base of a country, which is the school. We have tried to free energy through initiatives such as jobs act. For what I have seen in my story experience on the territory of what we are doing, I believe there are growing awareness and satisfaction of the work done. It was difficult to imagine that Parliament could do all this, but instead we recovered the conditions for sharing a political will capable of deciding and not doing what has always been done, namely postponing it. In the face of the problems we have not been able to find a solution and so we have postponed, so another will think about it, we will think about it tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. No: let's think about it now and face up to the issues, take our responsibilities and modernise the country, with great confidence in the citizens. Doing what we're doing is basically monocameralism. When one hears that, rather than that, it was necessary to close the Senate, it is a joke that no longer believes even those who pronounce it. We have tried to give a real answer to the country, which is a substantial mono-cameralism, but it takes into account its institutional structure, made up of local autonomy, regions and municipalities, and raises it to the equal rank of Parliament in order to contribute to its development. One cannot but understand this depth, this reflection, something that really goes in the direction of better understanding the reality in which we live. Sometimes I think that I have colleagues who have their eyes closed in front of reality, because ours is a country that has made a way, that has been able to experience also a federalism that today, with this reform, we resume and rewrite, through a new relationship between State and Regions. Here we give a judgment on the past years. We recognize that something has not worked, that on some issues specific to the concurrent legislation between State and Regions you cannot continue to go on in this way; that there is the need to make our Country competitive, that passes through an ability to formulate strategies on important issues that must be carried out through the Government and the central State, with the contribution and consultation of all other institutional levels, but through this taking of responsibility to make strategic choices. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude. COLLINA (PD). Madam President, in the time I had available, I tried to cut this down on my speech, because I felt it was inappropriate to list all the issues contained in the reform - which we know very well - which, of course, have all been mentioned in a negative way. I believe that this last passage to the Senate - and I conclude, President - is not a diversion. And we do this not to distract someone's attention, but to continue to keep our citizens' attention on these issues and on all the social formations present in our country, which I believe will respond positively. The referendum is not just a matter of citizens and parties; it is also a matter of a living, organized and structured country which, in my opinion, has taken full advantage of the commitment we have made and which we have maintained. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u51	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, this text concerns Title V and bicameralism: an important part of that great reform that was in the aspirations with which the legislature opened, which also included the revision of the form of government and, in harmony with the new architecture, the modification of the electoral law. In short, today we are talking about a partial measure, but that does not mean that, if approved, this reform will still have historical value. At the previous reading I voted in favour, and I can say that some of this reform belongs to me. More importantly, it belongs to that Committee of Experts which I had the honour of chairing as Minister of Reform, which has worked intensively for months in a spirit of cooperation and on which the current Premier has not failed to exercise his irony at the proper time, asking - I quote - to retire the essays who retire to Francavilla. The result of that work was finally imposed on the extravagant proposal that had been made and that provided for a Senate made up of mayors and appointed by the President of the Republic, and therefore, because of its composition, unable to play that role as compensation chamber between regional legislator and national legislator able to return to Parliament a bit of that sovereignty that the permanent dispute between State and Regions devolved to the Constitutional Court. As far as this text is concerned, I consider this to be a good thing. In order to assess the disruptions, we need to widen the view. Each reform must be judged in a more comprehensive institutional context. (17.28) (Followed by Mr Quagliarello). Each part must take account of the others. And the context in which this reform falls partly conditioning it. We have abolished the relationship of trust between the Government and a Chamber and have laid the foundations for the Senate to enter only a few, very few great political forces. We have, therefore, reduced representation. This should have been taken into account by the electoral law that, instead, challenging the "spirit of time" and without ensuring stability (that stability that does not depend on an electoral law and a bi-party format, as the experience of the People of Freedom taught us, and that much more depends on those institutional mechanisms that we await from the famous agenda Perassi), forces the institutional orthopedia to impose on the system a bi-party format. And our time is not even a time of bipolarism: it is not in Italy, but not in France or Spain. And electoral laws are always empirical and approximate instruments that political time must take into account. Not surprisingly, fathers of the proportional reform of 1919, such as Don Luigi Sturzo and Salvemini, at a different juncture became supporters of majority systems. In short: in a context in which the space of representation is already compressed, and in which throughout Europe the right-left fault is no longer the exclusive ground of political confrontation, we have approved an electoral law that effectively abolishes the coalitions, forces the current government allies to fade their identity and relegates them to the prospect of being allied until the day before the vote, and then have to choose between loneliness and absorption in the lists of the main party (I do not want to talk about affiliation). We did so with a vote of confidence that saw outside the parliamentary assemblies not only oppositions, but even a part of the relative majority party. This situation, which was later claimed as a "parliamentary masterpiece." Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I personally am among those, and not from today, who have felt that Italian democracy needed more efficiency rather than more counterweights. I am well aware that the Commission's structural weakness in the Constitutional Charter of 1947 stems from peculiar historical circumstances: from the veil of ignorance which at the time prevented us from knowing which of the two sides that referred to the dominating superpowers of the Cold War would prevail; from the border position between the two blocks in which geopolitics forced our country, even more after the break between Stalin and Tito; finally, from the consociative practice (I use the term in a technical and not derogatory sense) that dominated the material development of our political life after 1953 for the presence in Italy of the largest communist party in the Western world. In short, I am not afraid of authoritarian torsions and I do not share, with respect to the text in our examination, alarms in this regard. I did not even share the view that, in the revision of the bicameral structure, the second Chamber should become an institutional counterweight, because it is not in any part of the world. Nevertheless, the problem of a constitutional balance also exists for countries, such as Italy, in which the executive power has suffered from a congenital weakness and its strengthening represents a healthy therapy. And this problem must be considered, by identifying the counterweights in other gears of the institutional machine. During the process of examining the measure in the Senate I had indicated some of them: the rationalization of the Authorities and effective parliamentary control; the forecast of a Joint Committee on Public Finance - God knows how much we would need it today - presided over by a member of the oppositions as core business of their statutes. I have to say that not only have those amendments not been accepted, but the problem of constitutional imbalance has worsened at the last reading, providing for a method of election of the President of the Republic that potentially leads him back to the dynamics of the relative majority party: too little for him to be considered a guarantor, enough for an internal minority of that party to be able, in hypothesis, to block the election and, with it, to paralyze the system. It is with constructive spirit and without any conservative intent that I have therefore presented five draft laws that specifically concern the reform of the electoral law, the statute of parties, the election of the President of the Republic, the Authorities and the statute of oppositions. If taken into account, they could prevent this reform from being unfinished and eventually a missed opportunity. I am well aware that not everything can be done right away, and I must also acknowledge that the interlocking of my concerns, even more than my own, by Minister Boschi did not stop at the time of the last transition of the reform to the Senate. This recognition of the Minister's work and courtesy cannot, however, fail to note that so far no political commitment has been made, if not one of the opposite sign: that of not changing the electoral law, in spite also of the alleged - very supposed - private reassurances announced by the government allies. Finally, Mr President, this reform is part of a political framework that cannot be ignored. At least it cannot be ignored by those who had begun this legislature in the sign of an ancient hope: the hope that the great political cultures that have deep roots in the history of this country could finally recognize and legitimize themselves. The result of the urns of 2013 gave us in fact a historic opportunity: the end of a bipolarism rissoso; the possibility that the rules of a new season of the Republic were written together, also to give answers to an electorate that by giving a huge consensus (it is right who preceded me) to the 5 Star Movement had sounded loud alarm bell. I defended that hope in every possible way. I did so by not pulling back from strong choices when a government that was then really emergency would have been demolished, without having an alternative design. I did this by saying goodbye to the Nazarene pact as a possible recovery time. I also defended that hope by leaving an institutional post to contribute more discreetly, but equally effective, to the implementation of the reform. In more than half the legislature I cannot help but take note of what is left of that hope. It governs with variable geometry majorities, depending on themes, circumstances and conveniences. The possibility, not only of an emerging collaboration, but also of a coalition relationship, has in fact been cleared. Finally, there is a worrying centralisation of power: the reform of the public television service raises no less perplexity than what the European Union has expressed in relation to Polish law, and press reports draw equally reassuring scenarios on issues such as municipal control or cybersecurity. It is consistent with such a context, but it is not acceptable, and much less acceptable, to conceive of constitutional reform as a ground for ultimate confrontation; to brandish it as a weapon against conservatisms that certainly exist, to overcome, however, not the resistance to modernization, Mr Collina, but political concerns of a very different nature. I am well aware, Mr President, that a political reading of the referendum would eventually come. But launching the referendum campaign when we are still debating in these classrooms, and legitimizing the premature and instrumental constitution of opposing committees is another political error in which the President-in-Office of the Council has incurred. This does not create a new bipolarism, but at the most we stage a clash between system and antisystem that not only does not represent a advancement, but is a regression towards a blocked system that Italy has known for long decades and that today finds no justification in the international context. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we left almost three years ago trying to unite the country in the sign of a necessary reform. We have linked legal and constitutional cultures which had been opposed for decades and which have proved themselves willing to cooperate. We have come to the end of this affair with a reform that divides the country and that brings conservatism into play because this is instrumentally useful to an all-political result. This risks transforming a historic opportunity into a new ride. It may last long or short, but in the end the country will be at its starting point. It is to the outcome of this parable and in the light of these growing fears, of which I have left constant trace in the parliamentary acts, that I have taken the decision, suffering, not to participate in the vote, knowing well to abandon without denying it a part of the work that has seen me protagonist, and giving this choice a sense that is not of despair, but of proposal, hope and struggle. So that something can still change by recovering the furrow from which we started. [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u53	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u54	Mr President, I am sorry to have listened to Mr Quagliariello's conclusions, because I believe that the fact that he believes that he cannot vote for the further reading of the reform, of which he has been a member, if not a large part, is something that is not pleasing. But this attitude and these words that we have just heard presuppose a background. There are those who, like me, have made the reverse path and have explained, of course in general indifference, that it was no longer a question of sharing some aspects of constitutional reform, but of going to support the reasons for a politicization of this battle, which sincerely affects little or nothing to the goodness of the provision. I am not Carneade who, contrary to what Manzoni wrote, was rather well known to be the head of a school, that of distichous, philosophers so good that they were able to support the thesis and antithesis with equal value. So much so that when the good Carneade went to Rome to support both the thesis and the antithesis if Greece had to pay tributes to Rome, Cato, an expression of Roman concreteness, took it by the ear and kicked it out saying that in Rome the yes is yes and the no is no. I am not tender in assessing this reform. In my view, this kind of reform was a necessity. The sovereign determination of the indication of one of the Chambers is taken away from the people, because it seemed to me to read that the Senate is not suppressed, but that its competences are changed, and in some way the choice by the voters has been recovered; although I confess that I did not understand well what the mechanism through which citizens will indicate the 94 senators who will come here to settle the issues relating to the different competences between State and Regions. I do not share the fact that we wanted to pursue the volcano according to which, in a state with 2,200 billion euros of state debt, which still has 8,000 to 9,000 participants (which produce 45 billion euros of debt) and which has a budget that for two thirds consists of pensions, salaries and health care and for the other third from interest on the public debt, we have passed as a signal of reclamation of the politics and resistence of the political world to have abolished the salaries of 315 senators. But, apart from this aspect (everything in Italy becomes instrumental), the Renzi Government game is played on this reform. If Renzi had gone under in one of the secret ballots, as well as from the wishes of that belligerent part that he in turn ordained plots and pitfalls towards his own party secretary, as well as the President of the Council (unless we find that the cause of their misunderstandings is Denis Verdini and the AL-A Group, when this comes from a completely internal dichotomy between a President of the Council who has a more liberal vision of society and the state and old war remnants of socialism and social democracy), I said that, if this Government had gone under, we would go to the elections. Senator Quagliariello told us that, in fact, the game in the coming months will no longer be played on the goodness of the reforms, but rather on the confirmation or not of this political order and on Renzi's permanence to the Presidency of the Council or on his expulsion not to the fury of parliamentary vote, but to the rage of the people. Therefore, despite this preeminent fact, which is a political fact that no longer pertains to constitutional architecture, the fact remains that we have abolished, between the two institutions, the oldest and perhaps noblest (I do not want Members of Parliament); the fact remains that the election mechanism is not clear and therefore the suffrage that the citizens express in their choice. And it remains a great failed battle of the center-right, to propose, as a moment of compensation, the direct election of the Head of State. In fact - we can turn around as we want - a democracy nouns giving the so-called sovereign people the opportunity to choose the rulers. When this fails, I do not say that there is someone who interprets the rules to make them authoritarian, but I say that there is a rushing idea of democracy, in which the direct element is the speed of decisions and not the goodness of the decisions themselves. So I can't deny myself, and I'm not going to deny it, where I say you could do much better than you did. However, when this becomes a matter of political confrontation, with a quite varied committee for the "no," which goes from the 5 Star Movement to Forza Italia (which is all to say), obviously there are forces contrary to the Government - I say to the Government of the reforms - and favorable forces. As far as I'm concerned, I'm politically on the side of those who want to reform this country and not those who want to keep it. So the political sense of the matter prevails in me. It is true that for over fifty years we have lost the good to pursue the good. All reforms can be improved. Even the one made by D'Onofrio and Calderoli, which we submitted to the Italian people and which failed, in my humble opinion it was extremely better than this, more organic and was better suited to our tradition and to our political history. However, the people are sovereign and sovereignty does not give the people infallibility. Therefore, a foolishness perpetrated, as Saint-Just said, in such a vast way becomes a wise thing and the great crimes, like the great wars that have produced millions of deaths, probably no longer become murders, but the battles of freedom or salvation of the people. With the same spirit in which Senator Quagliariello says that he cannot vote for what he voted, I am going to vote for what I did not vote for the first time, not because he changed his mind about what is the fabric of the reform, but because the times that parade before us are of a field choice: either you are with those who want to reform or you are with those who want to preserve. Between the two options, I can only choose change. [[Applause from the AL-A Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u55	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u56	Mr President, colleagues and citizens who are listening to us and watching from home, I thank you for your attention. I shall make some general comments which I have already partly made in the Commission. The first question we have to ask ourselves, in my opinion, at the time when we came to the conclusion of these work on constitutional reform, as we have already done many times for the first version of the Constitution, is: whose daughter is this reform? Whose daughter will this Constitution be? That's the real question. It is then clear that this Constitution is and will be the daughter of the conflict of interest. This is the only expression that is probably still missing from our parliamentary debate. Our Constitution, downstream of this constitutional reform, will be the daughter of the conflict of interest. And here I make a suggestion to Minister Boschi for the next reforms. A reform to be carried out in Italy could probably be to eliminate the expression: "conflict of interest". If a daughter calls a father and tells him that she has been appointed Minister of the Italian Republic, the father should probably tell her that it is incorrect, it is not fair, it is not logical, it is not moral. So this is not a conflict of interest. The proposal for a forthcoming reform that I make to the Minister is to abolish this expression and to include, perhaps in the Constitution or in some measure, that of harmony of interests. That is the expression under which this Constitution will be brought to light. Unfortunately, in order to rewrite the Constitutional Charter we should have carefully analysed the needs of our country and this has not been done. We have said that this Constitution will be the daughter of the conflict of interests and - another important element - it will be the daughter of external and clearly party interests, of a fundamentally unique party, by a majority Democratic Party. Another question that we should ask ourselves, as well as how, is also: who makes these reforms and who is completing them. Very often in recent months we have wondered whether or not this Parliament was entitled to carry out these reforms. A comparison has been made with the constituent fathers like Calamandrei, to name one. This name has been resonated several times in this House. The problem is that this reform will be carried out by an Italian political leader who, in my opinion, has perpetrated one of the biggest thefts that have ever been carried out to the detriment of the citizens. In fact, one of the reasons why the 5 Star Movement is now in this House is that Italians and citizens have been taken away from a fundamental principle, namely that of delegation, on which we have based our whole society and our civilization. The principle of delegation unites the Italian people with the citizens of New York, Tokyo, with the indigenous people of the Amazon, because our whole life is linked to the principle of delegation. At this moment all our lives are delegated, but in Italy there is only one thing that is no longer possible to delegate and it is the administration of our cities and our public life. This is because of the ruling class that is reforming the Constitution and that has taken away from us one of the founding elements of our civilization, that is, the principle of delegation. That said, in fact, we of the 5 Star Movement (not with the Democratic Party, which is still a body in the making, because it must shape itself according to the changes in the times that follow), the citizens and Prime Minister Renzi we share the same problem, that is the total absence of Parliament, and not from this legislature, but for decades. A few months ago, at a previous reading, I tried to make an account of the draft laws presented in the last legislatures, going backwards until XIII, and discovered that there are about 50,000 draft laws presented and never discussed. This brings out another paradox of our political system: I am referring to the paradox or real conflict between the electoral programme and the government programme. It is true that we are currently facing a debate that was not written in a political programme, so we are in breach of the mandate given to a certain part of this branch of Parliament. Unfortunately, another thing we have learned in these palaces is that, at such a high level sometimes institutional relations are governed by a bond made of respect for roles, institutional positions and very often nothing of this is written. Well, the lobbyists, the outside interests, the tailstrokes of the political caste have the strength to intervene on these subtle bonds. Renzi is doing just that, that is to say he intervenes with a tense leg on a fragility of the system, and this Parliament has failed to oppose this, because in this House everyone in the majority has simply tried to preserve their own interests. This is also happening in these hours, because the examination of constitutional reform takes place immediately before the renewal of the Commissions; therefore, with the usual partitioning logic: simply for two years of Vice-President in the Commission the transformation and degradation of our Constitution and our country is bartered. There has been talk very often of an authoritarian drift that will take place downstream of the reform under discussion. In my opinion, however, such authoritarian drift has already been in place for a long time, because if a city like Taranto cannot breathe a healthy air to its children, probably such drift already exists; if the citizen is daily away from the place where the fate of the cities and the nation is decided, then probably the authoritarian drift already exists; if a Parliament composed of 1,000 parliamentarians can not oppose in a strong and energetic way a reform that is the faded photocopy and badly done of the same reform ten years ago, probably the authoritarian drift already exists. If a Parliament, made up of political veterans, fails to do this, then, in my opinion, the authoritarian drift is already there. We have also lived it on our own in the various committees: for example, in the Foreign Affairs Committee we have even been asked not to table amendments to a decree-law, because they would not have been adopted. This phrase, thrown there, seemed almost normal, but it means exactly that this sense of emptying and this authoritarian drift are already present, permeate already and have already been metabolised by Parliament. On the other hand, we claim the right to table amendments and to influence Parliament's readings, because then, at the end of our mandate, as it should be, we will have to account to the citizens of our work. Therefore, by not tabling amendments and pretending that we have not even read the various laws that pass through this House, we would not be able to account to the citizens for our actions. This final statement, however, will have to be done by everyone: not just by us, but also by the majority. I shall conclude my speech by simply saying that the constitutional reform that you are going to approve, probably tomorrow, and to which we will also oppose during the subsequent referendum campaign, is an illegitimate reform, because it will determine an illegitimate Constitution, as the daughter of a cancer, which surrounds the Italian institutions and envelops the political class of this country, which is constituted by the conflict of interest, from which Minister Boschi is not exempt, but, indeed, the flag bearer. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u57	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u58	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at least in our capacity as senators, we have reached the final act of a reform process, strongly desired by the current head of the Renzi Government and the previous President of the Republic of Naples. They have the burden and the honour of being the main advocates and leaders of a reform that, if confirmed by the voters, will represent the most incisive and profound modification to the Republican Constitution of our Italian history. They must be recognized the ability to have been able to impose a constituent destiny on a legislature that certainly was not born under such auspices. The political difficulties to form a government, which followed the outcome of the vote and, above all, the decision of the Constitutional Court on the unconstitutionality of the electoral law, which defined the composition of the current Parliament, undoubtedly made it easier to predict the rapid approval of a new electoral law above any doubt of unconstitutionality and early elections. I have always recalled, at every parliamentary passage of this reform, the institutional delicacy of the situation in which we were called to express our vote and I have always asked the majority and the Government, also because of the particular nature of the context, to listen to and accept the proposals for changes of those who had no interest in boycotting the reform, instead sharing the general system, but who simply highlighted some defects and contradictions. I have tried until the last, along with so many other colleagues, to seek constructive dialogue in the general interest because I am aware that there was a wider majority in this House sincerely intending to give effect to the debate on overcoming the limits of perfect bicameralism and the inefficiencies of parliamentarism by means of a reform that was not subject to the confiscated majority of government and opposition. This approach, which today I share with Italy of the Values, has never made me adhere neither to the faction of the idolaters nor to the faction of the apocalyptic ones, nor to place among those who have always defended the text of reform, denying the existence of criticalities even where they appeared evident, nor among those who claim that such a reformer plan is a threat to democracy. I continue to believe that a more shared and lighter reform text could and should have been presented to citizens than some easily eliminated defects. We should have found the courage to do more, for example to reduce the number of Members as well in order to make the relationship between the two Houses more balanced and to further cut the costs of politics. We could have done more from the point of view of participatory and direct democracy, inserting instruments that are present in other European countries and correcting, as well as Title V, also the rule on balance of budget, as one could and should have included among the bicameral subjects equal national electoral law. But despite all the right considerations we can make about regrets and missed opportunities in the process of this law, it remains truly incomprehensible to me how technically it can be argued that the present reform represents, as has also been said by authoritative scholars, the transition from democracy to oligarchy or that it represents a threat to parliamentary democracy. I do not believe that such a negative judgment is consistent with a comparative approach. Constitution in force at hand we have two chambers that vote for the government. Both the House and the Senate therefore have a majority that supports the Premier and that binds to the fate of the government. The President of the Republic is elected after the third ballot with the quorum of the absolute majority of the members of an Assembly in which only regional delegates can take away from the majority of Government the power to elect the President autonomously. The judges of the Constitutional Court shall be elected by the Parliament in a joint sitting where the Government has a majority on its part. Instead, an independent Senate that does not vote for the government's confidence, which gradually renews itself in its components and which has on some matters, including the revision of the Constitution, the same legislative power as the Lower House, is a counterweight to the power of the Premier far superior to the current Upper House. With the new Senate it will be much more difficult for a Premier to impose his constitutional reform. The reform in the vote does not reduce the guarantee bodies provided for in the current Constitution and does not increase the power of appointment and therefore control that the majority of Government holds over them. It can be said, indeed, that the reformed Constitution appears to guarantee oppositions to a greater extent than the current Charter does. Just think of the election of the President of the Republic or the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court, guarantee figures of our legal system: the reform provides for the minimum quorum of the three fifths of the voters, a threshold greater than the current text. We have been very displeased about the part relating to this rule because the possibility remained open, if there is no real sharing on the President of the Republic, of not being able to elect it because the numbers would always be lacking if the oppositions were always present in the Chamber during the elections. In other Western democracies, the Premier has the power to revoke ministers, or can dissolve the Chambers, or is protected by the institute of constructive distrust. None of this has been introduced. The powers of the Premier have not been increased and if the future President of the Council can count on a solid and faithful majority this will not depend on the constitutional reform under discussion, but rather on the hyper-majoritarian electoral law that has been approved. You, President Calderoli, have already well argued limits and inconsistencies of such electoral law; you have also made a comparison with previous laws and a comparison with the electoral systems of other countries, so you have well explained what this electoral law could possibly cause in conjunction with constitutional reform. In fact, however, we are talking about constitutional reform, so we must act here and now excluding electoral reform because, as we know, electoral law is an ordinary law, it is not a higher-ranking law and therefore it can be changed when and how it is desired by any majority that will come in the near future and in any case even in this legislature could undergo changes even in the light of any unconstitutionality that the Constitutional Court might raise on it. However, as I have already said, a constitutional reform cannot be assessed on the basis of an ordinary law, however important it may be. If the reform is approved, the Court - at the request of Members - will assess the electoral law and see if it is deemed unconstitutional. But, in any case, the current text protects minorities worse than the new Charter that we are going to vote on can do. Ultimately, if it is true that the excellent is the enemy of good, this reform is not the excellent but the good, where it responds to a parliamentary debate started with the Commission Bozzi of 1983 and which over the last thirty years has produced in the political and academic context the awareness of the need to end the experience, almost unique in the scenario of the present democracies, of the perfect bicameralism. It is good because the long transition between the first and the second Republic finally ends, giving the country an institutional system suitable for a democracy of alternation. It is good because it does this without changing the form of government in our country, with prudence, in line with the choice of the constituent Fathers. It is good because it knows how to take note, as for Title V, that by reforming you can also make mistakes but that you can evaluate a reform only if it is tried. Therefore, we in Italy of the Values are convinced that a Constitution is alive if we also have the courage to reform it. We are convinced that the present generation has the right to be called upon to contribute to a renewed Charter of Fundamental Rights. And if this reform isn't the best, it's good. We want the citizens to be able to speak through a referendum on this text, to be informed and that the debate does not turn into a plebiscite on the Prime Minister. Instead, we want to invite voters to fully understand the importance of their choice. And we will do so with the intellectual awareness and honesty of those who recognize the merits and limits of reform and will not make electoral propaganda about our Constitution. [[Applause from Senator Molinari]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u59	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u60	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Finocchiaro, who worked in three sessions, the first with the collaboration of Senator Calderoli, as co-rapporteur, and then alone. A delicate, ungrateful, not simple work that she has done with a sense of the institutions. I shall just comment on the point that I do not like very much, or that I do not like it at all, about this reform, about the law of stability and about the budget law. I think reform is indispensable, but the problem is not to overcome monocameralism in order to make more laws. If anything - and President Calderoli knows this better than anyone - the Italian Parliament has made too many laws. We have too many, much more than all the democratic countries with which we confront each other. Calderoli as Minister tried to eliminate some, but in reality we are full of laws; some, say white, others say if not black, grey more or less clear. One aspect that we should try to improve and which, in my opinion, this reform does not intervene, is therefore the budget law. The main problem in our country is the public debt and the economic situation. The Renzi Government is certainly a decision-making government: I often don't like what it decides, but it still decides. But we see that the thing on which it has less ease, on the contrary it has much difficulty and on which it has obtained nothing is the cut in public spending. In fact, the law of stability now provides for two readings and the reform provides for the new Senate to have a say. As I said the first time that the Senate has focused on this matter, I would have liked us to have copied England, where the budget law comes as it is: either we vote on it or we do not vote on it. The compensations and agreements within the majority are made first, then, once the game is closed it goes on like this and I think that for our country it would have been very important if we had reiterated that the government had to have more power. Personally, in fact, I do not complain that the government has too much power but that it has too little in economic matters, because I think that being able to decide and have an address, being able to mediate first and then play the game would have been an extremely positive thing. It has not been done, because obviously the will of the majority of Parliament did not go in this direction and I think it is a missed opportunity. My concern is that we will move forward with the current system, which is well summed up by a fact: Parliament adopts the law of stability either immediately before Christmas holidays or, as has happened from time to time, immediately after and a few days later, perhaps not even a few days later, we approve the decree-law of a thousandprorogates, which actually represents an additional way of spending money and what has not been done with the law of stability integrates it with that decree-law. Here, I think this is an opportunity that Parliament has lost. Finally, I would like to make one final point. I will not vote in favour of this measure, but I do not agree with my colleagues who do not vote to tear their clothes apart, because I am strongly confidant in the Italian people and the law that we will approve tomorrow will be put to referendum. I would like to make it clear that it will not be subject to a referendum by courtesy of the Government, but because it provides for Article 138 of the Constitution. The law will be subject to the scrutiny of the citizens since I doubt, I do not think so, and I can foresee that there will not be a two-thirds majority tomorrow. I am sure that Italians are intelligent people and I, who am old and I lived the referendary era of the 1970s, in which the majority of government was defeated and those who supported the thesis that then won were minority in the country, I mean the following. First of all, I ask the President of the Republic of Mattarella, who is the guarantor of the Constitution - and I am sure he will do so - to ensure that the referendum takes place under conditions whereby the Italian people are able to express themselves freely. I trust that information will do its duty, which is to inform Italian citizens and citizens of what is happening so that everyone is informed of the facts. I hope that the RAI Monitoring Commission and AGCOM will do their duty, and that is to ensure that the radio and television system informs them in a balanced manner, giving voice to those who will be in favour and to those who will be against them, and allowing everyone to express their arguments seriously. Then the Italian citizens will decide. If the Italian citizens approve this reform, it means that the reform will be democratically recognised and will become operational and if they do not vote for it - and I hope they do not vote for it - everyone will assume their responsibilities and Parliament will start working again, because the law governing democracy is to respect the will of the people, to adapt to it and to behave consistently. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u61	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u62	Mr President, we have reached the final moment when our Constitutional Charter is about to undergo a fierce attack on the part - I would say - of a power group. Some might think that by power group I mean a political group, but that is not the case. A power group is also seeing it in these days in the newspapers; the news is disturbing: from P2 we have moved to P3. Well, we cannot leave our Constitutional Charter to these power groups. Having said that, it seems a distant thing, and instead our Constitutional Charter speaks of us, of the citizens; therefore we cannot leave the future of our children, that is, Italian citizenship, future and current European citizenship, in the hands of these power groups. Because that's what I'm saying. Let us start with a concept included in our Constitutional Charter: sovereignty belongs to the people. We need to focus on this sentence. Of course, someone could dwell on what follows this sentence, which exercises it (...) within its limits, etc., but the limits cannot be included only in order to limit, precisely, sovereignty; sovereignty must be expressed in a broad, total way. Those people came from a time when those who reasoned freely and could be killed, killed or imprisoned; well, those who reasoned this way gave us the opportunity to read their thoughts through this Constitutional Charter. The Constitutional Charter, therefore, we must not imagine it as something abstract, although, of course, at the time we talk about it, someone might say that it is a piece of paper; it is true, it is a piece of paper, but we must go beyond it. Whoever wrote that piece of paper lived it, and asked us, future generations - and we will ask others - to be responsible, so that those concepts could be widely expressed and rooted in society. I wonder, then: we have not even been able to apply it fully and now what do we want to do? Since we cannot fully implement it - and it is Parliament's fault - we are doing so in a way that we are stifling Parliament. And no, that's not the problem, also because - we all know and who has been here for 20 years and more knows it better than us - the government has now taken total power and the balance of powers has skipped. Popular sovereignty was expressed through that balance of powers enshrined in the Constitutional Charter; once the Government totally blew up this balance through an excess of regulatory activities at the expense of popular sovereignty expressed through parliamentary representatives, it also blew up the possibility for the parliamentarians to bring back the popular needs within the function and the legislative body. What did all this involve? As I said, there was an imbalance wanted by someone, through the explication of the executive power that overthrew the legislative power. This forced our Constitutional Charter, which many people in this House, even in the past, have kept silent. I believe that those who have allowed such a thing have certainly violated constitutional requirements. Of course, someone could tell me that, in the event that the legislative government goes beyond the constitutional dictates, there is Parliament going to rebalance. How and through what does this do? Through the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which could say that a decree-law is unconstitutional. However, the Constitutional Affairs Commission is nothing more than an image of the Government. Today we are faced with an electoral law on the basis of which the numbers and thresholds laid down in the constitutional reform have also been established in order to do or not to do some things. So, it's really freaked out. At this point, when we no longer have the possibility of a parliamentary body free from the government, this short circuit has been created. The failure to function is therefore not due to the perfect bicameralism, but precisely to an ultraactivity of the Government that has unbalanced the powers of the State. Having said that, I return to the issue of popular sovereignty which, while respecting the limits of the laws and the Constitution, is certainly expressed also through equality. Can we say that equality of citizens is guaranteed when the State does not remove the cultural and economic obstacles which do not allow everyone to express themselves freely? We are in the context of an unfulfilled Constitution: our constituent Fathers have given us something that we, rather than going to complete with respect for their thought, are about to upset. I have heard someone in this House talking about this reform, of course, talking about it, being part of the majority, in a positive way, arguing that, through this reform, the state is being modernised. But in reality, if we take a step back in time, but maybe even three or four, the centralization of powers is not modernity, because we are going back in time instead. Is that what Puglia says? No, I'm not saying that. Perhaps I would not even be able to say that; other colleagues have also said so. This is what Mr Calderoli himself said, which very often has a different political view from mine. However, we must acknowledge Mr Calderoli, who is currently presiding over the House, who always takes up reflections on institutional and constitutional regulations and offers "cheeses" that can make every Member of Parliament think well. I quote Mr Calderoli for the moment, but we can mention other colleagues, even those not present in the Chamber, of the lawyers and thinkers who have made us reflect with the numbers, going objectively to present us with a future structure of state organs, composed of the electoral law that will be and with the current constitutional reform, presented very clearly as something that is governed by a few. I started by saying that we absolutely do not want to leave the Italian State in the hands of a P3, and therefore the circle closes. However, once the circle has closed, this closure can only be reopened through an act of force that will probably exercise our children. Because the years will pass and it will be understood that, in practice, that system is suppressing the popular prerogatives, the sovereignty of the people. There will no longer be a total expression of the people and those who, by now, have taken root in every institutional and state body will no longer allow the expression of popular sovereignty in a full manner and, therefore, the people will have to make an act of force. Is that what we really want? In fact, what do those who will vote for this reform want? I have already made an accusation, and I repeat: I will accuse all those who will vote for this reform, when tomorrow we will be elderly and we will see our great-grandchildren or grandchildren get killed to give us back our freedom. Mr President, I believe that, as I said, we have now reached the final act. Sometimes, though, we have to hope for man. There may be a whisper of conscience. There is the possibility, perhaps, that those who are following this reform, and do so knowing that it is the absolute evil for the Italian future, must do so for party and team obligations; so it may be that thinking again can rethink it. I'm also worried about something else. How can this reform be blocked when Parliament fails to do so, so that motion of conscience cannot express itself? The people will have to think about it through the referendum. But if there has been a reform of the RAI that will allow the government to take full power of the media, at this point I worry: because once again I think we are going to give power to few. To you who will vote for it, even if you think "but in the meantime I'm fine, I go ahead, then I can forget what I've done," I say that history will write your name in the black annals, and I really hope not even red blood shed by our grandchildren to regain that freedom that with this constitutional reform is going to be undermined. We had made proposals, I think quite reasonable precisely in relation to equal bicameralism. We had also proposed a reform: a bicameralism also diversified - but that remains bicameralism - with the possibility of complete reduction of real parliamentary costs. So, 50 percent less senators and 50 percent less MPs. It's not like you go on TV and you say, We reduce the parliamentarians and only in this No. Or you go on TV and you say, "We abolish the Senate." No. One thing, however, is about to be abolished: the vote. So what are they abolishing? People's sovereignty, because it is expressed by the vote (and we return to what we initially said). Mr President, I can think of, and a little smile (but bitterly), the many words that are said on TV and that have continued to be said in the last national election campaign: "We must give the people more participation, to pursue the common good," they are slogans and that's all, because in fact, in votes, you vote anything but participation in the people. Instead you are taking away the prerogatives of the citizen by removing a vote, reducing popular sovereignty. We will have a Senate of people appointed by the Regional Councils and a Chamber of Deputies which is overly attributed to a single party. So this is really something we have to fight. This is really the time for the destruction of Italian democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u63	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u64	Mr President, I would like to thank the few Members present. It is normal that we are few, because we are now at the final straight of this "schiform." We are all there, while you, who proposed it, are not there; so something is wrong. This empty Parliament is in fact delegitimized, because it has been delegitimized by the Constitutional Court itself, so none of us is legitimate here. Yet you have committed yourselves to constitutional reform, that is to reform that system that does not consider you to be legitimate. We must remember this every time, because it is an absurd logic that we must tell the citizens. We had no right to do this reform. What reform is that? It is a reform made by a Parliament that is no longer even representative of the political forces in the country. The 5 Star Movement, thanks to a Porcellum law, has touched a much lower representation than it would have to reflect the wishes of the citizens. It is a reform that, in addition to being illegitimate, is also ignoble, ganghered, illogical, misspelled, misspelled, misconceived; it is a reform that is born from this Parliament, so it is worthy of this Parliament. We hear that it is the reform of the Senate, that is, the reform that will abolish the Senate. It is not true, citizens, that it is not the reform of the Senate: the Senate will not be abolished, we must remember it; the whole machine will still be standing and will be populated by regional councillors appointed by the parties. You wanted it this way because in the Regional Councils you have the majority and the 5 Star Movement is still not there. So this will be a Senate without the 5 Star Movement; it is your only goal with regard to the Upper House. We, as Senator Puglia recalled, have made many beautiful proposals. Another excuse to remove this House is that of reducing the number of Members of Parliament. Let us then take two accounts: we have more than 600 Members, there will be 100 senators here and, with more than 700 Members, we remain Parliament with the highest number of Members of Parliament in Europe. So, from a numerical point of view, nothing will change at all. The 5 Star Movement had proposed to halve the number of MPs, who from about 1,000 would become 500, and to halve their salaries. So at one stroke, by accepting our proposal, you would have reduced the costs for Members by a quarter. So we debunk the two great lies of our Premier, who already calls himself Premier, because he knows that this reform is nothing more than a false abolition of the perfect bicameralism, which will turn into a de facto premierate. So what is it? It is not even a federalism, because in reality we will have a Chamber of Regions that does not understand well what will have to do. Regional councillors will have to continue to be regional advisors and then, paradoxically, they should also deal with European matters and follow the ordinary legislative process. It is not clear what the new High House will do, nor what objectives it will have. Let us remember that 70% of the new laws now come from the European Union. These poor 100 regional councillors will have parliamentary immunity and therefore, presumably, they will all be investigated or condemned first, second or at any degree we can imagine, because in the regional councils we have these kinds of people. We will therefore have 100 regional advisers of dubious morality, who will have to deal with regional issues and European issues. Here we come to the great point and the great lie of this reform. They say it's done to speed up the process of the laws. But we have said so many times that the laws, whenever you want, go very fast. I remember that the Boccadutri, when she came to this House, was faster than the light. He made a shuttle between the House and the Senate, and you've all given up on taking action to pocket your money. So, whenever you want, the laws are very fast, they're not slow, that's not the problem. Secondly, if 70% of the laws come from the European Union, the logic would have suggested strengthening the transposition of European rules, for which we are very often in breach, because we are unable to transpose them. So why do we want to speed up the process of ordinary laws when, in fact, we should speed up European laws? Not only that, we are not even able to participate in the formation of European laws because our Parliament, in fact, does not deal with European issues. We saw how the bail-in thing ended. Maybe, though, you took care of it there and you fixed your cabbages by transposing the European law as it was most convenient for the father of the "constitutive mother," let's call it the "constitutive grandfather." Another major flaw in this reform is that - as we have said - it is a reversal of the form of government and of the balance between legislative and executive power. In fact, this change took place earlier because it is a reform of all governmental origin with which the Government imposed on Parliament modalities and times. Premier Renzi, even, tells us on television that he grants the Italian citizens the referendum; we can see that the Constitution has not even read it, as well as wanting to change it, because the Italian citizens are entitled to the referendum. It is their right to express their views on this constitutional reform. Do you introduce simplicity into the shuttle between the House and the Senate? No, because, if we read it, the approval of ordinary and constitutional laws becomes much more cumbersome and complex. So, it's a huge mess. What, then, is this reform? We have said this several times: it is the combination between constitutional reform and Italicum; it is an absolute premiere where those who will have the minority party, who will have a quarter of the votes, will have the majority prize and will be able to govern and legislate in an ordinary and constitutional way. Attention: we are amending the second part of the Constitution, but it will also influence the first because this Parliament of nominations and illegitimates will then have all the ability to modify the first part of the Constitution, as the great powers of JP Morgan have long asked us, who told us that this Constitution is not good because it is anti-fascist. I say then that if someone does not like this Constitution because it is anti-fascist, it means that it is a fascist. There is no doubt about that. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let's get back to the project. We have already spoken in the Commission, at first and second readings, and we have always said this: this is a project born from P2, by Licio Gelli. It's a Mason project. You were teasing us by saying that we are conspiracy and that there is no Freemasonry and no Licio Gelli. But now comes to the honor of the chronicles that the "constitutive mother" has a "constitutive father" - therefore, a "constitutive grandfather" - who is in great business and friendship with the P4. When you then arrive at the P38, please use it against yourself instead of going to kill the Italian people! So, you will finally free this people from your presence and all of you will happily go home. In the meantime, we hope that the people, before you arrive at the final solution, will see what you are doing and vote no in the referendum. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u65	Senator Molinari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u66	Mr President, this 2016 will certainly be an important year for the history of our country. Italy - we must never forget - has risen with the entry into force, in January 1948, of the Constitutional Charter, a set of norms and values on which a people has been recognized and which has managed to synthesize the great energies that had liberated our land from the Nazi-fascist dictatorship, allowing us at the same time to rebuild the nation from the ruins of war. The parliamentary process of the so-called constitutional reform desired by the Government, which, together with the new electoral law, will give us a new institutional structure, is coming to an end. However, it will be a upheaval, defined by this Government as the reform of reforms, which will be put back to the judgment of the sovereign people by referendum, as has been mentioned in the speeches before mine. I have already expressed at the time all my doubts about the overall system that is drawn by the combined arrangement between electoral law with a majority prize (which, it is true, is a constitutional law, the so-called Italicum) and the new Senate, and I am silent about the ways in which it has come to this point. In this last passage I cannot fail to reiterate to future memory what might arise and I really hope that it is not a Cassandra: it will be a new Parliament that will have nothing to do with the much praised balance contained in the so-called Senate of local autonomy, although present in other democracies, but something that will resemble - alas - the Senate wanted by Caesar. I fear that if this whole package passes through (reform of the Senate and Italicum), the delicate mechanism of balance between the various powers that the Constituents have left us will be in crisis. I would like to turn our bicameral parliamentary democracy (which needed reform) based on two Chambers - a facility which had its reasons in 1948 - and in which both branches played and played the same role in order to prevent a President of the Council from making himself king without considering all the political forces present in Parliament, in a sort of premierate it required another order of caution and sincerity and these absences make us doubt the flagrant goodness of certain intentions which we have also heard here. In fact, where there is such a form of government (the premierate), it was the result of a choice desired by the people, even at the cost of sacrifices and civil wars, which is why I cannot be part of the chorus of those who cry out for an undemocratic act. The criticism that I express to the overall system wanted by this Government, with an electoral law affected by residual indigestants of Porcellum (and for which, alas, also the political force with which I entered Parliament is not so sorry), stems from the fact that the majority democracy with strong premiered that would arise from the approval of this reform needs necessary new counterweights (which are lacking in the reform under consideration) in defense of the democratic system; counterweights that cannot be represented by the fig leaf constituted by the joint election of the senators and regional councillors, approved in this branch of Parliament. That is why I think it is dangerous to want to start on this path one - all in all - still a young republican democracy like ours. This hybrid reform, which sees the Senate unable to become a Chamber of Territories, will in fact worsen the relationship between central and territorial organs, in the part that affected the reform of Title V of the Constitution, with a high risk of paralysis due to the uncertain solution of certain conflicts between territorial authorities, and the ways in which it has reached this point betray even more the approximation and fears on this path. All this, in fact, should have been preceded by a broad debate between all spheres of civil society, if not by a constituent Assembly, and not imposed by the yoke of the governmental majority; but above all, it should require a clear participation of the people, at the risk that the latter might not be able to decide with awareness of its future. Here it is not the victory of a political force or the prestige of a President of the Council, but the very estate of our Republic. What will happen, in fact, if tomorrow, a political force that has not internalized in its DNA the respect of the political opponent and democratic institutions should assert itself in the country with this electoral law and with the implant that comes out of the reform of Parliament? What level of irreparability will lead to the failures caused by a political force that will conceive the affirmation in an electoral competition such as the annihilation of the enemy, perhaps in the name of not well identifiable principles and moralizing attitudes, and not as the responsibility to govern to meet the needs of the community? The crises of the regimes of a historical period that finally led us to the brink of the abyss of the codification of mass extermination and genocide are just around the corner of the recent history of humanity, as the Weimar Republic reminds us and the Jewish inability. I want to end with an inscription by Professor Martines, whose lessons I was lucky enough to attend during my university studies and which I have already mentioned in my speech during the debate on the draft electoral law. He always said that it is not true that the Constitution did not work; it is not true that it must be changed because it does not allow stability of government. This stability in Italy was not there because the party system did not allow it. And then it is the system of parties that, if anything, must be modified, not already the Constitution, which certainly did not want it as it is now and cannot therefore be held responsible for it. And this, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is the boulder that remains at the end of this operation! [[Applause from Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u67	Senator Taverna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen (especially those of our Group), I have heard a lot about this reform: we have talked about it in the Commission and we have been talking about it for more than a year now. Many things have been said. There has been talk especially of the shortcomings of this reform, which, most of the time, has come to this House without a rapporteur and therefore hardly the criticisms that have been made have been able to have an answer. I also reflected on the fact that this reform will go back to history bearing the name of the new constituent Fathers and among these there will be that of Minister Boschi, who, precisely, gives the name to this bill. And let's see how the name of a constituent Father will go down in history. The name Boschi is linked to another dark story of this country. Even constitutional reform could be called a dark affair in this country, but in this case I am talking about Bank Etruria of which the Minister is shareholder, the father is vice president, brother and sister-in-law employees. But then what will be read about this new constituent Father? The surname Boschi has become a symbol of conflict of interest, financial speculation, ad hoc decrees, rescued banks and savers sent on the pavement. The surname Boschi is related to the scam: 12,500 families cheated and 431 million euros burned. These are the new constituent Fathers. Even today in Italy we do not have a real law on conflict of interests, but this Government is concerned about constitutional reform. And although this government had proclaimed it at the time as one of its priorities and although Minister Boschi is herself in a situation of conflict of interest (it seems quite clear to us), she also participates in a role that is not secondary to a Government that has decided everything that could be decided on those four banks (in particular, on Bank Etruria). Among other things, it would appear from the ongoing investigations that that bank was perhaps not in such a disastrous condition and that it could be saved with other types of operations, but it was not chosen to do so because this Government decided that priority was a decree-law to save four banks, including Bank Etruria, it decided that the priority is to reform the Constitution of this country, it did not deal with the conflict of interests, it destroyed the work, it reformed the school in an unworthy way and this because the Italians, unfortunately (and we pay the consequences), have short memory. When they ask themselves why they are going to vote on a referendum because the Constitution is changing, they must remember what happened before that referendum was reached. Why should a government and a minister who have so far been concerned about their own interests do something good for you, you useless little citizen, who only pays taxes and doesn't need your vote anymore? Ask yourself this question and ask yourself: since they've done so much crap why should they do something good now? And then we continue to talk about the new constituent Father: Minister Boschi, whose father, Pierluigi, was part of the board of directors of Bank Etruria, but as soon as the daughter becomes Minister becomes vice president of the bank. In the afternoon of January 20, 2015, in not two hours, the Renzi Government, by decree-law, transforms popular banks into public limited companies. Who gets more money? Look at Banca Etruria, which records the best performance of the year on the stock market: plus 72.5 percent. That's what the government did. Now the government tells you that it is giving you a constitutional reform that is good for you. That Council of Ministers is told by Boschi that it is absent, as if that were enough not to mention conflict of interest. A minister who is reforming the Constitution, in clear conflict of interest, makes a decree addressed to the banks, among which there is one in which the father is vice president and she is shareholder, but she is doing something good for you by reforming the Constitution. Sure! In February 2015, Banca Etruria was stationed for a hole of three billion, but subordinated bonds were still sold to the unsuspecting and unaware savers. Bankitalia, noting the strong increasing criticalities and a disastrous situation, charges fines of 2.5 million euros to the board of directors of the bank. Pierluigi Boschi is also fined for 144,000 euros. The judgment on his miserable work reads: "deficit in the organization and internal controls, lack in the management and control of the credit, violation in the matter of transparency, omitted and incorrect reporting." This was operated in Banca Etruria, but Minister Boschi is working well. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Taverna, I remind you that we are talking about reforms, not about Bank Etruria or anything else. TAVERNA (M5S). Forgive me, who is the Minister of Reform? It is Mr Boschi, who is in a clear conflict of interest. Once this nonsense is over, a motion of no confidence will be voted on to this Government. I find myself confronted with empty benches and if you will allow me to talk about constitutional reform by virtue of who is doing this constitutional reform. After all, if I'm going to buy a pound of meat, I get home and I find worms there, it's only to the gentleman who sold it to me to run the supermarket, I send it home. This is what's happening here. The more dirty they are, the more important we give them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So, if the constituent Father had nothing to do with constitutional reform, I have a doubt: what are you doing? Are you doing constitutional reform, as Minister of Reform, or are you minding your own business? Because if he's minding his own business, he can't be of interest to the citizens. You're good. On the contrary, you are no longer there, there is no one left in this House because constitutional reforms have already been exchanged today with presidents who have met to decide which presidencies and vice-presidents were. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] They're not here because they're deciding anything else. Then I ask myself: after everything they have done to you, do you wonder why they want to reform the Constitution? In our legal system the Constitution is at the top, it is the first source from which all laws descend. These people, who voted for forty years, could not do the dirtyest things through the laws because there was a Constitution that had not made them, but others that did not pursue their own interests. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Why do they want to change it? Because then it will be easier to pass laws that will have to respect nothing but their interests. So if the Italians do not understand that today they are in the hands of people who no one has elected, that the Constitutional Court itself has reiterated that there was an electoral law not representative of this country, why are you allowing this? I wonder, as a citizen, standing outside, reading, trying to inform me and study, but why? You say that you want to overcome bicameralism and that you want to cut the costs of politics, as we also wanted: then we cut both branches of Parliament by a number of members. We allow confidence in certain matters to be voted on. We don't create a dictatorship. Why are you taking away the opportunity to vote on senators? If this does not represent your interest you must explain why it should be citizens' interest not to feel represented in the Senate and not be able to vote for it. Having said that, Mr President, it is clear that the attack we are taking is on a product, the constitutional reform, which we criticize. We will have a way, during the period that the Constitution itself allows, to explain that it will not be a pro or a counter Renzi, but it will be a we want to live in a democratic country or we want to end up in a puppet dictatorship. During that time we will explain all the reasons. What we are trying to say to this House is: do not assume a right that you do not have. Do it for yourself. Don't be the ones who go through history for destroying a country. Let's do constitutional reform. By confronting us. If we count the numbers, we can see that today the oppositions represent a percentage of Italians higher than the one that represents the majority. Why not wait for the Commissions to be elected so that they do not have this further shadow on their shoulders? Why don't you tell him to stop for a second? You can't say that! The rapporteur did not have the opportunity to tell us what this reform means because today there were no two and a half hours more available. So, ladies and gentlemen, keep the reform, hold on to Minister Boschi, hold on to the Renzi Government, but please leave this country! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u69	Senator Tarquinio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u70	Mr President, we are at the final vote on an absurd reform (of course I am referring to constitutional reform), which I criticized several times even when we Reformist Conservatives militated in Forza Italia, when Forza Italia voted in favour of this reform with the Nazarene Pact. If you will allow us, we had the courage, although we were part of a majority at that time, to disagree, not for personal or particular reasons, but only because we realized that the Constitution had been put to the wrong way. It is a reform that, without offense, I have defined demential, that does not solve any problem, but aggravates them; a reform that offends the Senate for what it represented in this country from 1948 onwards, that offends the characters that have succeeded here, of every political color, the intelligences and cultures of people (including so many constituent Fathers) who have been able to see far away and have been able to put together different positions, ideals and values, reaching an exceptional synthesis for me. Now the Constitution is put into action, claiming that this is how Italy's problems are solved; it is still intended to make this reform pass as the panacea of all the evils, even economic ones, of our country. For me it is an absurd, incomprehensible and useless thing to do in the times that have been established, so rushing; it has no meaning, as long as there is nothing different behind it. Unfortunately, today we are celebrating the last act. I hope that this will be covered by the referendum. Certainly it is easy to tell the angry Italians that we have eliminated 215 senators; it is easy to continue to say, as always, that all the evils of the country are solved by reducing the parliamentarians. If the evils of Italy were only the problems represented by 200-300 parliamentarians, I believe that our country would easily get out of the sandbox. The problem is much more: an economy that runs out; a country, characters and a policy without ideals and reference values. Today it is noted - that if you want to think about it - that from Tangentopoli to today there has been nothing in terms of ideality, values and political positions. There's absolutely nothing! It's the crisis we pay for! Nobody wonders why it's all gone. Before there were ideals and values, of whatever party they were, from right, to left, in the center: republicans, liberals, Christian Democrats, communists or extreme left. There were ideals and reference values in everyone, but today what are the values and ideals of reference? There's nothing and nothing overwhelms everything. That's what's happening. It is not that difficult, if you want to, to see it and it is not possible that there is not a minimum of awareness on the part of everyone. I also say this to the many friends I have in PD, because for me the personal and human relationship is priority over everything and it is what is often missing even in this policy: but are you really convinced that this is a reform that is good for the country? And if you're not, why do you keep voting for it? For the hope of something? I don't want to think that! For a party commitment? What do you mean? For what? With respect to fundamental values such as this, there is no party that holds, where there were still parties. The parties, which could be criticized as much as they wanted, had ideals and values of reference; then - it is a real fact - there were those who betrayed and those who did not, but there was a brake on so many things because there were those values and those ideals. Today, if we move from the centre to the far left, we continue to vote for 5,000 people. At that time, if you changed parties you had closed, because you were appreciated in that context and for those ideals and values. Today what are ideals and values? The populisms? Individualism at all costs? That is the reality. Is it possible not to understand that the previous fifty years had dark sides, but also so many positive sides? Is it possible not to maintain what is good was built, including this Constitution? Upgrade it to changing times, but do not destroy this House. What did the perfect bicameralism mean like it used to be? We are destroying the very essence of the state and the political fact is that we no longer know whether we are in a parliamentary or other republic and it is serious for the democracy of this country. The question is: is there still a parliamentary republic? Or surreptitiously replaced her? We're destroying local autonomy. Does this direct election look so good to you? But do we really believe that in the municipal councils, in the regional councils themselves there is the democracy of once or dialogue and listening to the opinions of others becomes a crime? As some other colleagues have said, it is possible that there is no provision, since I arrived in this Senate, compared to which an amendment of any political party has been accepted, because the government is just that? Is it possible that someone thinks that they are God and others are no one and so they are not even able to express opinions? On this constitutional reform we had also proposed a serious thing, ready to digest also the non-electivity of the senators: the infrastructural federalism. Equal surgeries all over the country. That was also said no. That's crazy! We would also have digested direct non-election, in this reform that I consider absurd, putting even 50 directly elected senators, but at least we elected them: we gave title to the senators. And I repeat this again: calling the Senate what will be born, if this law passes the referendum, is an offense to what was the Senate, a chamber that has always produced much more than the Chamber of Deputies. The Senate in its history has had the best intelligence. The Senate has executives and officials far superior to those of the Chamber of Deputies in terms of preparation and quality. It's history of this country! What are we gonna do? The Senate. And, even for what's now a raging fashion, if you're 60, go home, if you're 18, you're great. It's crazy. It is not that the constituents had set the limit of forty years for no reason, it is that there is a different maturation: at twenty years you are in one way to forty years in another and this applies to all. But it doesn't reflect, it goes on. Let's move on, sending this media message: we have eliminated over 200 senators without affecting where it has to be engraved, where it would be necessary for everyone. It doesn't really hack. That is why we will continue to vote against this bill, as we have always done and do not in terms of obtuse and blind opposition, but because we think this reform is crazy! I hope that the Italian people will wake up and decide to observe with serenity what is being done and what is being voted on. What answer is that? Savings? Who are these gnomes sitting here? And do what? Will they be regional advisors? I don't know. They're gonna be senators? I don't know. What do they have to do? I just can't figure it out. In fact, we have created another false mechanism, such as the reform of the Provinces, which has been a total disaster: we have decided to close it. We had to say that we would abolish the Provinces, then enter a limbo, in which we debate and, in the meantime, the citizens always pay. The Provinces stand up for certain competences, even if we abolish them with this constitutional reform, and do not have the financial means to address these competences and give answers to the citizens. This is unbelievable. The staff had to be relocated, but this does not happen because the Government does not do its part, the Regions do not do their own and the poor people (the honest people and not the delinquents). This is the real fact, this is the real discussion. The electoral law comes later, it's a consequence. We have also always voted against the draft electoral law, although we are still a majority, because it is a monster. Those who are currently chairing the Assembly are right: the Porcellum was the most clean compared to the current electoral law. We are perhaps forgetting the concept of democracy and that of the majority, or, in the name of so-called governability, minorities - but true minorities! - must they have an absolute majority in this Parliament? Does that sound like democracy to you? This is crazy! As Senator Calderoli has rightly pointed out, such a system would have been possible when there were only two groupings and, therefore, those who won the elections had at least a percentage of votes close to 48%, so in the end the majority prize was relative. Today is exactly the opposite. Does that seem like democracy to you? The serious reflections to make are these, without offense to anyone. For once we try to reason as citizens, saying what we feel and what we see. This is the real fact, as I say to those who are in the government. Are you really convinced that you are depositaries of the Word? Do you really think you're God? Is it possible that you cannot imagine that someone in here - a senator belonging to any group - is unable to make a corrective assessment or amendment? Or do you imagine that every amendment is intended to undermine your reform and not improve its text? The role of the real and serious opposition is to try to improve the legal texts, but it cannot be faced with a majority that says of "no", a priori, about everything. We're full of trust issues and we're not arguing anymore, because it's no use. This is the destruction of democracy! The same thing happened for this constitutional reform, because nothing was allowed to be touched. She would have been miserable, majesty! It is not possible, my lords: democracy is a serious matter. You can lose it and, when you lose it, win it back is difficult and today you can lose it even in a more devious way, because before you lost it with the dictatorships, that there were and you could see, while today there are the dictatorships that you do not see. What do you think, the so-called strong powers are those that caused the collapse of the First Republic - beyond the general judgment that can be given on it - because, at the end of the day, with all the defects, the protagonists of that Republic were not slaves to the powers that currently determine the choices in this country and in Europe. This is the real fact: they had dried up and had to be cut down. On the other hand, very calmly, it would be enough to see where they started and where they started the various things, still today, in order to understand who determines the political scene of this country: it is certainly not us and it is certainly not the people, but certainly some media, representing the Gotha of Italian and European finance. That's the real thing. We said he must govern the people, listening to everyone. A real government listens to everyone, majority and minority. It is difficult: democracy is a continuous exercise, which is conquered every day, but we must have the patience to confront ourselves and to understand, without being biased, without being biased. You can't rule by doing the fatious: it doesn't do any good because the fatiosity will generate other fatiosities. I am sure that in this country, where the referendum should pass, if it were to change the guard again, we would see another constitutional change and the country will fall into the comics, because those who govern change everything. Whoever comes will change this electoral law, which is wrong, and I hope that he will do so seriously, looking at the concept of democracy and the concept for which it is not possible to give minorities the power to govern and to be represented, beyond the consensus that the Italians have wanted to attribute to them. You cannot take 25 or 30 percent of the votes and reach 60 percent of the seats. It is not possible, it is something monstrous, which creates imbalances everywhere, in the context of this nation. This is the real fact and on this position, of reality, of ideality and of beliefs we continue to say no, without any will to be presumptuous. We have always been constructive and want to build, but in the face of the arrogance of the "no" to everything, in the face of the way we stand towards those who demand more democracy and more seriousness, sincerely our "no" becomes stronger and will certainly be based, as far as I am concerned, in a serious battle for a "no" to the referendum. The interesting thing is to do this battle, which I hope to win together with so many others, but what is important is to have a clear conscience, both for the reform and for the battle that I will go to do, because first of all it counts one's conscience, in relation to what is considered necessary for the common good of this country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u71	Mr President, the previous speakers have explained in detail the problems behind this reform, which is not only written with their feet - and we will move from the most beautiful Constitution in the world to the most illegible - but it is difficult to implement because it presents technical problems, and only after that you will notice. But to all of you who will vote "yes" this is not of interest. You are so concerned to bring home the result that few people have carefully read the reform. But know that your children and grandchildren will ask you to account. And not just them, I hope. In these months, we of the 5 Star Movement have tried to explain to you the reasons that strongly urge us to say "no" to this reform and, personally, I am tired of talking to you. By now you are deaf, you have lowered your head to the Chief, you are not even able to understand and therefore I will tell you my thoughts in the form of a story. One day, in a beautiful country called Italy, a king, King George, who lived in Palazzo del Quirinale, decided that it was time to follow the advice of JP Morgan, that is, to put hand to Italian democracy. In fact, the giant responsible for the US economic crisis had expressed himself as follows: The political and constitutional systems of the South have the following characteristics: Weak executives vis-à-vis Parliaments; Weak central governments vis-à-vis the regions; constitutional protection of workers' rights. The political systems of the countries of the South, and in particular their Constitutions, adopted following the fall of fascism, have a number of characteristics that seem unsuitable to favour the greater integration of the European area. Who knows what integration he was talking about? But let's go back to this modern fairy tale. Together with some friends, including Mr. Mario Draghi, current President of the European Central Bank, with whom he fraternally met at Bar Three Eyes, convinced that democracy could hinder their plans for a new world order based on banking and financial interests, King George decided to disband the President of the Council in office and crown another. Not just anyone... needed someone who could continue their work. They then organized, all very happy and enthusiastic about the project to be concluded, the new coronation. The chosen was Mr. Mario Monti, also very friendly with those strong powers that in Europe make good and bad weather and therefore willing to listen and carry out the project. To insert it into the Italian political landscape, however, it needed a clever move. "How can this be done?" asked the king. That's when King George had enlightenment. He would have appointed him senator for life for his merits (future or past is not given to know) and then he would have entrusted him with the constitution of the new Government of the Italian Republic. Finally the deal was made, the project could go on. Mr Monti put himself at work and first destroyed Italy's economic autonomy, including the balance of the budget in the Constitution. A first step towards the new world order had been taken. Now, however, democracy, the power of the citizens, had to be weakened. "What could we do?," asked the friends of the Three Eyes bar. What can lead a citizen to lower his head in front of his or her rights? The hunger, the hunger, screamed Mr. Monti from the rear. Here's the solution: he needed to starve the people. Mr Monti, then, completed the Fornero reform: raising the retirement age (i.e. less generational turnover resulting in less work for young people) and hunger pensions. The game was done. But time was running and, despite all the efforts made, the plan for the new world order was not over. The time had expired, the elections were looming and democracy in Italy had not yet been defeated. Friends at Three Eyes' bar consulted each other and after various discussions they decided to rely on the case, not before giving him directions on the right path. The elections for the renewal of Parliament were stimulant on the one hand, but worrying on the other. A new political force had emerged, the 5 Star Movement, made up of citizens from all over Italy to enter the Palaces and defeat injustices. No one knew them, they were all censored and with their hands free. The Three Eyes coven began, therefore, to wonder: "How can we stop these free and non-blackmailable citizens?" Another enlightening idea of King George: "They must remain unknown, no one must speak of it, they must not exist for anyone! No publicity about their existence, as if they were extraterrestrial! The day of the election came, and, despite all the obstacles, the most voted symbol was precisely the 5 Star Movement. The strategies implemented by King George's group had not been effective, the citizen had won. Then King George, realizing that he could not entrust the government of the country to these free, fairy-tale citizens who claimed freedom and equal rights for all, in agreement with the Democratic Party (the one who should have defended the rights and not the criminals) entrusted the assignment to a young man who seemed promising, the apprentice Enrico Letta. Enrico had worked hard for a year, but he didn't have that grit, the desire to appear, the desire to command that he needed at that moment. We needed someone smarter, more crazy. Someone willing to do anything to look like King George and override him in the business rooms. It was precisely during those months that Matteo Renzi, who had been wandering around institutions in search of power, had come to Rome as the leader of the Democratic Party. King George saw hope: perhaps the right man had arrived. After a brief interview, the assignment was entrusted to the new worker apprentice. In the new court there were also two young maids, Miss Boschi and Miss Madia, who, with childish air and full of grace, should have taken care of the reforms and brought their king to the maximum power, without intermediaries and counterweights. The two bridesmaids also offered guarantees: they frequented the same environments as King George, especially Miss Boschi, who, with her family, frequented businessmen and bankers. Safer than that! The court settled and began to carry on the project of King George, who, all pleased, observed his new court at work. There was also Captain Poletti who, with a sponge stroke, took away the rights to the productive plebe. There was no lack of twists. There were apprentices who wanted to destabilize the project and the worker judge, who silently and passively executed the order, while Miss Boschi, with the likeness of the fairy, often went to the palace to ask for an act of faith towards his king, the act of trust. And let's not talk about ambitious courtiers, jumping from one side to the other to join the court of the new king. The project wanted by King George was now finished. The new world order had been established where the Italian people would no longer be sovereign, but subject to an oligarchy in the hands of dishonest speculators. The horror story, luckily, doesn't end here. For us in the 5 Star Movement, simple citizens in the institutions, today only the penultimate battle in Parliament is closed in this House. The war is not over. Another long battle awaits us, that of the confirmation referendum, with which, together with the free Italians, we can finally put the happy until the tragic Italian history, voting compactly no to the "schiform" renziana. I wanted to tell you a little bit about what has been happening in the last few years in a fairy tale formula. I often read in the newspapers some statements of the Democratic Party in which we still insist on talking only about savings, or others like that - I took a note, because with you you you have to be careful about what is said and done - your mayor of Pesaro, Matteo Ricci - I think the name works badly - that has already started the campaign for the referendum to vote yes with the slogan: If you want to change, vote yes. If you want everything to stay the way it is, including senators' salaries, vote no. It's a very clear choice. So, if this is your referendary campaign, know from now on that you're already finished, because we're gonna destroy you one by one. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u72	Senator Amidei is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my speech in this House by saying that constitutional reform should represent a substantial change in the rules of democracy. And it's not random to use parole, because that's not how it's happening. The text of the Constitutional Reform, which has arrived in the Senate armoured by the majority, is once again an expression of the Democratic Party's will not to dialogue with the opposition, to rise above the parties and to decide the fate of the Republic at will. To amend the Constitution is an event in which all political forces must have the opportunity to participate, a moment where ideas and aggregation meet, where dialogue between the interlocutors gives positive results and does not turn into a political conflict. In the beginning Forza Italia decided to sit at the table of the constitutional reform process, having in its heart the most sincere seriousness to change the rules for the good of the country. He decided to cooperate, to seek everyone's cooperation for the success of the reforms. The Constitution, as we know, is the basic written legislative act, which defines the nature and discipline of the organization of the supreme state organs and the proclamation of a series of rights and duties in which a people is recognized. The main arguments contained in the constitutional reform, which concern the change of the Senate and consequently the fate of each senator, are: the nature of the Senate (Article 1, amending Article 55 of the Constitution), the composition of the Senate (Article 2, amending Article 57 of the Constitution) and its legislative functions (Article 10, amending Article 70 of the Constitution). The changes made to Articles 55 and 70 of the Constitution have diminished, with the changes made by the House, their legislative functions and not only. In fact, Article 1 of the Constitutional Bill, which amends Article 55, provides for a strong revision of the functions proper to the two branches of Parliament: differentiated bicameralism. Article 10, which replaces Article 70 of the Constitution, differentiates the powers that Chamber and Senate can exercise in the formation of laws. Two types of procedure are defined, bicameral and monocameral; there will also be a specific monocameral procedure with a reinforced role of the Senate for those only laws that will apply the supremacy clause (Article 31, which amends Article 117 of the Constitution). With regard to Article 2, there is a lack of legitimacy for the way in which individual senators are elected: 95 senators elected by regional councils and autonomous provinces, plus 5 senators appointed by the President of the Republic. The number of elective senators decreases significantly, from 315 to only 95; in addition, direct popular voting is replaced by a second grade election. It is necessary to return to a direct election of the senators; it is evident that Article 1 of the Constitution is violated in relation to the election of the second degree of the Senate, where the people, the holder of sovereignty, have the right to exercise their vote in favour of the chosen candidate. The new amended text shows a clear difference between the two Chambers in numerical terms: 100 senators versus 630 Members, who will have a greater weight in the possible choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. In fact, the first paragraph of Article 37, which amends Article 135 of the Constitution, intervenes in the matter of the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court. Article 135 is reworded in order to provide for the new composition of the Constitutional Court: fifteen judges, one third of whom are appointed by the President of the Republic, one third by the supreme ordinary and administrative magistrates, three by the Chamber of Deputies and two by the Senate. A clear division since the current appointment of the five constitutional judges, who are elected by Parliament in common sitting. There is a desire on the part of the majority in government to leave the Senate in limbo, without giving it a precise task, nor an institutional lease. There will be an unelected Senate, composed exclusively of regional councillors - we know there will also be 21 mayors - where they will continue to increase the power of territorial lobbyists or corporate lobbyists. One could think of diversifying the powers between the House and the Senate in another way; one could guarantee the Senate a role as a legislative assembly with specific tasks, freed from government trust, with strong powers of control and rebalancing. In conclusion, Forza Italia believes that the Constitutional Charter must continue to be the fundamental pillar of democracy for the Italian people and the opinion on this reform is strongly opposed. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the site 'deputatipd.it' - just to tell you the confusion in which you yourselves navigate, colleagues in the PD - there is talk of a simpler Italy and it is said that the new Constitution is even closer and that there will be more efficiency, less costs and more powers to citizens. Then they say: find out more. When we go to read, there are some impressive inaccuracies, which PD Members should also be aware of. It is even said that regional and provincial councillors will participate in the vote. Evidently they were not sufficiently clear in saying that, when it comes to provincial councilors, reference was probably made to the two autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano. Then they go on to say that the Provinces will be eliminated. There is, therefore, such a contradiction that provincial councilors should vote for when the Provinces themselves move towards elimination according to the Delrio reform. We are talking about cuts in politics and more powers for citizens. But where is this? What are the policy cuts? Let's say as long as it's a mockery of citizens. If people are to believe that the Regional Councillor is not being paid as a senator, we must also tell them that he is being paid as a Regional Councillor, that it is not a saving in the allowance because we throw away the allowance. We steal the compensation to the citizens because it will not do the Regional Councillor good, nor the senator good. And how do we think to say: "more powers for citizens" when, at some point, with the new electoral law, where the list and not the coalition is awarded, we are faced with the fact that the list with a 30% that could win will have a Bulgarian majority in Parliament, but that it is not representative of the citizens and does not respect the power of the citizens? In fact, if we consider that about 60% of the population is going to vote, we will be facing about 20% of the popular representation. Does this mean giving more powers to citizens? Dear colleagues and members of the majority, is this the reform that will have to turn our Constitution around? Alas, no. You missed a great chance. Unfortunately, we are faced with a reform that is ill-formed, reform that is not shaped and reform that is different from the real demands and the real powers that citizens should have and do not have. Ladies and gentlemen, think about this: this is not the right way. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u74	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagliari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u75	Mr President, I believe that at this moment reflection must start from fundamental concepts. Democracy has been highly evoked in this House, but from an etymological point of view what is democracy but the government of the people, if not the instrument through which a community is governed by its members? This model, that is democracy, is realized in many ways (there is assembly democracy, there is participatory democracy) and it is obvious that representative democracy is also an instrument through which we try to give a rule so that a community can be governed and respect it can have directions, decisions and solutions of problems. In this context, it is clear that representative democracy is either strictly proportional or a model that seeks solutions for a country to be governable, and this is the real challenge facing those who want and care to protect democracy today. In this House, during these hours, we have heard statements, which must be respected as all are within the meaning of Article 21 of the Constitution, but which are little constructed with respect to the need to govern a country and to give it the Government, the alternation of opinions, projects and solutions. In fact, when in this debate the solution that emerges from the speeches is that we must not find a method by which there are those who govern and can govern, it is clear that we are not concerned about the fate of the country or the need to govern it, but simply to maintain a structure in which, since no one can govern, everyone can do so, which represents the failure of the last twenty years and the essential requirement of our democracy at this time. It is absolutely clear to us in the Democratic Party that, with all the delicacies that emerge from the solutions that are proposed, we must give Italy a system in which the government of the institutions is possible and that there are those who can govern. In this House we have come to the paradox that those who voted for this reform at first reading today say that constitutional reform must not be done. In this debate, at first reading and today at second reading, there are no alternative solutions, there are no alternative proposals; we are always at the mockery of the proposal that has been drafted and voted by the House, but a different solution has never emerged; the solution has always emerged to prevent something from changing, to maintain the status quo. I believe that for some political forces there is a clear contradiction with the programmes announced during the electoral campaigns, but also an inability to put themselves at stake with respect to a political framework that demands the ability to face a reform of the institutions that until a few months ago no one denied had to be done. No one, in fact, denied that bicameralism had to be overcome; no one denied that there was a problem of modifying the current bicameralism because it did not work, because there was too much slowness, because there was no adequate level of representativeness of the system. Today that a solution has been sought (through which there is only one Political Chamber, one Chamber that has the legislative function, and there is another that represents the territorial institutions), we are faced with the denial of the possibility of discussing a model, the denial of the evaluation of the model in its specific. I therefore believe that it should be made clear that, with regard to the forces that voted on this reform and that will vote on it tomorrow at the time of the final vote, there is, however, the assumption of responsibility to give this country a model of representation at parliamentary level that best represents the evolution that our system has had. In fact, I believe that the representative Chamber of territorial institutions, that is, the Senate, is an idea that is suited to the evolution that has had our institutional model in the substantial dynamics of relations between Regions, Provinces and Municipalities; this in highlighting the need for a greater protagonism of territorial institutions, but at the same time in detecting the need for a balance between these different levels of representation and protagonism; the need to have places where this confrontation does not simply pass through ideological dynamics or through appeals for conflict of attribution before the Constitutional Court, but also through places where there is a serious confrontation that can lead to the elaboration and definition of addresses and this can happen within the Senate as well as redefined. To rethink also the role of the Senate in the terms in which it emerges from the reform, thanks to the protagonism that the Senate certainly had on this level, is an attempt to modernise an institution, to re-evaluate it and to have a balance at the parliamentary level between different functions that are equally important because for the maintenance of an institutional framework, the efficiency of a system serves not only the decision-making function but also that of controlling active policies, the function of controlling the public dynamics enshrined in the reform of the Constitution. On this level I believe that the challenge before us is between those who want to try to change the system that is necessary and those who simply shout "to the wolf, to the wolf" but do not propose any different solution. (at 19:53) (Following Pagliari). It is also clear that all solutions are perfectible, but I have not seen any contributions aimed at perfecting the system. Let us look at the amendments that have been tabled, let us look at the substance of these amendments if they have proposed an alternative model and if they represent real amending proposals that improved the whole model. I believe, with all due respect to the opposition and all political forces, that this has not emerged in this branch of Parliament and that all this makes the difference between those who have assumed the responsibility to propose to the country a change of the model that did not work anymore and those who did not want to take it; between those who think that the need to save democracy is to give a ruling democracy, a democracy in which there are those who are called to carry out the function of governing and those who are called to provide an account to the electorate every five years and not to maintain a model that has shown all its limitations because the consociativism of which we have been victims for twenty years is not what this country needs. This country needs a clear, clear, coherent political dialectic that is subjected to electoral scrutiny and that assigns the role of the majority and the role of the opposition, in a dynamic that precisely because of the difficulty... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. Mr Pagliari (PD). ... of the context that must be governed, it is a dynamic that must have clear roles, clear positions, clear responsibilities. We have embarked on this path as forces of the majority, on this we will have a confrontation, a confrontation that we entrust to the popular referendum and if this is not democracy I do not know what it is called. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u76	Senator Comaroli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u77	Madam President, we are moving towards the vote on the reform of the Constitution, but it must be pointed out that it is unacceptable for us, for me, to vote in favour for two reasons: firstly for the method used and secondly for the content. As far as the method is concerned, it is clear to everyone that something is wrong. The reconstruction of this method has already been done by many in this House, and especially by President Calderoli. In the course of the previous examinations, a number of regulations and practices were forced into force, and we have all had the opportunity to see it. Someone then explains to me the urgency of approving this constitutional bill tomorrow, considering that we have three months to do so. I cannot understand the real reasons, that is to say the obvious ones because perhaps then the reason why the reform is to be approved tomorrow (ready, now, now, is urgent) is the need to hold together a somewhat occasional majority and held together by the fact that Thursday we are going to vote on the Presidencies and vice-presidents of the Commissions and whatever else. Throughout this process it is important to show that we are moving, to show that we are dynamic and to say: do you see what we do? Unfortunately, the substance of what is being done does not matter anymore. The important thing is to make people look like they're doing something. We have lost sight of the foundation, what should be the pivotal law of our system, but it does nothing, it does not matter, the important thing is to make smoke. The expression that I used before, to show that something is moving, I used it specifically because unfortunately this we do not consider a serious reform because if you go to see in the contents we find that its start was determined by affirmations become commonplaces like, indeed, the ungovernability and slowness induced by the bicameral system. How many times have we heard Renzi go on television and say: see what I am doing, I give certainty to the government and give speed to the process of approving the laws. However, speaking of slow adoption of laws due to the bicameral system, this is a statement even without content. We saw in December what happened with the Jubilee decree. How long did it take us to approve it? So if there is will you do it. The problem is when some laws may not be made well and then it is in that case that time is needed. Let's also think about the question of the law of stability: we saw last year - I mean by the law of stability 2015 passed in December 2014 - that despite three passages, despite everything, there were errors in the law. Or in this year's law of stability, it was not possible at first reading to proceed to analyze some important issues because the Government was not ready, because the Government needed more time. So the statement "needs to speed up and make laws" is a statement that leaves the time it finds. If we then look at the statistical point of view, we also see that unfortunately, in our history, many laws have been made, many legends, too many. We actually have too many laws. So it is not necessary to speed up the legislative process because we do not have to rush the laws. If anything, it is necessary to make the laws better. Do less but do well. We remember, even recently, cases of laws made and then modified after one or two months, or laws filled with paragraphs and references to other laws, which for many citizens are sometimes incomprehensible. This whole system denotes that bureaucracy is hiding behind the laws, right behind the meanders of all these codes, to avoid taking responsibility. I repeat that the objective is not to make the laws quickly, but must be to do the laws well, to make laws that serve the citizens, unless - indeed - we want to do operations exclusively advertising, as is this reform. The cost cut that could be pursued - in our opinion - also by other methods, the intention of a more efficient legislative system denied then by the complex and cumbersome legislative procedure still in place, the relationship State-Regions that is not simplified at all or rationalized: here, these are the arguments that the Government has used in the last period to hide the real risk of the new centralism. In our view, in fact, the real objective of the reform is the shift of the institutional axis towards the Executive, towards Palazzo Chigi, towards Matteo Renzi. Above all it is in connection with the new electoral law because, if we go to see, ballot, majority prize to the single list, thresholds of access, blocked vote on the capilists will ensure that the Chamber of Deputies will be managed by the leader of the winning party, even if it will have few votes; in the electoral competition you will be able to use the system "a" takes everything, according to the model of the man only in command. In addition to the formation of laws, the election of the President of the Republic, the members of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Council of the judiciary will also be affected. In fact, it is the opinion of many constitutionalists, and therefore not Silvana Comaroli, that Senate reform and electoral law create the conditions for an authoritarian turning point. Mauro Dogliani, professor of constitutional law at the University of Turin, for example, points out that this electoral method introduces an element of randomness or ungovernability, making it problematic to bring back to a popular will the true determinations of political direction. An election with majority prizes such as this will submit to an electorate more or less unaware of political offers elaborated elsewhere. We are at the limit of staying in the parliamentary system, because the body to which the function of political direction is assigned is no longer the Parliament or the Chamber of Deputies, that is, the whole of the parties representing the citizens called to determine national politics, but it will only be the Premier! As for the composition, the 100 senators, is flagged as the achievement of a stratospheric cost reduction because the vitalities and salaries of the senators will no longer be paid; but if we go to verify, there will be really little money saved. The reality is that the President-in-Office of the Council, Matteo Renzi, has created a clash of images on a populist terrain that was striking: it is obvious, in fact, that the citizens are affected if they say: We have cut costs, we save you, there will be no more waste, we will no longer pay the senators. So it is natural to ask why Members have not been reduced too - as, among other things, we have also proposed with our amendments - if that was the objective. No, ladies and gentlemen. He used the populist system to get to his real purpose: to command him over everything and all and trouble to those who disagree with him. A nod to mayor senators, too. I have seen several mayors do their duty, duty that requires commitment and time. When you want to do multiple things, in the end they all get hurt. This double role requires the mayors to be able to perform their old functions seriously and those of senator. I imagine then a mayor who will have to be the mayor of Milan, the president of the Metropolitan City and also the senator. Who knows how he's gonna do everything? It'll be Superman! In addition, by proceeding in the examination of the reform, we see that we also touch Title V. First, the constitutional provisions relating to the Provinces as the constituent body of the Republic are deleted. But be careful: the Provinces are not abolished. In fact, they survive, they have simply been changed the name: instead of "Province" they are called "Large Area." What has really been abolished is the provincial council, i.e. the elective body. What has been abolished is democracy and popular sovereignty! The legislative and regulatory competence between the State and the Regions has also been reviewed. In particular, the shared competence has been abolished, with a redistribution of matters between the State and the Region. Here again, for many constitutionalists it is a reform with punitive effects for the autonomy because, by virtue of a vague general assumption such as the national interest, the state and centralist supremacy emerges. The supremacy clause should be limited to exceptional, particular, temporally limited situations, with the exclusion of matters which should be assigned exclusively to the Regions. Otherwise, one day someone in the government might think that they would be given other powers by way of derogation from the Constitution, so much is the national interest and who can forbid them to do so? It has been said that doing so will eliminate many disputes between the State and the Regions, but unfortunately, if the objective was to eliminate the competing subjects, in fact the litigation will multiply because it is not expected for the Regions what the exclusive subjects are and in any case there will always be a mix between state competence and regional competence. This reform, Mr President, in our view, is only necessary to deceive the citizens. Or it is necessary for Premier Matteo Renzi, to have a commercial, to show, as his motto is now, as he is good, as he is beautiful and how many things he does. Although then we see that what he says is all smoke. Trying to make a serious reform was possible and not even difficult, given that the idea of amending the Constitution has been developed for 20 years and that even the last reform included, for example, the reduction of costs and the reduction of senators and Members. But there is a desire to do so, precisely because it is the reform of the Constitution, it must be carefully evaluated and shared, not decided by the Government. Just a serious change would have been able to really reduce the costs of politics and to give more attention to the content of the laws, than to the spot of the moment. We have also seen it recently, in the case of civil servants and card fraud: we immediately saw the bill ad that we intend to approve, in order to make sure that they can be fired in 48 hours, because we need to "show" the citizens. Another serious reform would have been to restore national sovereignty, marginalizing foreign influence in internal decisions and perhaps Renzi, in these days, knows something about the European Union's interference in the facts concerning our policy. Just in case! A serious reform would have been able to apply more federalism, to promote the different instances of the territory and would have been able to really strengthen the tools to guarantee popular sovereignty, instead of saying that the future Senate will be the Senate of the self-governments, when, if we go to see its actual competences, it will be little or nothing and its function will be reduced to a marginal function. It is said, however, that we will have the Senate of the autonomous, in which the Regions and the Municipalities will be able to assert their demands. I challenge anyone to say what will be the instances that will actually bring to the attention of the Government. In all this, the drama is that, in the end, the participation of citizens does not find space in this constitutional reform that, using the words of the constitutionalist Villone to some extent overturns those principles that were aimed at participation, unless it is thought that it is worth, for the purpose of participation, the participation of tweets and Facebook pages. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u78	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u79	Mr President, I shall begin by responding to the speeches of three Members who have preceded me, in order to give a semblance of debate, to a debate which is a sort of stone-cold party in this process of constitutional reforms. So let us try to create a semblance of debate. First of all, I would like to inform Senator Mancuso, who complained that he had not been registered with sufficient minutation and referred back to the subsequent passage of the reform for better management of the times in the Assembly, that this is the last passage of the reform in the Senate and that says a lot about many other things. Senator Collina, who was particularly inspired this evening, invited us to change the country, starting from ourselves. Senator Collina, for God's sake, I fully agree with you on this statement, but I believe that, if we really wanted to change ourselves and then change the country, we should start from many other things and begin to put in place so many bad things that came out of this Parliament, also thanks to his vote: then we will also talk about these things. Senator Collina also said that reform is an important step of the government to change the country. We would have expected many other important steps in the legislative life of the Renzi Government: Read, as it were, more than a hologram was a meteor. Then he goes on to say that colleagues who don't understand this are blind. It seems to me, on the other hand, that those who contest this reform see us very well. It doesn't matter to enjoy good vision or to be proficient and refined philologists to understand that the text of this reform is illegible, because mirror and projection of a reform that in itself doesn't stand, a shameful papocchio that opens the way to many risks for this country; not least, rather, the main one, our already very reproached democracy. In the end, Senator Pagliari, who challenges the forces that are opposed to this reform that the same, who proposed themselves as innovators, to the test of the facts of the constitutional reform instead present themselves as conservative forces, aimed at maintaining a status quo. If maintaining democracy in this country means being conservative, I declare myself a great conservative and, in this case, I am also proud to be conservative. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Well, because our Premier, who in other places has already been called (also by me) a person who likes to play, a gambler, who often likes to throw the dice of fate on the tables of this Parliament and so far the maneuvers have told him quite well, for those who are the parliamentary results, very badly, in my opinion, as regards the rating of liking. And since he wants to turn the confirmation vote of this reform into a plebiscite vote for his great work as enlightened statesman of this legislature, we accept this challenge. Let us leave the perimeter of constitutional reform and tell the Italians why they should vote "no" in the referendum. There are many reasons, in addition to the sacrosing ones already well explained by the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement who preceded me - and I am convinced that there will be others able to explain it even better - there are many. Let's go see why we should say 'no' to that referendum and then to Renzi. It is necessary to say no because Renzi can be given the opportunity to approve the Unlock Italy, which has transformed this country into a grove and that will ensure that areas will be drilled inside a natural park such as that of the Tremiti Islands. Then we will have to say no because, always the Renzi Government, is proud to have done a reform of the school that gives this country a school that will no longer be a place where everyone will have the same opportunities and the merit will be rewarded but a school where companies will enter powerfully, with all their logics, and will have teachers no longer free to teach. It is also necessary to say no to this Government and the referendum because it has passed a law on self-money laundering that is a joke because the Government maintains the possibility of using that money undisturbed if used for personal purposes. Then, we're going to vote 'no' because this government hasn't made a serious law to fight evasion. Then it would have brought savings and a lot of money into the state's coffers, not the crumbs that thousands of people want to bring in with this constitutional reform. I should like to add a few words: because our dear Premier, in his immense and boundless work of mystifying reality, allows us to say here and there a few small lies, saying that the reform of the Senate will produce about one billion euros of savings, we would like to inform our dear President of the Council, evidently little published on the budgets of the two branches of Parliament, that the Senate budget, as a whole, consists of 500 million euros and the cost of the senators is about 80 million euros. Think that the 5 Star Movement, in a very simple way, abandoning electoral refunds, has already earned 42 million euros to the Italian State, so half of those that he would like to save at the expense of democracy in this country. We, on the other hand, have returned them and democracy is saved. Good. Then the anti-corruption package. Even here, we have not seen any trace of the Daspus for the corrupt, nor the possibility of confiscating or confiscating the property of those convicted of corruption. Then we have the decree-law refunds, the Poletti bonus, which, with an almsgiving, thought he could remedy the shameful scum made by former minister Fornero, who illegally put his hand in the pensions of Italians. Then there is a topic of great popularity, the decree-law on popular banks. That alone would be a reason to vote no in the referendum. And I don't want to shoot the knife in the plague because, even here, colleagues better than me of the 5 Star Movement have already remembered what the popular bank decree is, what the decree saves banks and how, in a regurgitation of pride, our Minister should resign. The Democratic Party, in fact, the tempore demanded the resignation of Ministers, if not for much less, certainly for equally serious facts. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And for the moment we can only see the tip of the iceberg. And then we want to talk about all gifts to gambling lobbyists? But a gambler doesn't surprise us that much. There is the local government decree, which cuts 2.3 billion euros to health. And we continue to cut to health, to school, to culture, because we must continue to favour the lobbying of both sides and we must continue to invest in international military missions. Because this is those missions, even if we tell ourselves that they are peace missions and we want to continue to take part in plans for the construction of aircraft and aircraft suitable for war that leave much to be desired. Then Renzi is always that of Italicum. Basically, an electoral law that aimed to remedy and correct the Porcellum and, instead, ends up being much worse. But on that, I think they're going to put their hands on after the referendum. Wait for it, citizens, because if the referendum comes to a certain conclusion, I am convinced that someone's hand will come and change that electoral law. Do we want to talk about the reform of the RAI, which remains dormant? Or the suppression of the Forest Corps? Do we want to talk about the various ILVA-saving decrees that have taken place in this legislature, confirming the total inability of this Government to carry forward far-sighted political agendas, on the part of the citizens, that protect the rights enshrined in the Constitutional Charter, first of all the right to health? We remember, in fact, that there are seriously ill children there. We do not have them before our eyes, but their families live together every day with this misfortune and with this tragedy. And that alone should have been enough for this government to do things seriously. One of the reasons the Premier will use to convince citizens to vote yes will be that of the speed of the times. In other interventions I have already remembered how fast you were in approving the Alfano praise (twenty days), the aforementioned Fornero law (six days) and, not least, let's take a recent example, because otherwise we look like nostalgics who look only to the past. Instead, let us also look at the current legislature. In the very recent past we had the Boccadutri law, which you voted very quickly to grab your funding and therefore to heal your positions. I say that this country deserves a better government, a far-sighted government, a government capable of carrying out political agendas in the long run. But to do this, this enlightened Government should have a quality that this Government does not have, that is, the ability to share its choices. And I'm not saying that I'm a poor, conservative, demagogic, whatever. Choose your favorite adjective. Imagine that a great Head of State, former President of Uruguay José Mujica, said this in a famous and beautiful interview with an Italian journalist. He has supported how important it is for a government, and especially for the health of its own country and its citizens, to be able to carry out policies shared above all in those which are the cornerstones of its life: infrastructure and transport, which have not been received; public education, also not received; health and - alas - my heart is tightened in this case because, besides not being received, they have put hand in it and reduced the country to a social butchery; and finally environmental and energy policies. And here it unlocks Italy again, because it unlocks not only the drills, but also many beautiful projects of the Premier's friends, among which one should now even become the head of the cyber security unit, that is the so-called cyber security. Imagine if Berlusconi had done such a thing, if he had allowed himself to lead this unit, which was not established by Renzi but - I think - by Monti, Senator Gasparri or any other senator among those closest to him at the time. I believe that all then parliamentarians in the center-left would have gone down to the square to make rounds to consume their feet. But today Renzi does it and the friend in question is Mr. Carrai, who, in unlocking Italy, has as a gift the airport of Florence-Peretola. Let's not forget that, in unlocking Italy, in addition to the gift for Carrai and drillers, there is also a nice sponge stroke on all the protections of our landscape-environmental heritage. Of course, what landscape-environmental heritage does Italy have? No one. Who comes to Italy for the landscape and its beauties? No one. And so you give yourself a nice towel and you take away a little power from the superintendents. And Minister Madia, another enlightened of this Government, says yes to the silence-consent for the protection of artistic and landscape goods, reduces the terms and brings together the superintendences in the prefectures, to be sure that all gifts made with the unlock Italy arrive at their destination. In fact, it is known that controllers are annoying to those who have a conception of monocratic power and think that they have been invested - it is not well known from which supreme entity - in the power to do, to undo and to decide in spite of Parliament. Then, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would ask you to listen to the speeches that have been made in this House, those that break down the reform that is not in itself. Among other things, it is a really dangerous reform because, being also written badly and full of vulnus, it could create that institutional chaos that has often been the preamble, the antechamber of historical periods that we Italians still remember very dark of our country; historical periods with which, of course, we have not yet reconciled and come to terms, if we are still today afraid that they will return. Renzi, however, also said that if he wins the no, he withdraws from politics. And that is the main reason - and this is also what I have to say - to go to the referendum and vote no. If Mr. Renzi were in fact, by chance, in a moment of electrocution on one of the many ways - I am not like - to actually leave, it would be above all a great luck for the country and for all the citizens who live there. And then, if you take all the maidens that surround you, those maidens whose smiles today don't reassure so much... president. You can stay on the subject without offending. Montevecchi (M5S). I'm not offending. I'm saying, take those maids with you, too. Look, Vice President Fedeli, do you know what is really shameful and truly offensive? Being freed of a Berlusconian twenty years in which a certain image of the woman has always been given; and she, who is part of a party that has always condemned that thing and has always been indignant about the image of the woman that that twenty years has given, is today part of that party that has expressed a Premier who still surrounds himself with handmaids. Then I'll finish saying what I was saying, without any shame. The smiles of these ladies, who once reassured, today have become disturbing for the many shadows they hide. Then, dear citizens, in October, when the referendum takes place, let us get rid of this anxiety, let us shine the sky of the stars of democracy again and let us vote for a good 'no'. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u80	Senator Martelli, who I consider to be a senator of the Republic, is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u81	Madam President, I take this as a compliment, but I consider myself a citizen who temporarily occupies these posts. So, for starters, I will not go so far in trying to disassemble the content of this reform for the third time. I will just say that all the objections raised in three rounds of debate have never been answered. When you don't give an answer, you can assume that the answer isn't there; it's better to keep quiet, if you can't say anything good, right? However, I would like to recall the concepts for a moment. Number one: it is not true that this constitutional reform will speed up the legislative process, because, when the new Senate makes use of the power to examine a bill, it will run seventy-five days before it can end. Now, with a decree-law, it takes sixty; so we are more than 25 percent in terms of the use of time and therefore it does not speed up. Secondly, if it were necessary to speed up, what is the point? To make more laws? But we already have so many. And what is the value of having so many laws? Each law corrects the mistakes of the previous ones. The law of stability had not yet fulfilled ten days and was already touched. Not even ten days. The most important law of a state, the only law that the government is entitled to do (because the law of stability is a government law by definition), already after ten days had problems. Unbelievable! She was born badly. She had a congenital malformation. So it is not true that we must make the laws quickly. Democracies as dignified as ours do not have all this legislative production; there is no need to have a hasty democracy, because there is no need to make so many laws and, in any case, the instrument of the decree-law allows you to make them. However, we produce more laws than others produce. And it is not true - Senator Pagliari is no longer in the Chamber, so I cannot address him directly - that we need a granite majority and a guaranteed government to be able to make laws quickly. Even when there was the pentapartite and other things of this type and the Governments lasted what lasted, there were many laws made the same, demonstrating that it is not true the sillogism for which, with a strong and cohesive majority and with a single Chamber that does things, you go faster. That's not true, because there are counter-examples. That's all I need: a counter-example is enough for me. But something more must be said, namely that this reform is illogical. Why is it illogical? Because he proposes things that are inconsistent with other things he proposes. For example, he proposes to make a Senate that should represent territorial entities. That would make sense if the latter had powers that they don't have. We are dealing with regions that are entities with derivative finance: if Mother State does not give him money, they do nothing. Then, when I claim to give voice to regional self-government, I have to give it some more power. Instead, I do the opposite: the supremacy clause, the superpowers of the government. He already has superpowers with the decree-law and is now given superpowers; in any case, he has the last word. That's illogical. Now I'm gonna make a few references to illogicality, then we're gonna see what the picture is because, when you find out that what's being put under your nose is illogical and is being carried forward anyway, it means that there's a bigger design and you have to look at it in another way. This is the first consideration of illogicality. The second is that there is already no equal bicameralism. There would be if and only the two Houses had the same number and were elected in the same way and had the same active and passive electorate. Instead, not everyone who is eligible for the Senate is also in the House: you must be over forty years old. To vote in the Senate, you must have twenty-five and not eighteen. Thus, in itself, the representative composition is different in number and the Senate is elected on a regional basis, with a regional majority prize. It already contains a germ of regional representativeness. But in that case, either you make the move or you don't. Make the move to say: "I want to represent the autonomy and then stop it becomes an inconsistent and counterproductive thing. Examples of what a federal senate means are there. I think, for example, of the United States of America, which are born federal immediately. There are clear competences of the Senate and another thing is also clear. Since you have to represent the counter-power of a strong power, you need a strong Senate. In fact, the Senate is stronger than Congress: the senators last longer; they have more powers and more prestige. They have a whole series of collateral. Also, in a system where you accentuate power, you need to put the Constitution in a safe. For this I thank you for teaching us, and Uncle Silvio before you, what are the easy access keys to the Constitution: it does not take a large majority to touch it and, moreover, the referendum does not even have a quorum. It would suffice for 51% of 40% to vote. In some referendums that was the number. 50 percent of 40 percent is 20 percent. With 20% we would change the Constitutional Charter. In the United States of America - for someone I am repeating myself because I have already said so in the Commission today - it takes 75 of Congress and Senate and 75 percent of States must say yes, regardless of their populace. The small state votes and weighs as much as the big state and is right. Instead, you, in your division of seats, have not even thought about this. You have not even taken a virtuous example, which is that of a consolidated federal state. By the way, it is the federal state that should have a constitution that should be marched, according to what Mr. Matteo Renzi says, since it is well over two hundred years old. Ours, which does not even have seventy, according to him is already to be changed, forgetting that it has been changed only about twenty times in the previous years. The important thing is to say only one piece of truth; so, whoever listens fills the void of truth with what you expect to put in it. What is this model that you want to propose? It's the Polish one, according to which the Senate is there, but it doesn't matter. But it's a waste of time, in your mindset. It advocates the laws; it thinks a little about them and proposes amendments. Then the House says: I don't care about merchandise; nothing is done. This is the model. It's not original; it's badly copied. Let's move on. Let's level up with the concept of the Constitution. The Constitution serves to give more power to citizens. The Constitution is born when you leave absolutism, when you move from a monarchy to a constitutional monarchy and you make a Constitution. The new form of government is called constitutional monarchy. This is taught in history and not in constitutional law. The Constitutions have this purpose: to take away power from governments and give it to citizens. It's a quote from Benjamin Franklin. Let us consider some other Constitutions because you, in fact, have a model. It is - if you like - one of the three versions of the Constitution of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Those who call you communists in a certain sense are right. Analyzing them shows the difference between a Western and a Soviet Constitution. The Soviet Constitution does not cover all those parts of individual rights because in that type of state the interest of the many prevailed over that of the few. Right or acceptable, that's it. The Constitution was concerned with regulating relations between the various organizations of the state, rather than the individual citizen. Second thing. Those Constitutions, by their very nature, tended to take a photograph of what was there, i.e. they took note of what had become the State and of the relations between the organizations of the State. You are doing this; you are saying that, since the process of the laws, according to you, does not proceed fast enough, this is the antidote. Since, in your opinion, there is too much inertia with two Chambers, then the antidote is practically to remove one. You are, that is, doing the same thing: photograph a situation and say that a Constitution is needed to guarantee this state of affairs. That's what you're saying. So, in fact, you have a Bolshevik mold within your constitution. It is a pity that all that part of solidarity and mutualism in a state of that kind, which you do not even contemplate, is missing. We are still up to the level, because, given all these inconsistencies, the question that would be asked is why we want to do the same. Then, as in the book "Flatlandia" in which one tries to describe a three-dimensional world for someone who is in two dimensions - who cannot conceive it - one has to climb up and enter a higher dimension and look at it from above. In this they helped me all your calls to what is the new world order. After you hear it once, two, three times, you wonder why. Who spoke for the first time in the world? It was in 1944 at the Bretton Woods Conference; it was the first time that this was discussed. As a world order it was meant an organization of trade in monetary flows that would result in a political consequence. That's how he was born. After that, how did you get on with it? With the implementation of this world order. We see it because it's exactly consistent with what you're doing. The first implementation was with GATT, the first free trade agreement, which was then replaced by the WTO, the World Trade Organisation. The International Monetary Fund was created at that time. This network had the following purpose: to create bodies not only over national but over-Union, which are above - at the highest level - of all and contain the famous international court, the one that settles disputes between states and unions of states and subjects who, in whatever way, have something to say (such as: you don't want me to sell junk food because it hurts, I bring you into question). International arbitration is above national legislation, above that of the European Union, above that of the United States; in short, it stands at the top: this is the hierarchy of command. From there, through free trade treaties (TTIP, TPP, NAFTA), you get to a second level. These regulate relations no longer at world level but of macro-areas: the European Union with the United States, the Asian bloc with the North American bloc. There too there are courts, international bodies - which do not comply with the laws of the States - which decide: they make decisions and the state has to give up. This, in turn, in the hierarchy, is based on the laws of the European Union, the United States and then of the individual States; so the state, which is the lowest of all, becomes a paper-card. I do not say this, but some economists, including Rogoff, who is a very famous international economist, and another one called Rodrik, who basically said the following: following this hierarchical chain of command, we realize that, in a context of globalization of trade and currency exchanges, there are only two possibilities: we make a planetary federation, therefore a planetary federal state, or a softer way, that is, the State renounces a certain type of legislation, that is, its function must become to create the context so that there is no obstacle to trade and currency flows. Let's take a good look at her. This Constitution does exactly that: it cuts democracy away, it reduces everything to a government that still exists, that doesn't have too many intermediaries, and that takes orders from above. We are already seeing it: we have a government that takes orders from the European Union, which in turn takes them from these international bodies that are ultimately the ones who dictate the rules. Here are the statements of JpMorgan, of Moody's: they are those organisms that have been created as collateral (business banks are born as collateral), as guardians of this system. You see, it all works out. We can also understand why we are doing favors to the banks, to the financial system, because the financial system is the one that supports the finance of governments, of those who in turn support the International Monetary Fund, which is one of the puppeteers of all this castle. Banks are essential bodies when they continue to ask for favors because the Boschi bank has been asked for favors (trusts granted freely); the Intesa bank and Unicredit have been asked for favors, or Montepaschi. For example: "Buy me, please, the Tirreno Power by De Benedetti, by the way; buy me Tirenno Power that stands for bankruptcy." And so the Monte dei Paschi, which has 20 billion unquenchable credits, made three increases in capital and has the shares that are worth less than the paper on which they are printed, bought the Tirreno Power, a company decorated and in bankruptcy. Is it clear that by asking this something you have to give and what you give? For example, 7.5 billion with the decree-law IMU-Bankitalia that you will remember. It's a do ut des. That's the pattern. The pattern based on a hierarchical chain. Once you understand this and take a good look from above it is obvious that this constitutional reform must be rejected, but not because there is a democratic issue because that aspect, looking at the whole, becomes secondary. The real question is the compression of higher freedoms. You'll have someone you don't even know which side he's on. So it is no longer a question of democracy. We'll have someone who doesn't even know which side it's decided everything for you; they didn't just decide the form of government of your country, or how to choose the constitutional judges or the President of the Republic. He must have decided exactly your route: from the cradle to the grave. How you eat, how you work, what your pension is. That is what is underneath, and that is why this reform must be rejected. Anyway, I could get to say that I was joking, that maybe I wasn't. But it would be interesting if he tried to disassemble what I said. They are all documented things; just study a little to verify that they are all documented things. I say it again, addressing even those who listen to us from outside (I am pleased that someone here is listening, few but still there). The challenge is open: show me that I am wrong because if we really want to provide information to citizens when we go to the constitutional referendum, we will have to tell them the whole story and not the slogans. It is clear that by saying to the citizen: dear citizen, with this reform we will proceed faster, we will be better, the laws will be better the citizen what do you want me to say? He'll say yes. So we're either doing an information or misinformation campaign. Then let's try to play clean. Do an information campaign and tell us exactly what is contained in the reform and then see if the citizens vote for it and, perhaps, in a single shot we get rid of both this and Matteo Renzi, that I don't like very much; but I don't think he likes you either. [[Applause from Senators Santangelo and Mangili.]] Let's put the two together. After all, he raised the bar: he turned it into a referendum on himself and his work. Worse! Because considering only the reform you can make certain considerations, increasing the load the considerations clearly become others. So, all the more reason, this reform is to be postponed back and, armchair or not armchair, we will have to think about all this because done this reform or comes the troika and we go to vote in 2018, or we vote immediately and the troika comes anyway. This is already done. It is already done because now we will have to pay tens of tens of billions of euros because we have the ESM and the fiscal compact coming and we have to start paying the installments. And since no one in the government has been able to go and get the money, so much so that you have made a new debt to cover the safeguard clauses, we will not be able to make about 50 billion new debt. So it's gonna take someone to put their faces on it, like the Fornero who put her face on it, she was Minister for a while, and then she ruined herself. Because you won't do it, you have to wonder if there will be the troika right before the election, or the troika right after. Anyway, it's always about troikas. Do we want to give this to Italian citizens? A troika? We have a way and time to avoid it because they will never forgive you, but they will never forgive the entire political class. You've dragged everyone down, if the troika really comes and it's something you shouldn't underestimate. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u82	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u83	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, a person who has read the current Constitution, who appreciates it and knows its genesis, in the face of the constitutional text before us, can only remain with a smile; a bitter smile because of the superficiality with which many of the issues it contains have been addressed. What we are about to vote on remains a messy reform, sometimes unfinished both in terms of roles and powers. Only the title of the bill remains very appealing. It is a clever title because it argues that the text contains provisions for overcoming bicameralism, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the reduction of costs, the functioning of the institutions, the abolition of the CNEL, the revision of Title V of Part II of the Constitution. A title that contains a real fraud and is dangerous because it constitutes - and that is why I have mentioned it - also the question on which citizens will be called to speak with a yes or a no. In fact, none of the topics listed are dealt with and resolved definitively. The bicameralism of equality is not surpassed, but a Senate is created which is a sort of limp duck. A Senate that should represent the territorial institutions and therefore a strengthening of the autonomy, through the appointment or election of representatives of Regions and Municipalities, just when the competences to the autonomous are reduced and mortified. Senators are elected indirectly and therefore citizens will not be able to choose them directly, but will be elected by the Regional Councils; they will be chosen or, in the best way, indicated by the parties. Just as citizens will not be able to choose those of the House, which are included in special lists chosen by the parties, by virtue of an electoral law, the Italicum, approved by the PD with the vote of confidence. If it is true that the number of Members is reduced, the most disturbing aspect is that the cost is not reduced. Because - it goes without saying - work in Rome will still have to be paid in some way, as well as transfers. As well as the management costs of the structure remain. It reduces the number of Members, but to a very lesser extent than we proposed with our constitutional reform, reducing the total number of Members of the House as well. The 95 senators elected by the Regional Councils, and not directly by the citizens, will be called to duplice positions and the most skilled will also have triple positions (Common, Region and Senate). So much so that, in order to be sure that they will come to Rome, an amendment had to be made to Article 64 of the Constitution, which lays down the obligation for Members of Parliament to participate in the meetings of the Assembly and in the work of the Commissions. To the Senators of regional nomination will be added the five Senators of presidential nomination that last in office seven years, plus the former Presidents of the Republic, who become it by right. While the constituents had foreseen the presence of the senators for life as wise in a Senate of elders, now the ratio of the presence of the wise senators called to advise those who will be simple regional advisors free to go out to the Senate for two days a week. It really sounds like a joke if it wasn't written in a constitutional bill. How two or three assignments can be met simultaneously is then absolutely difficult to comprehend. And then a question above all: what is the use of a Senate composed largely of regional councillors, as well as mayors, if the competences of the autonomouss are completely emptied? Today that the matter of exclusive regional competence or competitor with the State is very wide, to confront with the choices of the Government is sufficient the unified Conference. A unified conference that costs a few thousand euros a year will replace a Senate that, to do many, much less things, costs a few hundred million euros. It might as well have been worth completely abolishing it, as we of Forza Italia have repeatedly argued. Also because this was the promise made by Renzi in the electoral campaign for the primaries of PD. Tomorrow that the competences of the Regions provided for in Article 117 of the Constitution will be practically non-existent, to confront with the Government on those matters will be the Senate of the Republic through the so-called bicameral laws. This is absurd in legal and practical terms. Regions without constitutional competence. Municipalities without resources, as a result of cuts in local finance. Provinces that change name, becoming bodies of wide area, but keeping intact the overlap with many of the competences of the other two territorial authorities. We are faced with an authentically banal text, as well as incomplete. We are faced with a lack of coordination between the constitutional rules. We are faced with rules that will complicate the life of Italians, rather than simplify it. Madam President, since my speech was expected in a more advanced hour, I had thought, just to keep up the audience of those who were present with me on this evening, to group in some tweets - as it is now in fashion - my personal opposition to this reform, but I also believe the opposition of many Italian citizens, waiting for, then, in the future Senate, the slides can also be used (so Renzi's reform process would be total). In these slides I wanted to condense what I think are the worst things we need to digest in this reform. The first thought I have made is that the fundamental change in the rules of democracy, because of the importance of the issue and the effects it is intended to produce, should not bend to the political logics of a party. The Constitution represents the cultural and political identity of a people, who look at it and recognize it as a united community, and I do not think that this is an objective that has been achieved either. Changing the Constitution means contributing to the aggregation of sharing and not representing lacerations or occasions of conflict, and this is what we are experiencing. The government is based on a majority prize declared unconstitutional and so how can it deal with these issues in this way and with this aim? The party leader, Silvio Berlusconi, who has the largest number of opposition groups, was expelled from Parliament on the basis of an unjust sentence, violating the principle of the irretroactivity of criminal law. The Nazarene Pact, supported in a first phase by President Berlusconi, has never been an agreement with prescriptive content but a method to achieve a broad sharing on reforms, which instead has been lacking. The Democratic Party is carrying out a series of reforms by majority vote, although, as I said, with a majority prize declared illegitimate by the Constitutional Court. With the electoral law he even avoided the debate and posed the question of trust, the first case in republican history. Thanks to this constitutional change and the new electoral law a party that is a minority in the country can govern, make appointments, elect guarantee bodies, elect the President of the Republic. The procedure for designating the new Senate is certainly confused. The role of representatives of the Regions in the Senate is ambiguous. The functions assigned to the new Senate are inconsistent. The division of competences between the State and the Regions leads to a neocentralism and certainly to a new constitutional dispute promoted by the Regions. The costs of politics do not really decrease. The reform does not address the challenges for the modernisation of the country. A reform must represent a common heritage of all the Italian people, not a moment of division. The President of the Council, never legitimized by elections, intended to politicize and personalize the confirmation referendum. A possible referendum will not correct the flaws of the reform, but will confirm them. Madam President, a final point comes to me at the end of this day, or at least three quarters of this day, since we will continue with the sitting at night. This morning I was registered to speak in the first Commission and, as you know, such a short time limit did not even allow the opportunity to speak in the Commission. I believe that this is the distinguishing figure of the failure of this procedure by which we want to complete a reform which is very important to the country. A lively and passionate discussion as I heard this morning I really think it was important at least to be able to deliver it to the bottom of our posterity and I believe that choking it to avoid a debate and a confrontation will not be a good road for the future of this country. I regret that such an important occasion for the country has not been transformed I do not say at a constituent moment as many years ago, in which perhaps even the emotional thrust was different, but in the possibility of arriving at a reform that could really get us out of the Senate happy, majority and opposition. At the end of this debate, with these times and with this will, with the need to complete a reform, which we do not understand why it must be approved right now and just in a few hours, we will certainly be dissatisfied with Forza Italia, but I believe that you too will be dissatisfied with the Democratic Party, for everything your party expresses with its history. In fact, this is not the way to get to the bottom of a reform that the country was waiting for and that deserved to be addressed by our side with more seriousness. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u84	Senator Marton is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u85	Madam President, it is a shame that Minister Boschi left a few minutes ago. I noticed that she was dressed in black, the classic color of mourning, and I would have asked her if that black color of mourning was for the democracy she killed with this reform or for the 13,000 families she sent on the pavement with Bank Etruria and her family. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is a pity, therefore, that I cannot answer these questions, but I think that maybe you will have the patience and the desire to do so sooner or later. It must be said that citizens will not forget what Minister Boschi has done, even if he tries to water him down by looking for other media cases to bury everything: what he has done is irreparable! There have been victims that she will bring on her conscience; she will have to reckon with her conscience! Anyway, let's stay on the subject because that's why I'm here. We are going to touch on the democratic basis of our State: it is basically the union of Italians, because the Constitution lays down the fundamental principles, rights and duties of the citizen; even the state's order, that is, everything that concerns the life of Italians as a whole, is enshrined in the Constitution. It took millions of deaths to arrive at a constitution of this kind; our founders have basically put our lives away to bring us a product worth defending, but we - in four and four eight - wipe it out as if it were the Boccadutri law, the last pearl of this government! I shall now turn to the amendments, which I still do not understand; then I will leave to the documents some questions to which I have not been answered. First of all, I would like to focus on the objectives of this reform, which in reality is not such, but is merely the burial of the Constitution. The objectives are the mere reduction of costs, the reduction of parliamentarians and the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism. They must explain to me - as I have also asked the Committee on Constitutional Affairs - why the latter must be overcome, that is, what advantage it brings. Whoever preceded me, Senator Martelli, dismantled the reform itself, point by point. It has been said that speed in making laws is one of the reasons why bicameralism must be overcome. Mrs Montevecchi has shown that the so-called Fornero law, which destroyed 300,000 people (or perhaps even 400,000, if I remember correctly), has been passed in sixteen days. In sixteen days we have destroyed 300,000 people, but we must act even faster! What do we do in five days? Let's move on. The Senate is changed: why only the Senate? We must reduce Members, because that is one of the aims. We have 630 people on one side and 315 on the other, but we decide that the most annoying part, the one that is elected with a certain electoral system, the one that usually bothers governments because it puts the load on all the laws and finally decides how they should be made, must be - I repeat, just because it bothers - removed. We decide, therefore, that 220 people are eliminated and that we make only a hundred: we have saved, because we no longer pay the allowances and so on. We don't answer, however, the question to understand what happens to this whole structure when the hundred new senators arrive: will everything remain standing? What are the senate employees gonna do? For example, this is a question. When regional councillors or mayors come to the Senate from the various regions, from Sicily or from Lombardy (we will then see to do what, among other things, given the useless role they will play), how will they be reimbursed? Will there be reimbursementpoli and Mafia Capital as in the Municipality of Rome and the Lazio Region? Will they come here to pick up and inflate refunds? I have already pointed this out in the Commission. We'll see this, too, because history will tell us, if the referendum doesn't fail this crap! We have said that there will be a hundred senators, including 74 regional councillors, 21 mayors and five senators for life. So let us keep the figure of senators for life. In the transitional rule, if I understand correctly, it is expected that the current senators for life will remain and will be at the end of the five that may be present here, but it is not clear whether the senators for life currently present in the Senate will last in office seven years as so foreseen by the reform or if they will remain even after the seven years. This is not very clear. How are they gonna get paid because they don't have a regional councilman's salary or a mayor's salary? Is this saving a lie? AIROLA (M5S). Like Bank Etruria's bonds! MARTON (M5S). The immunity will be granted to 71 regional advisers. The question that arises is: why do we leave immunity to these regional advisers and not to others? What's gonna make them different? The ability to steal? In the various parties it will then be sent to certain persons, who will also be in the position of senator, to do evil for all and, therefore, to distribute prebende to all the other regional councillors, as they will enjoy immunity. This is gonna happen. There will be the warden: the senator will become the warden, a figure not currently foreseen in the Regional Councils, so much so that they arrest one member a day. This role will also be recognized to the mayors because they too, who have the power over the plans of government of the territory (PGT) of their Municipalities, will be able to steal enjoying the immunity deriving from the office of senator. Obviously the mayors of the capital municipalities will be elected, so with a much wider business round and so on with the robberies that have distinguished us well in that political class! However, I am confident that there is still some honest one, but it is a trust that - unfortunately - I believe I am the only one to feed by now. Let's go see how they will be elected, because this too is a secret (I think it's Fatima's fifth secret). There will be a law that will have to be transposed by the Regional Councils to decide who, within them, will be elected senator. In this case too, I come back to the point before: will it be for merits of theft or for merits of the amount of votes they carry? What will be the criterion? He's in charge. It is established that the Regions will have ninety days to adopt this regional law. So, there are neither certain times nor anything else. With an amendment - think of the madness that pervaded me - I had tried to make the following proposal. Where, as happened in the Lombardy Region during the previous elections, the Regional Council decided not to transpose the national law, the government was given the power to replace it. I - crazy - proposed to attribute the substitute power to the Government to act and adopt the law of empire. The amendment has been rejected and, therefore, the Government does not want this power either because it knows that it will be framed with regional powers and, therefore, the Executive will no longer have the support of the regional consortia. This mechanism cannot therefore be introduced. Everything that has been proposed to improve this filth has been rejected, in the face of what the senator said up there - which I do not even want to mention for the flood of inaccuracies he said - according to which we are those who want to maintain what is planned. That is not true. We have worked closely together to try to improve the measure. Since the way of election is not clear, let's see what the competences are (which is even less clear). Senators will not be able to adopt ordinary laws, which will be adopted by the Chamber alone. However, the senator may decide to invoke a law of the House, verify it and submit amendments within thirty days. He will then be able to assess what is wrong and amend the provision, which will then have to return to the House, which will be able to give a damn about it. So, the new senators will arrive in the Senate from Lombardy and Sicily, they will work, they will do everything they have to do to improve the law and they will send it back to the House, which will say: "You know what? I don't like it, I keep it the way it is and you keep doing what you were doing: don't get caught. In what kind of context will this happen? In the new Senate, since there is representation of the Regional Councils, the two political forces that most of all annoy (for fairness I only mention my political strength) will be lacking. These two forces do not currently have a high representativeness in the Regional Councils. So, you'll practically have a Senate without the Five Star Movement. Why? Because the 5 Star Movement is annoying. The design is then quite clear: I want a Chamber elected essentially in a plebiscite way (he who wins gets everything, that is 340 seats out of 630), which will also have the opportunity to give me the confidence, while to the Senate I will send only my regional advisors. The situation that will be realized will be that the House will do what it wants (in fact, what the Government says) and the Senate will not be able to catch us. So we'll proceed with what the Prime Minister wants. There's a little problem. At a time when something should happen and the government should ask for confidence in an act, the question of trust is given only by the House, composed almost exclusively by its members. But then we're kidding each other. Why was the question of trust envisaged? Let's take it off. If we have a House made "exclusively" by the majority and chosen by the Prime Minister, what do we do about the matter of trust? Let's take it off because it's absolutely no use. I mentioned the double job of the poor senators coming here to look like... (I can't say what kind of figure, perhaps of double workers); probably they won't be there because they won't have any reason to come here: they will have competence over constitutional laws, but if these are decided by a different majority in the House, what sense does it make? Forget it. However, I would like to return to the question of trust, because I do not think I have made it clear enough. We have the election to the House of Deputies: 340 people out of 630, so the absolute majority, 55%, who will vote for the government's confidence out of the same elections that brought them there. This will be guaranteed by the President of the Republic, just voted by the same majority. Where there is a problem with the attribution of powers, there will be the Constitutional Court, elected for nine out of fifteen members still by the majority. Then I wonder why you brought this whole system into play. Wasn't it enough to make a beautiful monarchy again? No, because the Constitution provides that we do not return to the monarchy. You could have said: command the king, who has the right to do whatever he wants and has the right of life and death over subjects; you become subjects and we do what we want. You'd be more honest. It was a more honest system, you would have been at least clear and you wouldn't have mocked your constituents. As for the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, in order to return to the reduction of costs, it was not better to reduce half from one branch of Parliament and half from the other, to change the Regulations of the House and Senate and establish more streamlined procedures, perhaps by unifying the Regulations by improving the legislative procedure (even if not bringing it to perfection, that does not exist, because then the human beings are those who are and everyone pursues their own interests and, rightly, their own ideas). As for the CNEL, I wonder what annoyance it was. Costs? A transitional rule has been introduced establishing that all employees of CNEL and all persons currently working there will be absorbed by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Then you're making fun of us! You say that you are doing the reform of the century, which saves a billion euros - this is the figure fired by our fantasist - but in reality on the one hand you take and on the other you take off and you bring back all the costs of CNEL under the Ministry of Economy and Finance. I'll stop here, but I'd like to leave some questions to the record. For the benefit of those who have decided to move from 50,000 to 150,000 signatures to present a law of popular initiative? Who benefits from this change: citizens? Before they had a small hope to see discussed a bill signed by 50,000 voters, today the subscribers must be 150,000. Is this bringing the institutions closer to the people? That is what they are telling us: we bring the institutions closer to the people and then increase the signatures to 150,000. Why maintain impunity for these new senators? Why maintain the issue of trust? Here, in my opinion, no one will ever answer me. Why keep senators alive, since this senate doesn't matter? Did we get the job for our Senator Napolitano? We love this person so much that we have decided to keep it - the only person - precisely for life; he who, in my opinion, is the father of everything the wreck of this nation (now you can name it: first not, but now he is a colleague). What is the real advantage of this constitutional reform for people who currently do not have an income, do not have a job and do not know tomorrow what can be lived, since we are not talking about discussing citizenship income in this House at all? [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u86	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u87	Madam President, of course an important step, as is the discussion of the constitutional law of the State, has really succeeded in making it a farce and emptying it of meaning. You see, Article 138 of the Constitution makes sense, or who are we to assume that Article 138 does not make sense and that this second reading of the Constitution must be resolved as you are now resolving it? It is obvious and it is in the eyes of all that the will is to make it pass as a necessity to be carried out as quickly as possible, so that it interferes as little as possible with the most important things, which obviously someone believes to have to do, so that it passes once again as a consequence of the devaluation of the sense of the institutions. This is actually an epilogue, at least of the work that we will do here in the Senate, which is certainly consistent with the premises. Because an amendment to the Constitution is already surprising that it is required by a government and that it is not a parliamentary initiative. It was already seen from the premises, because it is clear that the path that has been adopted has not at all respected the necessity that has been made present several times, that is the fact that ordinary laws, in order to be democratically made, should be shared as much as possible; let alone a constitutional law. The stuttering of Senator Pagliari is worth nothing, and he told us that concrete proposals have never been made on this path. It's not true, and Senator Pagliari, with the ability to trombone from the pulpits he thinks he has, maybe he can tell himself, not the others. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] But it should also be said that a good response in the Emilia Romagna Region Senator Pagliari and his Group have already received it, because 700,000 PD voters at the last regional elections simply turned their backs on him. However he console himself, because a deposit has already had it. Now we'll see the rest. It is true that he does not care, because the reaction was: we have more advisers than the last Regional Council. So you can see that for them it's okay, that it's okay for 34 percent to cast a valid vote and that in the end you find yourself ruling a region where 700,000 people have turned their backs on you. I want to see how they do it. However, here we, at least those who have a greater sense of responsibility, in the operations that we are making sense, must find it, if only for the own dignity and dignity of those who share this thought, but above all for the dignity of those who have given their lives for the Constitution. Moreover, I make a small note on a subject that the Democratic Party, in particular, loves to fill its mouth in the squares. A couple of days ago, in my city, there was a manifestation of the right, to which one of the left was opposed. Then took place a second manifestation of the right, followed by a further manifestation of the left: four manifestations whose theme was anti-fascistism and new fascisms. In fact, it would be much better if the Democratic Party, instead of dedicating itself to such a game, to funambolism, faced reality. What is the Democratic Party doing today to defend certain constitutional principles and values for which the partisans and anti-fascists have given their lives? It should answer such questions and enter into the matter, because democracy - another term on which Senator Pagliari has also given us a vision and, being a professor, should know well - was born in Greece from its practical exercise. The Greeks used the speculative approach, but they had the precise idea that democracy is not a theme that develops theoretically, but an aspect on which one acts. After all, the philosophers who philosophized democracy - the Athenians in particular - had to go elsewhere to exercise their theories. So democracy exists if it is practiced. If it is not practiced, it simply does not exist and it is useless to fill the mouth with so many phrases and swarm into flags. It is useless to follow this path, because anyway the pragmatic aspect of the realization of what is said...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u88	Excuse me, Senator, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u89	Senator Morra, you know that there is no direct way out of this House. Senator Mussini, you can continue. MUSSINI (Mixed). In any case, the knots come to the comb so, if you exercise democracy, you see it, but you see it even if it isn't there. What ultimately makes a form of government democratic? It is fun to see how in this debate, in which the voices of those who support this constitutional reform have been very small, once again there has been a monologue that demonstrates their willingness to contribute. It is fun to see how the mantra is recited that contrasts decision-making democracy, ruler to a whole series of nice innovations and verbal adjectives to give the dimension of the need for a change. First of all, I would like to point out that the Renzi Government has been moving in total freedom for almost two years, already experimenting in practice with the model it has designed in constitutional reform. Now, if in the last two years we have had proof that this does not make him less governable the country and forces him, indeed, to go to fight even in Europe in a sort of approach-detachment - a sort of marital crisis - then it obviously means that the problem of governability is neither in the perfect bicameralism, which has already been overcome in practice, nor in the power of the Government to present laws and to ensure that they have a preferential lane, but it is not even in the freedom of this Government to be legislator and executor at the same time. Evidently it's somewhere else. Maybe it's the inability to rule. Perhaps it is the inability to manage an apparatus like what we have, and indeed it is very complex to manage Ministries, variety and diversity. As far as the area in which I am most competent is concerned, also because of my previous knowledge that allows me to measure the relationship between legislative activity and the enforcement capacity of the law made, I can only bring a resounding example of failure. The government has had the path paved - indeed, if it is flattened - imitating in advance the regulatory process that this reform promotes, i.e. overcoming the bicameralism of equality, with the execution of the law on the school (the Giannini law) exclusively in a Chamber, after dragging the Senate in a waste of time to which, however, it was necessary to give rise, because the Constitution is still this until it is changed with a vote of confidence; a law exactly as the Government considered necessary, a law against which no one could put himself in a way, but which is not getting results even remotely comparable to the promises made by the President of the Council, improvising himself master and jumping in front of a blackboard. The school today is in chaos; the famous staff of reinforcement makes it possible for teachers to arrive that no one has requested: mathematics must be strengthened and music teachers must arrive. It's fine the same, this is the ability to execute the laws that are made with this model that you want to carry forward. Now, I have my own idea: the problem of that law is just the very little - I would say nothing - inability to listen to those who live the world of school and tried to represent it in these classrooms, but it has not been heard at all. If the good morning is seen from the morning, if the future is the excellent relationship, about which Senator Pagliari told us, and the excellent governability that will descend from overcoming the bicameralism of equality and the possibility of the Government to act more quickly and effectively, I would say that we can prepare ourselves for a bright future of misfortune. To this is added the whole path and this I think is the serious thing. The Democratic Party has carried out a bill of constitutional reform on its own. It has been done, discussed, decided, managed, brought to Parliament in the House in which it has a majority prize and has approved it, essentially silenting the activity in the only House that today has some additional requirement of representativeness. I believe that there is a grave fault in this and an unforgivable misconduct because the Democratic Party, which must be democratic in order to remain faithful to its name, is self-fulfilling by declaring that there has been an in-depth discussion, but within the Democratic Party itself. This was an in-depth discussion which, however, did not prevent the Democratic Party from replacing members in the Commission and putting pressure on it, and which did not prevent the latest recent shame that today an article in the "Corriere della Sera" performed in front of all readers. That article says that, after the Senate, there is all the negotiation on the presidencies of the Commission and on the reshuffle of government. This article showed the citizens, as if they needed it, all the misery of a political class and their representatives who are ready to negotiate the content of a constitutional law for some chair and for some more power. We certainly did not need this, and we must thank the Democratic Party for that. I am referring above all to the Democratic Party because its allies are a sort of chameleon aggregation that is now being created and is now dispersed and recreated under various spoils. It is something difficult to define and even less controllable. Therefore, I am referring to the Democratic Party, which, however, has forgotten that that same share of representative capacity - strongly limited by an unconstitutional electoral law, even more unconstitutional in the House, but in any case unconstitutional because none of us can say that we have been chosen - that each of the individual Senators of the Democratic Party has represented pro quota a number of citizens that is equal to the one representing another senator. So, with this capacity for internal discussion, in reality, he slaps a very large part of Italians. We must say that the forces that are in opposition today are put together, however they represent a very large part of Italians who have been unable to say anything. This is the most serious aspect, that is to say, to think of absolving oneself and paying for its responsibilities, simply by banning an internal debate. We are not interested in your internal debate, because this is not democracy. Democracy is not the internal debate, but the collective debate, so much so that there is Article 67 of the Constitution, which I know very well, to which you can also sacrifice something of your life, of your career and of your tranquility, because this is what the Constitution asks: to every individual senator asks to respond for himself before the citizens. It is clear that today, before the citizens, they no longer respond and will not do so in the future, because, as Senator Calderoli, who knows these matters very well, the senators will have to respond in reflection to other elected ones, but certainly not even the Members will respond to the citizens, but to their party leader. If that goes well with the party that calls itself democratic, then I say poor demos and poor cratos, both together. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] In the end, in fact, history teaches us that, however, governing is not commanding and a subject can afford to command, but for a limited time and with serious damage to everyone. Among other things, we are a people that is difficult to command; it is certainly easier to command for limited times than to govern, but maybe it ends up that the one who commands it is hung by the feet. Today we find ourselves faced with a country before which a narrative of this constitutional reform is made with a whole series of mystifications, including savings. There is no savings; it is a bit like what was to be achieved with the Provinces, so everyone expected the benefit of seeing people in the Provinces enlivened to plug holes in the courts, schools or elsewhere. No, this does not happen or at least not in the Province of Reggio Emilia; perhaps others are more fortunate. We are also talking about a reduction in the number of Members. Curiously, the number of Members of the House is not reduced; curiously, the House is the branch of Parliament which also has the largest expenditure, because the ratio of expenditure between the House and the Senate is worth 1 to 5, i.e. where the Senate spends 8 million the House spends 40. This means that the reduction of expenditure is also a ridiculous mockery, which also makes the idea that democracy is a cost pass. This also certainly does not help us and goes against everything that has been preached and that continues to be preached in these classrooms: I am referring to the first thing we say every time we encounter difficulties in law-making, that is, that we must educate the community, society. Very well, we are educating you that everything that leads to a democratic choice drawn up according to democratic mechanisms has a cost, so it is worth reducing it and having a deciding, ruling democracy. We will see, because we still have several surprises before we close our doors; we will see how this famous ruling democracy will resolve the problems of civil unions, we will see it very soon. In short, this is a scenario in which everything could be done except to put a hand in the Constitution, or rather to tamper with the Constitution. There is no legitimacy of the Chambers, because the Constitutional Court has told us that we have a representative capacity of the compromised elected. We have said so, and as a result, that popular sovereignty, which of us really feel that we can exercise it? There has been no constituent path at all, but, unfortunately, there is no certainty of freedom of expression either. In the end, if we look at what is happening recently and what the newspapers tell us, there is perhaps no more honor; and the honor in the Greek world is precisely the element on which the authority, the possibility of being warriors and leaders can be based. It is not the courage of those who throw all the chips on the referendum; of those who perhaps in order to bring citizens to vote, will try in every way even to combine, always with the reasons for saving - who knows what funny initiatives will be taken - a referendum that is already being prepared, because already now, in the speeches they hear... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude. MUSSINI (Mixed). I shall conclude, Mr President. On the other hand, there is this great hypocrisy. I believe that we expect very hard times; I believe that the combination of this constitutional law with the electoral law will lead us to suffering that I and so many others hoped could be assigned to the past, and that they should not be repeated anymore. [[Applause from Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u90	Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u91	Madam President, I would also like to thank the only representative of the Government present, to whom I would like only a little attention and my colleagues, even you few who are there. Good thing there is this window open to the outside, represented by those two cameras up there that at this moment open us to the outside, because participation, especially when discussing such important arguments, not for a political force but for all Italian citizens, is fundamental, and participation is missing. I have felt very uncomfortable these days and I feel uncomfortable right now, because I have tried to imagine what approach to have in discussing such an important subject for the lives of all of us and of democracy itself. I tried to look back, what was done at the time of the Constitution's birth and what was done in Parliament even after that. I believe that looking behind our backs, looking at our history to try to avoid mistakes that have been made is an important thing and should be done at this time as well. That is why I am going to read to you the following:'(...) between the middle of 1946 and the end of 1947, the Constitution of the Republic has been examined, prepared and approved in this House. With the present Constitution, which has been in force since 1948, Italy has grown, in its democracy first and foremost, in its civil, social and economic life. At that time there were strong contrasts, even in this courtroom. In April 1947, the first government around Christian Democracy was formed, with the Communist Party and the Socialist Party in opposition. There were very strong contrasts, contrasts that concerned the vision of society, the international location of our country. There were serious issues of contrast, heated confrontation and very strong polemics. Yet, majority and opposition, together, then approved the Constitution. Madam President, when it came to examining ordinary measures or talking about politics and confrontation between majority and opposition, De Gasperi and his ministers were sitting at the government desk. But, Mr. Representative of the Government, when this House dealt with the Constitution, examining its text, the Commission of the 75, composed of majority and opposition, was sitting at the desk of the Government. The Government of that time, the De Gasperi Government, did not sit on the benches of the Government, to underline the distinction between the two dimensions: that of the confrontation between majority and opposition and that concerning the rules of the Constitution. This lesson of a government and a majority that, despite the strong contrast that was there, knew how to maintain and demonstrate, even with formal gestures, the difference between the Constitution and the normal confrontation between majority and opposition, at this moment, is completely forgotten. The institutions are common: this is the constant message that came in that year and a half from a constituent Assembly, crossed - I repeat - by strong political contrasts. As hard as this contrast was, there was the conviction and ability to think that they should approve a Constitution for each other, for themselves and for others. This lesson and this example have been completely abandoned. Today, you of the Government and the majority are making your own Constitution. You have prepared it and you want to approve it yourself, thinking only of your needs, your opinions and your relations within your majority. The Government and the majority sought agreements only within them in the event that accompanied the formation of this profound and radical amendment of the Constitution. The Government and the majority - I repeat - have sought agreements within them and, every time they have modified the text and found the agreement between them, they have armored that agreement. You have systematically ruled out any possibility of examining the opposition's proposals or even just discussing them with the opposition. This is because you did not want to risk changing the agreements within you, your difficult internal agreements. The way in which this Government and this majority proceed - and I stress this once again - was the opposite of the way in which they were followed in this Chamber, in the constituent Assembly, by the Government, by the majority and by the opposition of that time. Where is the moderation of this majority? There isn't any! Where are the moderates? Except for a few sporadic exceptions, there are no exceptions, because moderation is the opposite of the attitude followed in this decisive, very important and fundamental affair, by the Government and the majority. You have moved on, with this foolish reform, contrary to the example of the Constituent, only so that the Government does not fall. (...) Well, this change is wrong and you know it too. With this sensible amendment you have foreseen that most of the rules of this reform will enter into force in 2011. Other rules will still enter into force in 2016, i.e. 11 years from now. For example, the rule that lowers the number of Members will come into force in 11 years, in 2016! You know it's bad, too, but you're trading the 1948 Constitution with a few more months of life for the Berlusconi Government. This is the attitude that marked this story. Once again, on this occasion emerges the conception that belongs to this Government and this majority, according to which the winner of the elections owns the institutions, is its owner. This is a mistake. It is a profoundly wrong conception. The institutions are of everyone, of those who are in government and of those who are in opposition. The serious thing is that, this time, the victim of your conception is our Constitution. I have read, Madam President - and I have done so for the second time deliberately in this House - the speech that was made at sitting No 692 of 20 October 2005 by the current President of the Republic, Sergio Mattarella. 2005! This is an absolutely valid speech in relation to what has been done today. You didn't look around! In this branch of Parliament there are people who were already here in 2005. What did they learn from that experience? To be more arrogant and presumptuous! You've learned this! You have learned nothing from the mistakes you have made. It makes me disgusting that there are people here that until a few years ago I voted too! I sent you here with my vote! And you have returned me with these cards. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ! I'm angry. Do you know why, Madam President? You know, citizens, why am I angry? Do you know workers who are here in the Senate? Because the only glimmer of real citizens who have contact with reality is you, citizens: I mean the assistants, the people who work here. But I have no faith in you. You've lost any glimmer of reason. I am angry because the Constitution, Madam President, is not yours! It's not yours! Mr. Government representative, it's not yours! Who wrote this Constitution? Who are the Fathers and Mothers who constitute this Constitution? I want names and last names. I want people to confront me. And here, in this Parliament, it was not possible. I was in the first Commission yesterday to make my modest speech. I thank President Finocchiaro, who has listened so carefully, and I am also ashamed for you, because your competence, in these years we have been in Parliament, has come out. And then I cannot understand how a person of his culture and his preparation can be mortified to carry on, even as President of the 1st Commission, works like these. I wondered who the constituent Fathers and Mothers are. You see, citizens, nothing has changed within these institutions, except this strange virus that is represented by me, by the 5 Star Movement and by so many others who are also sitting in these benches, both to the right and to the left. True, we have changed our position with respect to what we said (they are all the same); it is not so, you are not all the same, there is someone who has a minimum of dignity. Who are the Fathers and Mothers who constitute this Constitution? A few minutes ago I, who am a careful observer, saw here talking and giggling Minister Boschi with the former president of the Republic Giorgio Napolitano, senator for life. I saw them talking - perhaps I was a little mean and evil and I denounce myself, Madam President - I took a picture, I could not do it, and I violated the Rules of Procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of the fact that it will be written to the record. SANTANGELO (M5S). Thank you, Madam President, I take responsibility. But you know what I thought? So, the constituent Mother is the Woods! How can a person who is roughly the same age as me, even a few years younger than me, presume to be able to change the Constitution which, with its limitations, is the most beautiful Constitution in the world or one of the most beautiful Constitutions in the world? How can a person of the experience of Giorgio Napolitano, who entered here - think - in the second legislature, in 1953, and continuously represented us citizens, how can a person of that thickness not have a minimum of dignity, get up and say: you are wrong! You're wrong! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Why didn't you? So, without prejudice to the concept, what can be said is said by reading his resume, the fact remains that he is the man who has destroyed the intercepts that there have been between State and Mafia. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I don't forget it and we don't forget it! Citizens outside, these people here, perched inside the palaces, are stealing the Constitution from us. Not so much to me that I am forty-three years old but to you; do you have grandchildren, do you have children? I have them and I don't sleep at night because of what you're up to! We cannot discuss citizenship income, which is a fundamental and important measure. What are you doing? How do you respect the health of Italian citizens? I read Article 32 of the Constitution because maybe you don't remember: The Republic protects health as a fundamental right of the individual and the interest of the community, and guarantees free care to the most deprived. No one can be obliged to a certain health treatment except by law. Under no circumstances may the law violate the limits imposed by respect for the human person. I'm only giving you cases. A few months ago I was ill and, as a matter of urgency, I was taken to a hospital in Rome. I was admitted as an ordinary citizen - I didn't say I was a senator - and I was put for a week in a room with six sick people, on a floor where there was only one bathroom. This is the health care you're taking us to! That is the respect you have for Italian citizens! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Since certain moments are sad, I had to return to the hospital during Christmas holidays. Even then, in another hospital in Rome, I waited for a room to be given to me, and, you know, I stayed in the E.R. for 12 long hours and there were 25 of us in a first aid room. Don't you guys have any feelings about this? Don't you have relatives who are ill? Or when your relatives are sick or you're sick, go get treatment in private clinics? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is a constitutional reform made by the caste for the caste! And since it may not be enough, do you have any idea what MUOS is? That gigantic, monstrous building, made up of radars in Niscemi, in the center of Sicily. We do not know what can cause human health the emissions of these huge parables, and then a state that wants to define itself as such draws up forward-looking models, tries to see if emissions can be harmful to health. No, you don't. What does the Government do (it is a responsibility of this Government, not others)? Rather than giving time to the bodies or to those who have to carry out the measurements in order to have certainties and to be able to spread not alarmism but tranquility, serenity and certainty of being able to live in the place where one has chosen to live, what does the Italian State do? Press the times and - it is news these days - asks the United States of America to provide the data. Well, I'm not in! Sovereignty is Italian and it is the Italian State that must take care of its citizens! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Speaking of information, what information have you given about this constitutional reform? What content has been given to citizens? That we will save EUR 1 billion? Beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, Madam President, I say "beep" not to say what I think: the President-in-Office of the Council said about the great "beep"! To say this means to give false information: the Senate budget is 500 million euros and there will be no savings. Citizens will be deprived of the opportunity to participate. And what you've been doing over the years, and the reason I'm here in the Senate is because you've made the citizens of the institutions disinnamor, that you've forced them not to vote anymore. And this is because you, who represent the interests of the caste, are comfortable. Then the citizens must be informed. The citizens must be told what they are saying, it must be said that it is not true that the Senate will no longer exist: the Senate will exist, it will no longer be the citizens' vote to send their representatives here, it will be the regional councillors. In this regard too, I do not want to make all the grass a bundle, but it is an objective fact that the number of convicted and accused within the regional councils is an issue. And these are the people we want to send here? How does a person be a regional counselor and a senator at the same time? How will this senate machine develop, how will it articulate? Who did this project? In life I am an architect, well I want to see the project and the static calculations of this constitutional reform, which are not there! Madam President, this is only the beginning. It's just the beginning, I guarantee it. Because what you are doing is unacceptable, it is unacceptable to me and at the bottom of your consciences you know that it is unacceptable to you too. It is not taking a picture, Madam President, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, it is not making a video to inform as many citizens as possible of what is happening in here telling the truth. That's not violating Senate regulations. It takes all the right mental elasticity. The real violation is this constitutional reform and you know it to the full. Put a hand on your conscience, at night when you sleep think about it, think about everything you're doing and if something can be done differently from here soon and you don't hide behind the referendum, because even the concept that is going on in this referendum is really a huge "beep"! Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the representative of the Government for the attention he has given me and I apologise to the honourable citizens, who are following us from outside, for the bright tones of my speech. That is what I wanted to tell you and how much I ask you to stay on the record. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u92	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u93	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, colleagues and citizens who have the courage to follow this debate, which, according to a completely crazy logic, began this afternoon at 3 p.m., is taking up this evening and, unless you give up, will take up practically all night, and then resume tomorrow morning shortly after it is finished, because we have to do it quickly. The things that agree to the increase in the personal power of the President-in-Office of the Council must be done quickly; the things that the Italians need, on the other hand, can wait. Those who try to speak well of this reform make statements of the following kind: they have wanted to do this reform for many years. Even someone - no less than the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and also the President-in-Office of the Council - has enthusiastically stated that this reform has been planned for seventy years; In a nutshell, then, we wanted to reform the Constitution already two years before it was approved! I have to say that you couldn't shoot it bigger than that! It is true that reforms have been intended for many years now. In 2005, in this House and, of course, in the House of the other branch of Parliament, it had come to pass a reform that reasonably surpassed the perfect bicameralism, specializing in the roles of the House and the Senate, significantly reduced both the number of senators and the number of Members and moderately strengthened the powers of the President of the Council, for which a more rooted form was foreshadowed in the rules of popular investiture, but the government - as the reform under review does - was not strengthened by weakening the other powers. In fact, weakening the other constitutional bodies is a damage; instead, strengthening one in the face of the equal dignity of others can be an advantage for democracy. Well, against that reform the Democratic Party, led by Oscar Luigi Scalfaro, was the first signatory of the great parliamentary motion, among whose supporters there was the president of the province of Florence Matteo Renzi, who worked hard to reject the reform. Now, however, he says that we have been waiting for reforms for many years and today we are finally doing them: we really had done them by completing the parliamentary path, without realizing the frightening forces that have been made today and in the various passages that have been carried out! I remember only two aspects without extending because I do not believe that people are so interested in procedures (underline, however, that the procedures by which laws are adopted that then invest citizens must be important for everyone, even for those who are not particularly interested in parliamentary activity). Well, the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Senate guarantee a very fast passage of the constitutional bill, since this is the second compliant reading of the Senate; in essence, once the text has already been voted (as we examine it today), the guarantees contained in the Constitution for the change of the Constitution itself provide for it to be reviewed a second time. Such a move is expected to be very fast: therefore, it is not possible to table amendments, agendas, preliminary or suspensive questions and so on. There are only two votes, one in the Commission and one in this House. Well, two votes are already too many, because you have to hurry! In the Commission, therefore, we have not been able to vote and in this House we have been forced to a completely insane time, clearly indicating the sovereign contempt of the President of the Council and of those who believe that they support him for the parliamentary activity and the views of the Members. We had for a few hours the presence of a Minister and now we have two very respectable Undersecretaries; perhaps it would be logical, however, for the change of the Constitution to be invested and the Ministers, in particular the Minister for Constitutional Reforms, were present, and not just for a few hours as an act of dignification. This is a first argument in favour. The second argument in favour is that the costs of politics are reduced. But if there is one thing that is expensive it is precisely this reform, because the benefits, from the point of view of saving expenditure, are laughable. The news is that the senators will no longer be paid by the state, but by the regions that will send them here. Besides, there will be the problem of how the mayors will come to the Senate. The reform also provides for the presence of 21 mayors, which is very curious, as it would be normal for the House of a Parliament to be elected by the citizens. That should be the case in democracy; if we are not in democracy it is another thing. Moreover, the normal thing would be that senator mayors were elected by citizens, or - at most - by other mayors. On the other hand, the reform provides for them to be elected by the regional councillors. Think about this: we are talking about regional councillors, who in the first phase of the law's application will not have been elected to serve as senator. The citizens - yes - voted for them, however, thinking that they should be the regional councillors and not the senators, the senator-designators or the senator-mayor-designers. Well, who will pay the expenses these mayors will pay to come from their city to the Senate? The Regions? The municipalities? It will therefore be mandatory for senators to be mayors of large cities. The mayors of big cities - I think of metropolitan cities like Turin, Milan, Naples or Rome - are so senators of law, even in this case without being voted by anyone. They are already presidents of what was formerly called the Province and now it is called the Metropolitan City. She made a big campaign against double commission. For God's sake, no more double assignments. The President of the Council is also the almighty secretary of the main party of the country, however, for goodness sake, the double assignment for others is not good. Nevertheless, when it comes to making a reform as ragazzonata and bad as the one under consideration, it turns out that the triple assignment is fine and also with reference to assignments not least. I think of the mayors of Turin, Milan and other metropolitan cities with tens or hundreds of municipalities. I'm thinking about my former Province, which isn't a city. Luserna San Giovanni and Bardonecchia are not cities, yet, due to the demential reform carried out by this Government, they have become cities. Imagine, they're cities. You are in the middle of the countryside or on the tip of a mountain, yet it is a city. These gentlemen will play the roles of mayor, metropolitan mayor of tens or hundreds of municipalities and also of senator. Think about it. Let's think about the savings you will get. In the Senate budget - let's widen - the voice that concerns senators is, in total, about 70 million euros. The maximum that can be saved is EUR 60 million, because a number of expenses will continue to exist. These gentlemen, in fact, will have to come to Rome and will not be able to do so at their own expense, unless we establish that you cannot be a senator if you are not rich (you could also do so, even if it would not be compatible with our Constitution, but if the Constitutional Charter does not have to be democratic it is also fine to impose that the senators are rich). As I said, savings would amount to EUR 60 million. At the same time, what does the government do to get the votes of an important group? Last Thursday, Minister Delrio signed a gift for thirty years to one of those participating companies that, according to the numerous proclamations of the Renzi Government (which have been repeated for two years without ever having fought nail on the subject), will be subjected to a close because it is necessary to stop with this type of society. Well, the government will reduce the small participants, those that sometimes do not cost. I apologise, Madam President, but I see my microphone flashing, despite having twenty minutes and not ten. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please continue, Senator Malan. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). A close is achieved on the small participating companies and, at the same time, a business of 335 million euros per year, for thirty-four years, is offered to a shareholder (speaking of Autostrada del Brennero SpA). Of these EUR 335 million, 153 million in last year were margin, i.e. profit (i.e. that part which, under competition, could be reduced because each of them is proposed to perhaps lower figures). I repeat: EUR 335 million. But let's just deal with the margin: 152 million multiplied by 34 years means about 5 billion. In practice, the supposed savings that will be made with the future Senate is 133 times less than the single signature made by Minister Delrio to that provision. We could maintain this additional expenditure of the Senate, which I fully agree must be reduced, for one hundred thirty-three years, until the year 2149. And so, already with that signature, we burned a hundred and thirty-three years of savings on the Senate. However, we will start saving from 2150. Too bad, however, that on the same day the Minister also signed another gift to the company Autostrada that is for 87 percent managed by a society of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region, casually presided over by the vice secretary of the Democratic Party - also here new double position - the president Debora Serracchiani. A further 86 million per year, a total of another 2 and a half billion and a total of 8 billion. Basically, before we see the savings from the Senate reform, we're going to have to spend dozens more years, so we're going to start saving in 2200. The third argument in favour of this reform is that the laws will be made more quickly. It is precisely what is needed in Italy: to have more laws made worse, with little representative majorities of the country. Do you need this? Do we need other laws? What laws of the Renzi Government would have improved the situation in the country? We want more, do we want to make them faster? Already now, moreover, we are making them quickly thanks to the procedures used, forcing or violating, at times shamelessly, the Chamber and Senate Regulations and even the Constitution, which is also violated by this rule because the Constitutional Charter says that a measure must be examined by the Commission and the House while the measure under consideration, even if at least the general discussion could be done, at the first passing to the Senate, the most important one, did not see a single vote in the Commission, since the majority feared that they did not have the numbers. So let's forget about respect for the Constitution. Is there a rush to adopt other measures such as the Delrio Act, mentioned earlier? The Delrio law did not abolish the Provinces, but the right of citizens to vote for their representatives in the Province. Some citizens have been completely deprived of this right. The inhabitants of the so-called metropolitan cities have been totally deprived of the possibility to influence in any way, even through the mayors, in the designation of the subjects who preside over the management, with wide powers, of their vast area. Do we need other Delrio laws? We're good! Do we need other laws such as the ius soli, which seem to be designed specifically to attract further immigrants into our country, which cost much, but much more than any citizen with State assistance costs? Do we need this? Do we need to make these measures faster? We have to make other laws like the baby bonus extended to non-EU countries, so one billion went in that direction. A billion of the Renzi government's baby bonus over these three years ends up for non-EU children. This provision, together with so many measures that massacre the family from every point of view, but at this moment I am referring to the economic one, corresponds to another fifteen years of very presumed savings made on the Senate. We therefore arrive at 2215 as a date on which we will begin to feel some benefit from this reform. Of course, it is a mockery and there will never be any benefit from such a reform. On the other hand the ius soli and the other norms aimed at facilitating the entry of foreigners into our country tell us that they serve as they are willing to do those jobs that the Italians are no longer willing to carry out. Now, with the situation of serious difficulties that so many Italians face, there are very few, I believe no one, the works that the Italians are no longer willing to do. Maybe jobs paid one euro per hour Italians are not willing to do them because they would work at a loss. Some desperate third world people are willing to do so. Therefore, if we aim at something worse than proletarianization, at reducing the worker to poverty, immigrants are fine. But there is a risk that a job actually, at least in the hopes of the government, the Italians want to do less and less: vote for the Democratic Party. Actually, who makes you vote for the Democratic Party? Should an Italian vote for the Democratic Party? Should a pensioner vote for the Democratic Party, when he doesn't even give him what the Constitutional Court said he owes him? 18 billion said the Constitutional Court: when it suits it it is cited as a source of wisdom as well as a source of law; however, it is a judgment that must be applied. The government says: the sentence says 18 billion; I give you 2 billion calling it a bonus. Fantastic! This is the way you treat pensioners. But should one vote for the Democratic Party? No. Should you vote for the Democratic Party for a pensioner or self-employed person, since the famous 80 euro bonus for equal income if you are an employee you take it, but if you are a self-employed person or a pensioner you don't take it? So it's probably unconstitutional. Why would they vote for it? So it takes someone to do the job that the Italians don't want to do anymore. This job is to vote for the Democratic Party and then try to import people from the Third World, give them citizenship quickly so that maybe they do the work that the Italians no longer want to do; vote for the Democratic Party. Do we need the government to be able to carry out the occupation of the RAI more quickly, which is a heritage of all? Judgments of the Constitutional Court say that it must be pluralistic expression; instead, with the reform that has recently been voted on, does it become a kind of private property of those who control the Government? Are we in a hurry to make other laws to increase taxes on bank deposits, home, pension funds, savings, professional coffers, CDs and even USB flash drives? Frankly, I don't think we're in a hurry to make any more laws. Are we in a hurry to make other laws such as that on the civil liability of judges who, decades ago, the Italians had asked, by overwhelming majority, with referendum? Then this reform was made which says that, yes, the magistrates respond. They respond except when what they may be accused of concerns the interpretation of laws and evidence and the evaluation of facts. I may be naive, but I wonder what the judge's work is but in assessing evidence and interpreting the rules. If a magistrate does anything related to these two things, it is clearly written in the law that he will never pay anyway. This law is not against the magistrates, but it is in favour of the magistrates who work well to prevent them from being harmed and that their work is rendered useless and vain by the magistrates who instead do their work badly; and it is in favour of the magistrates who work well and the citizens who have the right to be acquitted if innocent and to be right in a civil trial if they are right, and wrong when they are wrong, and it is right that they be condemned if guilty. But nothing, the government was in a hurry to make these rules. We are in a hurry to make other rules like what the government should have done, especially since the PD had the Minister of Justice. In the Democratic Party's election program on the basis of which there is this majority in this Parliament, the Democratic Party had clearly written that some courts had been hastily suppressed by the previous Government, in the context of a bad application of the delegation received by Parliament, had to be restored, clearly written in the Democratic Party's program. Well, when the government was only chaired by a member of the Democratic Party, but without the Minister of Justice of the same party, they didn't. Now that they have both the President-in-Office of the Council and the Minister of Justice of the PD, they have not done so again, despite the fact that it is written on the programme. Well, in the face of this, the aim of the reform of this Constitution is clear: to take away the voice of citizens, to give power to very few people, free to waste the money of citizens to win votes, wealth and personal support. That is why we must say no now and every day as long as there is a referendum in which Italians will have the last chance to save democracy in Italy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u94	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since we are the representatives of the citizens in these buildings, before I begin my speech, I want to give you their voice exactly. Daniele Brando says: "Senator, they are destroying Italy far and wide, but they will never destroy the intelligence of honest people." Enrica Talamonti says: I'd like you to tell them something. For decades we have been the flagship of democracy, with the most complete Constitution and studied by world lawyers. We've become an intercontinental joke. The constituent Fathers revolt in the tomb. So, we are here today to make the white night of democracy, because Prime Minister Renzi, after almost two years of announcements, chatter and lies, finally wanted to give a concrete message of hope to the Italians, announcing during the press conference at the end of the year that will leave politics in case the citizens, next October, will reject with a no the text of reform of the Constitution, strongly wanted by an illegitimate government, not voted by the voters. So we will finally be free from those who have passed the same Berlusconi in overcotanza and pride and has been corroborated first as President of the Republic and then as a senator for life by Giorgio Napolitano, and now is supported in Parliament by the multi-endangered Verdini. The reform Renzi-Boschi-Napolitano-Verdini wants to eliminate the perfect bicameralism, which gave us our Constitution, which the Italian citizens appreciate, what the Italian citizens will defend, wisely conceived by our constituent Fathers immediately after the Nazi-fascist tragedy, considering it the scapegoat of the slowness with which the institutions have tried to give answers to the needs of the citizens, especially in the last twenty years, or at least they have made believe to give answers. The Houses are slow to legislate - it has been repeated several times over recent years - and, therefore, the balance between the powers of the State and the mechanisms of guarantee and protection of minorities and those of the participation of citizens in the legislative process desired by our constituent Fathers must be at once swept away, sacrificed - colleagues - on the altar of speed. One day, yes and the other, you also participate in television programmes and say that this pseudo-reform will bring about a reduction in legislative time. But when it came to approving the fiscal compact or Boccadutric law itself - the last one - you managed to do it anyway quickly, while for anti-corruption you used a thousand four hundred fifty-six days. And civil unions have been waiting for a year for your agreements, because the slowness - ladies and gentlemen - depends on you, on the political choices you make or not. It is not, therefore, bicameralism that slows down parliamentary work. The truth that you do not say, however, is that with this reform, brought by you as a medal to the chest, war can also be deliberated with such a speed that the chills come, since Article 17 of the bill Renzi-Boschi-Napolitano-Verdini will also amend Article 78 of the current constitutional text on the resolution of the state of war. Compared to the current text, it will no longer be the two Chambers, in fact, to decide whether or not Italy will have to participate in a war. And in the new Article 78 it is stated that the Chamber of Deputies shall act by an absolute majority on the state of war and confer on the Government the necessary powers. For the combined arrangement with Italicum and thanks to the unconstitutional majority prize it will be practically the party that will have won the elections to decide with incredible immediacy a hypothetical entry into the war of our country, bypassing those discussions, comparisons, reasonings and, above all, dissensions that in situations such as these it is indispensable to guarantee from the constitutional point of view. This is a change that makes us think further if we think about the international scenario in which we move, made of bloody and bloody conflicts, on all those in the Middle East and, mainly, in Syria, in which sometimes the smoking gun is created specifically, even through false evidence, to justify useless military interventions, as happened when the Sismi of Pollari and the Berlusconi Government realized in 2002, with the American good pleasure, the false dossier on the purchase in Niger of considerable quantities of uranium by Saddam Hussein, implying that the Iraqi dictator had resumed the experimentation and production of weapons of mass destruction. The truth is that, as a whole, this reform will enable those who will find themselves ruling - I hope you are not the PD - to be able to do so by majority vote, in full continuity with the logic that accompanies the action of this Government. That's not what I say; Professor Gustavo Zagrebelsky also said, a few days ago in an interview about "La Repubblica." The Constitution should be the rule of coexistence among all, of all with all; a mutual guarantee. Instead, in our case - says Zagrebelsky - the reform of the Constitution was promoted by the Government, imposed by the Government and voted by the majority of the Government. These figures suggest that this so-called reform of the Constitution is a "bridging" of a circle of interests that has won power and if it wants to hold it tight. I fully agree with this analysis. It is the same turn of interest that the Government and the majority that supports it both show that they have at the moment they approve a decree that saves from bankruptcy four regional banks, Banca Marche, CariChieti, CariFerrara and Banca Boschi - excuses - Bank Etruria [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , protagonists in the past years of a bad management that had already led to a police station, without taking care of the great confusion that reigns with regard to the supervision of the banks. It is an increasingly complicated and heavy confusion that has brought to light the serious damage that has been caused by the entire national credit system to households and small businesses forced to pay damage not due. Ladies and gentlemen, urgent is not the transformation of the Senate into a constitutionalised State-Regions Conference, as has been said several times today in this House, but to remedy the illicit practices of a system that uses the resources of savers and gives productivity rewards to all employees, including managers, without guaranteeing the traceability of the sums collected and invested. This is a system to be eradicated and demolished for the benefit of our country, worthy of much more news. This reform is subtlely presented as a reduction in the cost of politics; however, if savings are really the only goal you want to achieve, it would have been more appropriate to reduce the number of Members as well as the number of senators, as has been said and voted in this House several times, but you have voted against it. In this regard, in the last few days I have seen a banner in which Renzi-Boschi-Napolitano-Verdini reform was promoted, with a message of this type: less costs, more efficiency, more participation. Our constituent fathers and the values that inspired them were sold by you with a banner. Only one feeling should classify your actions, but I let the citizens listen to what, because it is now clear that you do not have them. You must stop telling the lies on which the reform under consideration rests. One of these is totally false, because it is not true that the future senators will not charge any compensation for the exercise of their function, but with subsequent ordinary law they will be recognized an emolument of territorial office, which will have as maximum amount the salary of the mayor, capital of Region, so I do not believe that they will be few change. These are 75 regional councillors and 21 mayors not directly elected by the citizens, plus the former Presidents of the Republic and the five senators appointed by the Head of State. These things, however, Renzi does not communicate them to the Italians in his tweets, it is lacking in this. On the one hand you say that this pseudo-reform will lead to a reduction in the costs of politics, on the other hand you have approved the Boccadutri law on the public financing of parties, subtracting huge resources to the realization of the needs of the citizens and careless of the will of the citizens themselves. Only the 5 Star Movement has renounced to 42 million euros and to date has returned 15,5 million in 130 parliamentarians. You calculate how much you could return. The truth is that with this pseudo-reform you do not cut the costs of politics, but you are cutting democracy; you have already done so by unlocking Italy, imposing drills and incinerators on the local communities that you have silenced, and with the reform on good school, imposing a top model that, by assigning to school leaders an excessive power, does not respect public school and has worsened the quality of teaching. I tell you this as an elementary school teacher that he constantly confronts his colleagues, elementary and other orders. If you wanted to save money, explain to me why you didn't have a problem wasting public funds to force people who have already done them to repeat selective tests, teach and evaluate children for more than ten years. That waste doesn't count for you. What we are discussing here is a reform that is ultimately aimed at saving money, ladies and gentlemen, because the draft constitutional law under consideration, together with Italicum, aims to achieve other objectives: to make politics an even more closed space, further reducing the already limited margins of control of political activity by citizens and guarantee parliamentary immunity to regional councillors, that is to say to the political class most investigated and condemned in recent years. The truth is that this constitutional bill does not appeal to many in this House, but the members of the majority prefer not to be present in this debate and instead guarantee their seats, with the promise of assigning a new office, rather than having a step of dignity and respect towards their own country in not voting for this reform. Having moved the renewal of the permanent committees' offices and offices to immediately after the vote in the Chamber on the constitutional bill confirms the logic and the weapon of the blackmail with which this government still lives, and which occasionally comes out in secret votes. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In fact, this fake reform greatly extends the powers of the Government, because, in addition to the already well-known and abused decree-laws, we would add the bills defined as urgent by the Government, which would be put to the vote by a certain date and without examination and discussion of the amendments. This further centralization, ladies and gentlemen, would be the final death of our parliamentary republic. On the other hand, what could be expected from a draft law which is a strangely governmental initiative and which does not come from Parliament, a place where we should reach, on such a high issue as the reform of our constitutional architecture, the maximum sharing? If, on the one hand, the government is strengthened, on the other hand, Parliament is weakened and its powers of control and investigation are reduced, given that for the combined arrangement with Italicum, the House of Deputies will be the only branch of Parliament to express confidence in the Commission. Article 10 of this text amends Article 70 of the Constitution and states that any bill approved by the Chamber of Deputies shall be transmitted immediately to the Senate of the Republic, which may, within ten days, at the request of a third of its members, arrange to examine it. In the following thirty days, the Senate of the Republic may decide on proposals for amendment of the text, on which the Chamber of Deputies shall give its final ruling. The role of the new Senate will be limited to the simple proposal, without really being able to exercise the legislative function. In my previous speeches on this shameful reform, I asked my colleagues from the majority and government representatives to explain what it meant that the Senate, at the request of a third of its members, could have examined the bill. I didn't get an answer. Is the request of a third of the members sufficient, moreover impossible to reach if only the senators of the smallest regions - and I ask you again, representatives of the government - or does that arrangement hide the need for a subsequent resolution by an absolute majority of the Senate (all else that is easy to obtain, given the proportional allocation of seats) so that the bill can be discussed? Meanwhile, at the government booth, chat nicely with each other! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude. Citizens will not be able to elect their representatives and, despite the slogan "more participation" contained in the advertising banner on "La Repubblica", the same have been increased from 500,000 to 800,000 the number of signatures necessary to request the repealing referendum; from 50,000 to 150,000 the necessary signatures for the presentation of draft laws, without the certainty of being discussed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator. BLUNDO (M5S). I conclude: I am sure that the country is still able to slap the bully in turn by voting "no" to this reform in a referendum that we have inherited from our constituent Fathers and that will have no quorum, that yes quorum zero. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u96	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u97	Madam President, this is a constitutional reform which sees a general debate taking place in the desert of the Tartars and so we can well say that those who have tried wrongly to vote on it in the other readings are not even present. It probably doesn't matter very much. This is a reform that has to do with the change of the country system. This isn't happening, ma'am. This isn't happening at all. It is a reform that was born badly and continued on the worst path and that saw the League present about 80 million amendments to make this country understand that it is at home, those who listen to us and look at us, as if it were appropriate and even necessary to stop the authoritarian drift that lies behind them. The examination of the measure, already in the passage before the Senate, was also spoiled by arbitrary attitudes, excessively discretionary in the interpretation of customs and regulations by the Presidency. I would say that the Regulations were torn at that time in the name of speed and because they did not want to give voice to oppositions at all. This is a constitutional law with a dissimilar content that, if it were to come to the confirmation referendum, would be in violation of popular sovereignty and freedom of vote because it would force voters to vote only one vote on the entire text, even if the changes to the Constitution are varied and disparate and you, in your decrees and trusts, have been schooled in this respect. The government, with the help of a presidency, to say little partisan supported also by technical offices that instead of performing a bipartisan function have put themselves at the service of the ambition of a few (and they have to work) articulating tricks and tricks aimed at obstructing in any way the parliamentary activity of oppositions, has ensured that the agenda dictated by the President of the Council was respected only in order to show the public that he is the man only in charge. This need for change, however, has in fact encountered insurmountable obstacles and has had to clash with the Orthodox positions of those who supported the theory of the unintangibility of the Constitution. Woe, Mr President, if our constituent Fathers really read this text one day. Those who are believers, however, assume that this thing can also happen. The evocative motivations that are put forward by suffrage of the sacredness of the Constitutional Charter are rightly based on respect for the commendable work that was led precisely by them, by the constituent Fathers in the post-war period, as a synthesis of the thought of the different souls who had helped to get our country out of the fascist dictatorship. Far from us, Mr President, do not understand the historical importance and not only that it embodies the fundamental Charter, in particular in its first 12 articles which enunciate the fundamental principles on which our democracy is founded in its declinations of respect for equality between citizens and inviolable personal freedoms; 12 articles and have not always been respected in the course of this work on this constitutional reform. What widespread disease has weakened our country, putting it at risk of an irreversible disease? This haste, this desire to change at all costs. This reform will soon manifest itself for what it really is: a mess, a big mess and we will, unfortunately, see the bad consequences in the near future. The people understood, even after years, the madness of ideological campaigns supported by some political forces to stop reforms such as the so-called devolution, which had been approved and which, after years, had been successful in these Aules to approve, which never came into force because rejected by referendum, a reform, Madam President, which anticipated the times and debates of these years, which provided for the establishment of the Federal Senate, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, changes to the process of formation of the laws and the system of government, providing greater powers to the Prime Minister and interventions on the judicial order. This reform plan, precisely the devolution, was rejected, as already mentioned, with the referendum confirmed on 25 and 26 June 2006. The campaign to vote no was maneuvered in art by those same political forces who, in words, declared themselves in favour of federalism. How many leftists have said at that time about this reform and how many fancies have been told throughout the electoral campaign of the referendum. Madam President, we at the North League have constitutional reforms in our DNA. No one must ever afford to think that our opposition to this text is aimed at avoiding change. But this reform not only represents yet another missed opportunity to change this failed country system, but also hides, behind false good intentions, a real authoritarian drift. Not only is the Senate removed, but also the Regions are deprived of any kind of function, eliminating the competing matter and keeping it at the head of the State. Then we'll see later that this is absolutely not true. Not to mention the distorting effect of the supremacy clause, which provides that the law of the State may intervene on a proposal from the Government in matters not reserved for the exclusive law of the State, when it requires the protection of the legal or economic unit, or the protection of the national interest. And who, with a monocameralism, with a President elected in a certain way, with a Constitutional Court elected in another way, will not always call for national interest? It is a shameful situation, Madam President. Shameful is its path; shameful is the system of carrying it forward, not by a majority but by an iniquity between political forces. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group).]] We are at the expropriation of the institutions. When it comes to expropriation, the technique that comes to mind is that sometimes there are Bonari chords; here there have been several Bonari chords in the secret rooms. The senators will no longer be directly elected by the citizens; instead, it will be a second-degree election, which will see mayors and regional councillors arrive in the Senate. The first renewal of the Senate will see them elected at the same time, after which their election will be linked to the renewal of the Regional Councils. And that's where the merry-go-round begins. It will be a Senate of supernominated people, whatever anyone says; it will be a Senate made up of people who have been trumpeted because it has not been the city council member rather than the chairman of some committee; it will be people who will probably want to enjoy the status of senator in all respects and therefore parliamentary immunity. This is what we will find in the 100 people in this House. The system will be proportional in order to avoid that those who have the majority in the Region will grab all the seats available. In this way, you will avoid having an electoral law for years and years, except then find out of the current one that is an unconstitutional law. When italicum was sold, I believe that some small mistake was made, but, Mr President - I do not address the President of the Senate but President Renzi - or Minister Boschi, who probably had the return home around 8.30 p.m., the wheel turns and politics too. You, Mr Renzi, have sewed on a strong custom dress of your 40% obtained from Europeans, but things have changed and will change again. Dear Mr President, the issue of banks, the issue of spreads, which cannot be changed if it is not known how much, and the issue of the stock exchange, are something which in recent days will prove to be extremely negative for your mandate as President of the Council. Returning to this constitutional reform, its scheme is clear: to remove and deny power to citizens and territories and to focus them on Rome and on a few speculative business elites. Nice system! Completely different from the law we proposed in 2006. It is a reform to replace democratic institutions with the arrogance of power and on this, dear President Renzi, you are second to none at all. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is up to the citizens to stop this drift with courage and firmness and we will certainly see it on the referendary issue. We will try to understand the terms in which all the opposition forces in this House have been able and serious to address it on such an important subject. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a good day in the history of the Republic and it will not be a good day tomorrow either. We are facing one of the decisive steps to substantially change the rules of democracy and precisely because of the importance of the issue and the effects it is destined to produce, this debate would have deserved much more attention, much more method, a high-profile vision and never such an important topic could and should have been bent on political logic and party, the Democratic Party. The Constitution, as we know, represents the cultural and political identity of a people who look at it as a community united in one destiny. I am sorry, Mr President, but our fates do not coincide with this law, for no reason whatsoever. When you decide to change the Constitution you have to wonder if the reform in place by content, method and effects it will contribute to the aggregation, it will only be a moment of sharing or it will represent yet another tearing and occasion of conflict, and this will probably be what this law will bring on the benches of constitutionalists and, consequently, in the world of work. Well, before this question, in the case of the reform in question the split and divisions, the error in the method and the delegitimization of politics are before everyone's eyes and the whole is even more serious and unjust towards the country, because it happens at a time when democracy is suspended, with a government that has never been legitimized by the Italians (truly not even the one before, nor the one before). This is unacceptable. With this logic and thanks to the combined arrangement of constitutional reform and electoral law it is expected that with the vote of one third of the voters this blessed country will be governed. Not only those who have a third of the votes will elect the guarantee bodies until the election of the Head of State. But if we want to highlight all the ambiguities, in the procedure for designating the new Senate, the protagonists are not the citizens but the regional councillors. To this is added the disorder in the assignment of the functions attributed to the new Senate, with the result of obtaining the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism, leaving however unchanged the weight of the Chamber. In this regard, we wondered, during this long marathon linked to constitutional reform, why the House of Deputies had not been touched, at least in its numbers. If we think, then, of the most important questions, concerning the division of competences between the State and the Regions, we believe that this is the worst way of rewriting the Constitutional Charter. You have also made a lot of mess about the Provinces: the question of the Provinces has taught absolutely nothing. You have eliminated only and exclusively the provincial councils, you have weakened and mortified the politics, instead of taking example from the virtuous Provinces, which worked, gave a strong contribution to the citizens and were protagonists in the connection between Region, Province and Municipalities, constituting a very important hinge. You've sacrificed an institution. You don't know what in the name yet. So, here we are, today, having to reply to the President of the Council, who links the fate of his government and himself to the uncertain outcome of the popular referendum, as if the Constitution were the government's toy and did not belong to Parliament or the sovereign people. This is a statement that should have sparked the hilarity of a correct and professional press, which, instead of being correct and professional, sometimes, Mr President, has very little or even nothing, because either it depends on the same powers that hold it up or, simply, it stays out of Palazzo Chigi, with its hat in hand, waiting for it to be filled with public funding: this is another problem and constitutes an addiction. Madam President, we reiterate once again that this reform is wrong and that it will lead to more problems than it wants to solve. It is a reform that has, simply, a political calculation behind it, that President Renzi sees possible from here to a few months, when he goes to do the referendary battle, telling the Italian citizens, simply: For your goodness I have arrived, I am the panacea of all evils. Madam President, one man in command has never contributed to the change of a country. A country's change requires more democracy and greater citizen involvement. Arrogance leads you to think that you can pass over decades of struggles of Italian women and men, who fought for the democracy of this country. So what was the task of the opposition? It was a serious, very serious task, sometimes even too much. Our proposals, those of the opposition, have not even been talked about, you have not even had the desire to listen to us. Oppositions are not heard when the boss commands. Sometimes, to tell you the truth, it has also bothered you to listen to your colleagues. Someone defenestrated it and replaced it, as if this were a soccer game: you saw them run in a boiled way and replaced them... [[The microphone's blinking.]] Madam President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator. The voice was gone. Sorry, be patient... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She hadn't left, but the microphone started flashing, to tell her she only had one more minute. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Not even an amendment, therefore, or an agenda: not even a dream! Calderoli was right: Renzi said that if he loses the referendum, he will resign and will no longer be political. Meditate people, meditate: a "no" saves your life. In conclusion, Madam President, there are three types of politicians. The solid one, with its own volume and shape, the liquid one, with its own volume, but without its own shape and then there is the one in the gaseous state, which has neither its own volume nor shape. Dear President of the Council, Renzi, I believe you belong to the third category. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u98	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I believe that there is a definition that, more than many others, can indicate what this reform is. This is a very brief definition: a missed opportunity. In fact, a good reform could have been made. The 5 Star Movement has presented many proposals, because we are here to reform the institutions. We are the movement of change. We have tabled 200 proposals with as many amendments, some of which I would like to read because their content is what this reform could have been if we had been the majority of the country. There are reforms that are really necessary and felt by Italian citizens, such as the halving of the number of parliamentarians (which would mean an important saving), but above all the maintenance of the constitutional structure with the weights and counterweights, as provided for in the Constitution, and the halving of allowances and salaries. We have already done so since the beginning of the parliamentary term, testifying that it can be carried out with dignity to the parliamentary mandate even by giving up half the salary (we could have taken the opportunity to incorporate this principle into the Constitution). I also recall the exclusion of parliamentary immunity (if it has been abused in the last period and still today because it agrees); the direct electivity of the Senate, the suppression of vitality, the forecast of referendum without quorum and the obligation to discuss the laws of popular initiative. There were, in essence, many proposals that would go in the direction of a useful reform. The real danger is to reach, at the end of this parliamentary term (whenever it comes), a Parliament far worse than what we found in 2013 when we were elected. For an unpredictable irony of fate, the issue takes on an even more dramatic value for myself, considering that I am witnessing the upheaval of the Italian Constitution, for which so many people have lost their lives. I am referring to that same Constitution which was firmly voted, among others, by one of my ancestors, William Cappelletti, a member of the constituent assembly and representative of the same community that I represent. There were two views in Parliament: one indicated the need to give more power to Parliament and the other, diametrically opposed, pointed to the need to give more power to the Government, namely, ultimately, to party parties and party secretaries. On the one hand, there was a legitimate demand for greater citizen participation in the democratic life of the institutions, which put legislative power at the centre, especially in its functions of control and direction of the Executive. The vision that has been opposed to it, represented by this reform, is in a certain way its political response: I am referring to the centralization of power in a few hands, the weakening of the instruments of control over the Executive, the anticipation of a legislative power increasingly relegated to a secondary role of ratifying decisions already taken by the Government. On the other hand, gentlemen, there is no doubt that this is the will of government and majority. We are already witnessing all kinds of interference by the Commission in the beehive of the other powers of the State. It is enough to think of the extraordinary use of urgent decrees, the large number of issues of trust and the arrival in Parliament of even draft laws delegated to government initiative. This is a beautiful example in which, in simple terms, the Government delegates itself to issue a legislative decree that will of course have to strictly respect the stakes set by the Commission itself. On the other hand, consider covering the delicate function of vice-president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the body that more than any other represents the independence and autonomy of the judiciary from the other powers of the State, which is covered by a member of the government itself. Of course, a beautiful example of separation of powers I use to define this reform as useless and harmful. Damaged because the new Chamber of Autonomies will not have any exclusive power in the matter of autonomy. There is nothing similar in the European constitutional landscape. It is damaging because it calls into question, together with the majority prize imposed by the electoral law, the whole set of guarantees provided by the Constitution, increasingly relegating Parliament to a secondary role of ratification of the decisions of the Executive. I will be told that this is a partisan vision, the vision of the 5 Star Movement. Well, let's see what the most authoritative Italian constitutionalists have said about this reform. I'm quoting a few, but there would be a huge slew of them. Professor Lorenza Carlassare: "We are going towards an authoritarian reform, which crushes minorities and stifles dissent." Gustavo Zagrebelsky: "The Senate"? Rather than make a mess of it, it would be better to abolish it altogether. The Boschi bill humiliates Parliament. It is the assisted suicide of the Constitution. This is the President emeritus of the Constitutional Court. We voted for the abolition of the Senate. We have tabled an amendment. Then we turned back and we were the only ones, perhaps along with some other opposition force, who really wanted the suppression of this House. Michele Ainis: "The reform is not clear in several points and can therefore lead to conflicts between the two Chambers on their respective competences." (Applause from the right) Stefano Rodotà: "This is how the republican form is transformed. We will have a Premier and an Executive who take over the constitutional system without effective forms of control. Alessandro Pace: "The Chambers elected in 2013, under an unconstitutional electoral law do not possess the legitimacy necessary to amend the Constitution." But let us take a moment to understand why the Constitutional Court declared the previous electoral law unconstitutional, with reference to the majority prize. I come from Veneto, where the Democratic Party, in the parliamentary elections to the 2013 Chamber of Deputies, took 624.621 votes. The 5 Star Movement in the election of the Chamber of 2013 always in Veneto took 775.777 votes. The Democratic Party was given 22 seats, the 5 Star Movement 10. In this difference lies the unconstitutionality of the previous electoral law. Propria by force, leveraging on these seats that have arrived by virtue of an unconstitutional majority prize, you are putting your hands on the Constitution, which is the most precious asset we have in our country. Who are the constituent Fathers? To whom should Minister Boschi give thanks in view of the fact that this bill will have a very, very large majority in the Senate? I quote some of the "Constitutive Fathers": Azzollini, Verdini, Formigoni, Bilardi, Aiello, Caridi, Barani. They are all convicted, investigated or otherwise involved in judicial investigations for crimes such as association with criminals, corruption, fraud, vote of exchange, bankruptcy, concussion, illicit financing, tax evasion and office abuse. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] All necessary votes and, if they were not there, this reform would not go through. It has been said that this reform will, however, lead to an important saving in terms of the cost of politics. That's not true. It has already been said by my fellow Members and I repeat this because it is very important: the Boccadutri law alone, which gave the parties EUR 45 million no more than a few months ago, costs taxpayers more than the expected savings associated with this constitutional reform, which are approximately EUR 40 million. [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] Renzi had announced to unified networks a billion euros of savings, and this still resounds in the heads of many citizens. She lied knowing she was lying. What will be the powers of the Senate? The Senate will have mostly advisory powers, but there is already the State-Regions Conference for this. But it will slow down the legislative process. He may speak on issues relating to the regions, the local authorities, but the last word is still the House. It elects two judges of the Constitutional Court and then participates in the formation and implementation of EU legislation. Well, are these two typical functions of a Chamber representing local autonomy? What's that got to do with anything? It has been said: at least, the reform reduces the time for the adoption of laws. But we have seen that this reform provides that the Senate cannot affect it, but it can slow down the legislative process even by forty days. But wasn't it supposed to be accelerated? How long does it take for Parliament to adopt a law at the moment? Out of 171 approved laws, 55 are decree-laws and this of course has also slowed down the approval of bill of parliamentary origin. But when there is a political will, House and Senate in this legislature and in previous legislatures have proved to be able to pass laws in a very short time. Fornero law: sixteen days; Alfano praise: twenty days; Boccadutri law: two hours and twenty minutes of discussion at the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Only colleagues from the 5 Star Movement spoke. I repeat, two hours and twenty minutes to pass a law that distributes 45 million euros in the pockets of the parties taking them from the pockets of the Italians. Anti-corruption law, Fat President: 1,456 days. But then the problem is the Senate or are the politicians in it? Mafia, corrupt, condemned will they be outside Parliament? The new senators will enjoy parliamentary immunity and you have not considered any of the amendments we had proposed to limit their abuse. The parties, we know, will be able to appoint senators all those, between regional councillors and mayors, who will also be investigated or collused, and when we give this faculty we know very well that it will be abused. Citizens will be represented in the Senate. Perhaps this is the darkest part of this provision, because the constitutional law refers to a national electoral law that is not there, and refers back to a regional law that probably will never be there. And the majority rejected any transitional hypothesis, that is, that it could find execution until the national electoral law for the new Senate of the Republic appeared and the related regional regulations appeared. Because you have rejected the hypothesis of a transitional rule if not to leave the reform as it is, at least for that part where it reports that however the new members of the Senate will have to be chosen within the regional councils, as well as the mayors. I come to the question perhaps more important. Is there a danger to democracy in our country? I don't know. I know, however, that a Senate composed of appointed and with only advisory powers also unbalances the elections of the guarantee bodies provided for in the Constitution, i.e. the judges of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the judges of the Constitutional Court and even the President of the Republic. Not to mention the possibility of deliberation of the state of war. We know that the House of Deputies can decide by an absolute majority on the state of war and give the Government the necessary powers; but, with this electoral law, this enormous power will in fact be at the head of the President-in-Office of the Council, who will also be the secretary of the relative majority party. The quorum should have been raised, but it wasn't done. In conclusion, the question that arises is: if this is a useless reform, that does not shorten the time, does not save, does not go in the direction of modernity, then why this majority and the Democratic Party in particular want to do it? Cito Furio Colombo, who is not a member of the 5 Star Movement, from "Il Fatto Quotidiano" who declared that the senators of the Democratic Party have fallen prey to a ritovudù. I don't think that's the answer. I believe, however, that a statement from another authoritative member of this Senate, Sergio Zavoli, cannot fail to receive attention when he told the press that we are all under blackmail. If it were true that you are all under blackmail, with the secret vote the majority should no longer be so, because with the secret vote there is no blackmail. In fact, in all secret votes the majority lacked between 15 and 20 votes to reach an absolute majority; and the government has returned to the Chamber on every single secret vote. If this second vote, which is the final vote, were to take place by secret vote, this reform would never come to light. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] All this suggests, therefore, that it is precisely what one of the most authoritative Members of this Parliament has said. Strangely, moreover, we are all witnessing a Government that renews the motorway concessions for tens of billions just these days, postpones the appointments of the Commissions until after the vote on the reform, postpones even the reshuffle of government and even a law on fundamental rights, that on civil unions. Two Presidents of the Republic, Napolitano and Mattarella, in unsuspecting times, took sides against a constitutional reform by majority vote and filed a bill that provided for a necessary two-thirds majority to dismiss a constitutional reform. Well, now their own bill seems to have forgotten. I hope that it will at least come back to the President of the current Republic. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u100	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u101	Mr President, Mr Undersecretaries, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution is the fundamental Charter of the values and principles that characterize a State. The Italian Constitution, which entered into force on 1 January 1948, was voted by a very large majority. It was the result of a long confrontation between all the political forces present at the moment in Parliament and the result of so many battles, so many social struggles, so many humiliations, suffering and sacrifices. The claim to change it in the ways and forms we are witnessing shows a despotic, overbearing and arrogant attitude and raises many concerns both in the method and in the substance. In the method, first of all, constitutional reforms cannot be the subject of coup d'état, but they must be born in a peaceful political climate and in a truly open and constructive confrontation, aimed at improving the text and ensuring that choices are widely shared. I think it is entirely inappropriate to proceed with constitutional reform by majority vote because we cannot ignore the fact that the parliamentary composition of the current legislature is the result of the fact that a very large number of Members and Senators sit in Parliament as a result of a majority award declared unconstitutional by the judgment of Court No 1 of 2014. We cannot forget that this majority is held up by a mass of Members who have been elected by the citizens in another coalition with values and objectives completely different from those you carry out. In addition, a constitutional reform must be the result of a parliamentary initiative in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 138 of the Constitution, while this reform, in essence, has been written and imposed by the Government to a majority that is now servant and slave and accustomed to coups of confidence to vote for everything the Government wants, under the threat of going to the early elections. So much for the principle of separation of legislative and executive powers! All the more so because this is an illegitimate Government, led by a President who has not even been a candidate for elections; a Government born in contempt of popular sovereignty. In democracy it is the citizens who choose their rulers, not the conspiracy of palace. On the merits, I am absolutely opposed to a single-camera system. The second reading of the legislative texts allows for more detailed work; the thought of experts, the opinion of the public, the technicians of the Senate, the work in the Commission and then those in the Chamber, avoid a mountain of legislative castroneries. It is clear that in democracy Parliament is no longer made up of lawyers and a second reading is absolutely necessary and appropriate. The need to shorten the legislative process is a pretext for achieving the same results by intervening on Parliament's regulations. If you really wanted to cut costs, you might as well wipe out the Senate completely. However, while we wanted to eliminate bicameralism as equal, we needed to provide for an adequate system of weights and counterweights. For example, it would have been a good solution to foresee the direct election of the President of the Republic and to give him other powers. The new composition of the Senate, transformed into a non-elective body composed of 74 regional councillors, 21 mayors and 5 senators for life, also raises doubts. I do not know how the mayors of the capital cities and regional councillors will carry out both functions. An idea of this kind could only come to those who never made the regional councilor or the mayor. I overlook the decision to entrust to the senators (not elected) the constituent function, the possibility of electing the President of the Republic, the possibility of electing the constitutional judges, which seem to me constitutional idiocies. A monocameral system, with an electoral law awarding a majority prize to a single party that alone can elect the President of the Republic and 10 of the 15 constitutional judges, risks bringing Italy under the dictatorship of a minority representing less than one seventh of those entitled to vote. Finally, I believe that with your reform, instead of addressing the issue of the functionality of the state, to modify together rules that allow a modern and fluid functioning of its joints, you are choosing to dismantle the very structure of the country. The Regions, with the changes made to Title V of the Constitution, will lose part of their competences; moreover, thanks to the haste and superficiality with which the revision of the competences between State and Regions has been made, the residual ones are often confused and contradictory, determining copious conflicts of competences (more than in the past). The Provinces, first with the so-called Delrio law and now with their deletion from the Constitution, have become second-level administrative bodies, unelected, entirely in the hands of the local political power, without any form of popular control. The municipalities, increasingly impoverished by the cuts wanted by the last governments, are paralyzed and are losing the ability to really intervene in the lives of their citizens, even in the face of emergencies. With this reform, with the electoral law you passed, with the new RAI law, which allows the government to appoint the top public service leaders, we easily realize that the funeral of democracy is being organised. You are building an unbalanced system for the Commission, without counterweights, with a useless Senate that cannot participate in trust. With a government in fact master of the constitutional system that can choose the President of the Republic and choose directly 10 of the 15 constitutional judges. I believe that our party, despite all the goodwill and all the willingness, can only take note of your attitude of arrogance, arrogance and protection in wanting to carry out this law of unholy constitutional change at all costs and without consent. You want the fight at all costs: confrontation on the Constitution, confrontation on de facto unions. You are caught up in a delirium of omnipotence, while the economic situation is that of a country in serious difficulties, in default: companies that close, stagnation, rampant unemployment, banking system to collapse. The situation in our country would require moderation, prudence, caution and responsibility. Instead, you go ahead, take the country to a bitter measure, to break into a referendum. A referendum that you are forced to do because Article 138 of the current Constitution requires it, if the constitutional change is not approved by two thirds of the members of each of the Houses. I'm guessing what you're gonna do. You will play with expressions that go fishing in the populist imagination, such as reducing the costs of the system by deceiving citizens once again. The real economy is done if the Chambers work, if they carry out their duty, if they solve the problems of the country. But don't get your hopes up. You will have to face the referendum on your own, against everyone because you have managed to compact oppositions, even those that are on diametrically opposed positions. You'll lose the referendum. The referendum will be your grave. What I'm sorry is that in the meantime you will also bring Italy to the grave. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u102	Senator Cotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u103	Mr President, it has already been said several times, but it is still worth remembering: this constitutional reform does not at all save on the costs of the institutions. The cut represented by the lower number of salaries to be paid to senators amounts to a figure close to 10 percent of the total costs of the Senate. There would remain the costs for the structures, for the staff, for institutional activities, for pensions, even those to pay for the trips of former senators. The real meaning of this reform is the centralization of power. Only one House that counts, elected with abundant majority prize and with control over the election of the Head of State and Constitutional Court. Meanwhile, the number of signatures needed for the repealing referendums increases, a clear signal of insufferance for participatory democracy. The Senate will only maintain some real functions. But would it not have been better to abolish it directly, or cut costs by cutting wages and numbers of both senators and MPs, according to the proposal of the 5 Star Movement Group? The text describing the new role of the Senate reminds me of an old model of Parliament that brings us back six hundred and sixty years. It was February 1355 when Alfonso IV of Aragon reunited the first Sardinian Parliament. Built on the Aragonese Catalan model, the Sardinian Parliament, more widely called "the Courts," was constituted by three arms called stations: there was the ecclesiastical station, formed by archbishops, bishops, abbots and priors; the military station, formed by nobles, knights and feudal men and the royal station, composed of representatives elected by the cities not infeudated and therefore directly dependent on the royal power. The stations had consultative power, as their deliberations became effective only if accepted by the reigning sovereign. If we examine the role of the new Senate of the Italian Republic, we read, in the new Article 70 of the Constitution, that: Any bill approved by the Chamber of Deputies shall be transmitted immediately to the Senate of the Republic which, within ten days, at the request of a third of its members, may arrange to examine it. In the following thirty days, the Senate of the Republic may decide on proposals for amendment of the text, on which the Chamber of Deputies shall give its final ruling. Practically the Senate can ask to discuss anything, but, with the exception of some limited issues, it will be decided by the House. Well, even in 1355 the Sardinian Parliament could discuss everything it wanted, even deliberate, and without having to make it require one third of the members. But then he decided the ruler. From 1355 to 2016 the ruler would be replaced by a chamber of MPs chosen by party leaders (the capilists, who will constitute the majority of the elected, do not need the vote of preference). The elected, under penalty of marginalization and non-rewarding, will obey their head of party/head of government, which will in fact take on a political importance comparable to that of Alfonso IV of Aragon. And who's gonna elect the senators? The regional councils, with a mechanism that protects the largest party. In fact, the party system captures the choice of representatives of the people. If you want to give the Senate a role of control of the House of Deputies, here is that the choice of controllers is skillfully entrusted to the party system that expresses those who should be controlled. Here again the new Parliament recalls the Sardinian one of 1355: then the most influential members of the arm, the military one, were appointed by the sovereign. If this reform is approved and the confirmation referendum will pass, we will come closer to the times of Alfonso IV of Aragon. I already seem to see, imagining this House in the future, in the face of our President-in-Office, the appearance of the Marquis of Villasòr. President, are you the Marquis of Villasor? Or maybe it's the Marquis of Laconi? These were, in fact, the usual presidents of the Sardinian military station. Perhaps one day our parliamentarians will also be forced, as the last resort of a Parliament that is struggling to free the people from the powerful in turn, to formulate the fateful five questions to the sovereign, as happened twice in the history of that old Parliament. But can five questions be asked to the sovereign in the new Renza-style Parliament? Marquis of Villasòr... I'm sorry, ma'am, I'm done. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u104	It's just that if you want to be president, you have to be regional councilor or mayor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u105	Senator Campanella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u106	Mr President, we have listened to and will listen to in the next few hours to a catalogue of arguments against this revision of the Constitution, so much so that, in imagining this speech, I have tried to understand how I could ask my colleagues to think about it, if anyone among them wanted to reconsider their position, then their favour of this so-called reform, taking into account the alteration that it produces in the balance between the powers that are at the basis of every liberal Constitution, which guarantees a balance that must return to all citizens. As a result of this reform, the Chambers will no longer play their fundamental role, which is to represent the citizens. For decades, attempts have been made to attack the 1948 Constitution in order to shift the balance in favour of the Commission. Last but not least, the centre-right has tried it, and on that occasion the colleagues of the Democratic Party were against it. They now find themselves approving a revision of the Constitution which, beyond the letter and beyond the mechanisms, reproduces that imbalance in favour of the Commission which empties Parliament of substance. In addition to the battle we have fought and will continue to do until the last minute in Parliament, we are obviously preparing for the opposing referendum on this law, calling the citizens to vote not on the person of the President of the Council who, let's say, is very little compared to the institutional architecture of our country, but on the changes in the mechanisms of government of the Italian Republic that this reform would produce where - God forbid - it should come into force. This struggle that we will bring to the streets is a struggle of ideas to let our fellow citizens know what is being done in Parliament. We already know that she will not have friends with all the main mainstream sources of information, televisions for example, that for the laws that have followed in recent years are substantially under the control of party organizations. So we should do a job on the street, talking to people and informing them of the actual content of this revision law. Tonight, however, I made the choice to be a spokesperson. I am convinced of the role of representative of the MP but I found myself last night, in Catania, listening to a boy of twenty-one years who, in presenting this reform to the defendants at the first meeting for the constitution of the committee for the no of the Sicilian Region, expressed, with a mastery and competence (with love, I would say) for the Constitution a series of considerations that I felt right to represent to this Parliament and therefore virtually to the whole of Italy. I'll read them to you: We live in times undoubtedly difficult, dark times for our democracy and for the values on which our civil coexistence was founded. Already with the sunset of the first Republic, with the transition from the electoral system proportional to that of the majority, there has been a surreptitious change in the form of government in our country. Changing the electoral law means potentially having a significant impact on the quality of the democratic life of the State, even without a formal amendment of the Constitutional Charter. From the nineties onwards, not by chance, our country has seen ever weaker parliaments and ever stronger governments (just think about the abuse of the decree of urgency) - which, as you will remember, colleagues, many and many times we have denounced - with artificially constructed majorities through stratagems contained in electoral laws of progressively majority nature: the Mattarellum, first, then the Porcellum and, last, even worse, the Italicum. Majoritarian laws and mechanisms that empty the representation of meaning in order to aspire to such acclaimed governance. Let me close here: governability is useful, but probably what this country needs most is government, which is something else. It is not an abstract capacity, but an effective, concrete action in place; choices that, made in the interests of the citizens and not in the interests of economic groups, improve their state of life and solve the critical issues that history proposes. Instead, here you have sought - I remember since the time of Craxi and perhaps even before (I was then a boy) - the governability. I'm going back to the boy's words. "Democracy has become a merely formal value, an ornament completely devoid of an authentic, participatory, substantial content, as if we were living in the Republic of Democratic Aesthetics, and all this alienates citizens from politics, increases the distance between representatives and representatives and nourishes anti-politics and various populisms, throwing disturbing shadows on the future of our country." Let me make one more point: various populisms and various anti-politics. I urge everyone to pay attention to how anti-political the story of our President of the Council, when he refers, as an argument for the transformation of the Senate of the Republic into the Senate of the autonomous, to the reduction of the costs of politics. The highest costs of politics are the lack of government and the malaise of the citizens. This should be clear to anyone who approaches to rule this country: do not make anti-politics an instrument of government, because every time this happened it was dark times. Back to the boy's words: The constitutional reform of the Renzi Government, the so-called Boschi bill, in conjunction with the new electoral law (better known as Italicum), changes in veiled form the form of government of our country and even its form of state, transforming it into a personalistic and authoritarian regime. An electoral law that gives to a minority the government of the country, with a majority prize that is attributed to the first round to those who will get at least 40% of the votes; if, as is likely, no one will reach that threshold, there will be a ballot between the two most voted lists, independent of the number of votes obtained in the first round. This, in order to know who will rule the very evening of the vote, as Renzi loves to repeat. It is a transition from a representative democracy to a democracy of investiture and plebiscyticity. In a parliamentary republic voters elect their representatives in parliament, not the government. Let's get this over with with with these frequent misunderstandings. In Italy, at least formally, the people do not directly elect the Executive but Parliament, which will vote or then deny the trust of governments. With Italicum, on the other hand, ours will in essence become a presidential Republic. Among other things, the new electoral law does not seem to adhere to the censures of the Constitutional Court in judgment No. 1 of 2014, which declared the so-called Porcellum unconstitutional with its abnormal majority prize, which distorts the element of representation, fundamental in every democracy. And this Parliament, elected by a constitutionally illegitimate electoral law, has not only been dissolved by the President of the Republic, not only by law on ordinary administration, but even has the boldness and boldness to change the Constitution, the social pact on which our life is based in society - let me add: that Constitution according to which the system of election of this Parliament has been declared illegitimate - the Senate will be made up of 95 members elected by the regional councils and will no longer vote for the government; it will no longer be a body elected by the citizens or with members indicated by them, but it will be partitioned among the various parties present in the regional assemblies. I would add that the citizens will give an indication and the regional councillors will have to stick to it. At this point one wonders: but either they are totally sticking to it, and therefore it is an absolutely useless passage, or they do not stick exactly to the indications of the citizens, and then it is a passage that fakes representation and annuls it, and we are talking about a Senate that has supreme legislative powers, waiting for it to be entitled to express itself on the laws of constitutional revision. The boy continues: In addition, the legislative process, despite the rhetoric of simplification promoted by the Government, will become decidedly more complicated: some laws will be approved by both Chambers; others by the Chamber of Deputies alone; in some cases the new Senate will be able to request a new resolution that the House can override, re-approving the law by absolute majority. In short, in order to overcome the equal bicameralism, a confused and messy system is created, which will probably generate a vast dispute between the Chambers in front of the Consulta, slowing down the legislative process rather than accelerating it. In fact, a minority of the country, thanks to Italicum, will become a majority government. The Commission, with the Renzi-Boschi reform, will then be able to do the good and the bad time, expelling Parliament from its functions, even being able to elect the guarantee bodies of our constitutional system, without any respect for minorities. I recall that during the first discussion in this House, it was asked that guarantees for minorities should be included in the text of the Constitution. The majority wanted - and in this sense voted - the rules for the protection of the majority to be accepted in the parliamentary regulations and, therefore, to be granted, obtained by the majority. I take back the reading of the boy's intervention: It is a sinister scenario of the personalization of politics, which goes far beyond the Berlusconism and the renzism we are accustomed to: the demagogic politics of the leader will become a systemic element of our order. A breakdown of the system, an absolute primevalate very dangerous for the country, that echoes, although in different forms, what happened under fascism. Let me note that the state described by the boy is very similar to what we are already living. Today, however, we are in a position (and do so) to try to force and resist the will of the majority, referring to the constitutional dictation. After the reform, this resistance will be, essentially, not only useless, but also no longer based on the Constitutional Charter. The boy continues: "Italicum does not seem so unlike the Acerbo law, Mussolini's majority electoral law in 1923, which allowed the National Fascist Party to obtain a solid parliamentary majority and establish a dictatorial regime in our country." It has to be said that this young man, who is 21 years old, did not study in the good school done by this government, but he studied before and so he found teachers, who were able to describe to him, with a certain punctuality, what happened, at a stage in our country that we tend to forget. On the contrary, I would like to point out something curious: some of my Sicilian fellow citizens contacted me and told me that, in Acireale, the mayor for April 25 decided to make a new edition of the carnival. We have reached this point, namely that April 25 is only a day off and has lost all civil significance, so much so that a politician - because a mayor is a citizen, but also a politician, a man engaged in politics - faced, among other things, with the protests of the ANPI - this did not happen without anyone noticing - decided to continue to transform April 25 into a carnival day. I continue reading the boy's intervention: In the 1950s there was a general mobilization against the scam law, which awarded a majority prize to those who had reached 50 percent plus one of the votes. In short, it gave a bonus of seats to an absolute majority and did not give an absolute majority of seats to a minority of the country. For the record, in the 1953 elections the prize did not start, and the law was repealed the following year due to the wide controversy it had aroused. I mean, they were amateurs compared to the current government. Today almost all scholars of constitutional law agree that there are two forms of political power: the constituent power and the established powers. The constituent power is that power - which tends to be unlimited - which gives rise to the Constitution, outlining the essential features and values on which the order is based. In the Italian legal system he was embodied by the Constitutional Assembly, elected on 2 and 3 June 1946. The powers established are those powers which derive their legitimacy from the Constitution. [[Recalls of the President]] I would ask the Presidency to hand over the remainder of this speech, so that it can be published in today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u107	The Presidency authorizes you to do so, Senator Campanella.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u108	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Thank you, Mr President, and I would therefore like to close by saying that there are young people - not old cubs and conservatives - who have understood the value of the 1948 Constitution. Thank God there are these young people and thanks to them - especially thanks to them - I realize that this further attempt to revise the Constitution, that the distortion in its spirit, is sent back to the sender and, if you want to talk about reforms, you can talk about it seriously, keeping the spirit of the Constitution and its balance. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's enlisted to speak Senator Moronese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u109	Mr President, I have already explained in the past in this House the reasons for my own de-constitutional de-forms. Of course, it is the entire Group of the 5-star Movement, of Chamber and Senate, that has always said "no" and we will say "no" again, because we are firmly convinced that they damage the country and I have no difficulty in saying, with conviction, that I consider them subversive of the institutional structure of Italy. In this House, in my speech on 23 September 2015, I did a bit of a chronicle of how and, above all, where these reforms came from, who wanted them and what means were used. We have already demonstrated amply that this reform has nothing to do with the good of the country and that it is nothing more than a diabolical plan wanted by a national and non-national political-economic power. It is a diabolical plan, however, put in place by a dictator who wants the roadmap to be respected; therefore, it stops the debate and the confrontation with oppositions. We have all seen that the major constitutionalists are clearly and decisively opposed to this reform. We have all shown that the Italian people do not agree and do not want this reform. Today I would like to talk about our Constitution in the broadest sense because, thanks also to the provision of double deliberation by the Chambers with an interval of not less than three months and the possibility of submitting a confirmation referendum to guarantee the sovereign people, there has been time to reflect. This was precisely the objective of those who, before us, had really achieved and done our interests, inserting a mechanism to ensure a balanced counterweight and to give minorities the opportunity to have the time and the strength to change the idea of the majority, obviously involving citizens as well. I know, to appoint the majority to you who listen and that you have the order to vote "yes" to these "crackers" immediately comes to mind the phrase: "the will of the majority must be respected, so democracy works."I ask you: but the partisans who made the resistance, from which then our Constitution was born, were majority or minority? They were minority. And who was the people with? By the fascist and oppressive majority or by the minority? The people supported the minority and together freed the country from a regime and dictatorship of the majority. Since then, the Constitution has protected and guaranteed us rights, dignity and equality. The Constitutional Charter has guaranteed the right counterweights to the various institutional powers and has allowed the Constitutional Court to reject the attacks that, through illegitimate legislative measures, over the years you have tried to bring about. Let us remember, for example, the Alfano praise, that is, the shield to protect Berlusconi from trials, and then the Porcellum, the electoral law that the Constitutional Court rejected with sentence n. l of 2014, effectively rendering the current majority unconstitutional. Despite everything, however, you have managed to do even worse, because the text of these reforms comes from the Government and, therefore, does not come from a parliamentary initiative, coming from somewhere secret, outside Parliament. Since the bill is signed Renzi-Boschi and in view of the events that involved the Minister's family with the rescue by this Government of the Etruria Bank with a beautiful ad hoc decree-law that saved the banks and killed the citizens, we wonder where this text could ever have been conceived, which dismantles the Constitution and makes it sovereign no longer Parliament, but the Government. Who could have given birth to him, since he was not the result of a citizen's requirement, did not come out of a process of participation or an open question in the country? He may have arrived directly from the banker's office at the e-mail address of the President of the Council or the "Minister of Banks." This government has shown that, with its abuse of the decree-laws and the enactment of an excessive number of delegated laws, it has in fact already bypassed Parliament. So, in summary, we have an unconstitutional majority and the abuse of the use of decree-laws and delegated laws. All this always means that the laws do not come from the sovereign Parliament, but from the outside, from other rooms not visible to us where there is no control of the citizens and there is no transparency, Commissions and Reports. The measures come in here, through the government that then asks to be delegated to do everything. It is enough to have control of only one, that is the President of the Council, that builds around itself a group of yes-mans, that everything can be done: bypass the control mechanisms, make appointments to everything spy, occupy the RAI, the Council of State and the Constitutional Court, control the secret services, elect the President of the Republic. With a new Senate, which does not disappear but is no longer elected by the citizens but appointed, the President of the Council will therefore be able to choose them too, which will probably be the most blackmailable, perhaps inquisited and investigated, since, among other things, the list of these subjects, in the Democratic Party files above all, continues to grow out of proportion. The President of the Council will be able to choose them in such a way that, by their appointment as senator, by receiving parliamentary immunity, they may silently obey as a form of recognition. We all realize the danger of what is happening in this country and that we must absolutely stop it. Today more than ever we need, not only to defend the Constitution, but also to relaunch it. If it really had to be changed, it certainly did not have to be to bend Parliament to the will of the government. Instead of making it more usable, for example, popular participation institutions, you have further limited them, making them lose their effectiveness. And this is unforgivable. How? I'll explain. Out of 197 requests for national referendums, 66% did not even get to the vote. A similar speech for the laws of popular initiative, for which the Boschi reform triples the number of signatures needed, despite the fact that since 1979, only 1.15% have been approved by Parliament. I wonder: if the institutions of direct democracy are already so little taken into account by governments that they dictate the parliamentary agenda with decree-laws to be converted with confidence votes, why weaken them further? If you are really interested in involving citizens, why didn't you lower the quorums for referendums? To foresee a new quorum for the validity of the repealing referendum in the event that the request has been made by 800,000 voters, is not at all an advantage for democracy; indeed, on the contrary, it means: to further limit the effectiveness of this institution; to limit referendums exclusively to large parties. An institution of direct democracy, created to guarantee citizens the right to repeal the laws voted by Parliament, has thus been transformed into a tool reserved mostly to the majority groups that those laws have approved. The referendum institutions are the most direct way of enabling the people to exercise their sovereign role. It is a serious damage to the democratic principle and to equality. In addition, for the popular legislative initiative, the number of signatures required for the presentation of a draft law by the electoral body has been raised from 50,000 to 150,000. Article 1, which proclaims popular sovereignty, is evidently violated. You are concerned to justify this restriction by arguing that such proposals for legislation would be guaranteed, forms and limits. This is a mirror for the lark, since it serves in the meantime not to facilitate (as it should) but to limit the popular legislative initiative. People are prevented from participating in political life through direct democracy, to convince them that representative democracy is no longer useful. It is decided to move citizens further and further away from being able to choose their representatives. They de facto take them away from the political life of the country and from the choices that concern them. Zero direct democracy, zero representative democracy, zero participatory democracy! With your reform, the country reverses, instead of moving forward, goes back and damages the only good thing that we have been able to do together as Italians in recent decades. Italy's rights born from the Constitution, with this Government increasingly belong to the past. With the jobs act you have eliminated the rights of workers, with the saving banks you have brought the savers to their knees, with the good school you have killed education, with the unblocking Italy you have removed sovereignty to the territories and brought an unprecedented attack on the environment. Growing up with you is just inequality. The mirage of privatisation of public services, as a widely proven result, did not bring the announced benefits. In Italy, the citizens had, rather than better services, only the dismantling of the social state and the decrease of rights. You are trying to achieve what other governments have tried to do before you. You do it exactly like them, only with different ways and faces, but the goal is always the same; and you serve lies like all regimes. Lies said and constructed in art, which serve to make it appear that things have to go like this, that it is right. In this regard, I would ask you to stop insulting our intelligence and that of Italian citizens with the alleged need to contain public expenditure. What real economic savings will we have with the fake abolition of the Senate? The urgency of containing expenditure for the institutions is very false! The new rules only want to guarantee governance, penalising the representativeness of Parliament, which ends up becoming a mere instrument of the majority of government. Much more savings could have been made by reducing the number of Members and senators or by abolishing the vitalities. Why do you not agree to permanently abolish vitalities if you really want to save the state? Why don't you cut your salary like we do, and we'll set 50% of your salary to microcredit for businesses? No answer can be given to these questions, because you have no intention of reducing your privileges. We speak with the facts and not with the electoral and advertising ads. To date, we have allocated more than €15 million to micro-credit for businesses and over nine hundred companies have already used this financial instrument to share and restore strength and identity to a people that today with this reform is also deprived of its sovereignty. This is an example of reducing the costs of politics; this is the example of a policy that works at the service of citizens We have learned at our expense, that exposing deception is not easy and it is also very tiring: we need to know things and in many cases we need high knowledge. That's why we in the 5 Star Movement oppose the study, the participation of citizens, the increase in relationships. Fundamental relationships to build a network of informed and aware citizens, to change ourselves, our families and even our children who will be proud of us and will not be children of television; we can change, we must inform ourselves and not let ourselves be informed. In order to counter the policy of slogans and lies, we need a participatory and active policy, not to complain but to roll up our sleeves to build; to fight at all costs this dictatorial system that does not want a people of citizens but a people of servants, that must only consume and make profit the lobbies that finance your electoral campaigns and that when you are in the government beat cash. This "deform" of the Constitution wants to bend the citizens definitively to the megamachine of absolute capitalism, a machine that lives of its own life and overlooks the peoples, subjecting the governments that in turn have the task of enslaving the citizens to a will superior to them. A body without form and identity that feeds also on the corruption and greed of men, who no longer wants to take responsibility for the social costs and the rights that must be granted to citizens. This is the real goal of your reforms: to pave the way for the megamachine of absolute capitalism, which is but invisible and intangible, which wants everything to be commodity, even consciences and thoughts, feelings, pain and pleasure. To some of you, everything I'm reporting here may seem like an imaginative, joking reconstruction, but I have proof. The proof is the words of a person who has entered these rooms since 1953 and who never came out of it again, and is still here today. The two-time President of the Republic Giorgio Napolitano, elected in 1953, on 22 April 2015 in this Chamber said the following words: It is perhaps the moment, as never before, after 1989, when it is imposed - as a concrete matter of reflection and then of commitment, the construction of a new world order (...) we have come to the point. We've come to the point, it's true, it's true. We have come to the point: with this reform you want to deprive the people of their sovereignty; after the loss of economic sovereignty, now you also want to take away sovereignty as a people, to cancel national identity, to deprive us of choosing our representatives, subjecting Parliament to governments, which by means of an automatic mechanism are replicated infinitely, always the same. Berlusconi governments are the same as Monti, which in turn are the same as Letta and Renzi, relegating us therefore to the exclusive will of the megamachine, like hamsters in the wheel that spins, without the possibility of getting out. The referendum is the embankment and the brake on all this. Our Constitution now needs to be defended more than ever and, as I said before, it needs to be re-launched; we need to make sure that people get it back. Around 6 p.m. this evening, in the corridors adjacent to the Chamber, I met a senator of the Democratic Party who, looking at me with mocking and filthy air, asked me: "But are you really going to do the night with your speeches?" And I, foolishly and naively, politely, answered him: Why aren't you intervening? He's like, are you kidding me? It doesn't exist at all. Here, these are the people and senators who will vote tomorrow to destroy the Constitution, people who don't care about anything and no one, because they just have to keep sitting on these cracks and taking advantage of their privileges, and therefore obey every single order that dictator Renzi gives them. Here, it is for this petty and despicable indifference of those who should think about the good of the country that I had the strength to fight in these classrooms, with my colleagues and with the 5 Star Movement, in these three years, and that I am moved to continue, because the Italians definitely deserve something more. Defending our Constitution means defending the best part of our country, our treasure, our legacy, defending and honoring all those who have given their lives to give it to us as it is. We will defend it at all costs. We will never give up, and to the Italians I say: high up the hearts. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u110	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u111	Mr President, we are not happy with this constitutional reform. We are not happy because it is diametrically opposed to our vision of the State and this country. I, like my colleagues, am a convinced federalist, even by birth. Your reform is the death of decentralisation, it is the death of federalism, it is the death of the local authority. The spirit that animates your politics is to annihilate the local authority; that's what matters to you or, better, to your head. This is quite bizarre, knowing that he was the mayor and the president of the Province. It is precisely in the local authority that we should find the part of politics that has done so much and can do so much for the country. Instead, your policy, in a demagogic way, seeks to accentuate the fact that evil lies in the periphery. You did it very well with the Delrio law, which created institutional chaos and put the territories in a position not to work, especially the territories and provinces that worked well and that worked. You see, Mr President, we in the League, with all the defects that we can have (and we probably have so many), we certainly, in my opinion and in my humble opinion, also have virtues, for example, that we have always faced ourselves in recent years with our people and our citizens. Among the colleagues sitting next to me, there are those who have been vice mayor or mayor. I myself have had an administrative experience that has lasted almost twenty years, in my Commune, in the Province and in the mountain community, elected by the citizens. (00:09 a.m.) (Crossio followed). One beautiful thing that has been done in this country is when we finally made sure that the mayors were chosen in the electoral booth by the people. The direct election of the mayor was, in my opinion, one of the most beautiful achievements of this country. I remember the scenes we saw in the various municipalities, when there was a synthesis or a sort of pseudo-political-institutional alchemy to put too often the idiot on duty, heterodirect, to be the mayor. With the Delrio law (but this is a very clear will in your political DNA), you have brought us back to those times. At this moment we have Presidents of the Provinces and Provinces at half-service and those that worked did not cancel them, but no longer work; moreover, major political-institutional problems have been created. But this is your way of conceiving the new state, that is to centralize everything, and it is diametrically opposed to what we have always tried to do. Among other things, on constitutional reform we were the ones who proposed to this country a reform a few years ago that anticipated the times and the most bizarre thing is to be able to talk at this time to cameras turned off with some colleague of the PD who curses the day when he listened to someone and voted against the constitutional reform on devolution, compared to which I could also admit that maybe there was some heart attack in Padana sauce a little 'excessive, but like all things could possibly be corrected if there was any excess, but it was certainly better than this crap that you want to feed this Parliament today and consequently the Italians. This, however, is part of a very clear design. What leaves the bitter in the mouth of the citizens I believe is the fact that in this country, however it goes, no matter who is right or wrong, we will come to say that the accounts will go to settle them in the electoral booth with the referendum. In my opinion, facing constitutional reforms and coming to terms with a referendum hoping, on the opposition side, to annihilate a reform that doesn't like it, means that something doesn't work and it's a failure of the country. By the way, at this time it is terribly difficult to talk to the people about constitutional reforms, because people want to hear something else. Probably all of us are on the territory; I am hardly asked how constitutional reform is going and what the new state structure is going to be like; they are asking for other things, like probably all Members of Parliament. If, then, to the economic difficulties, we join the obvious and obvious difficulties of Europe which runs away, Europe which has failed in every respect, this is very worrying. I think I have the presumption of representing within this House a thought and a territory that I can assure you will not appreciate this constitutional reform, as the Delrio law did not appreciate. This I can subscribe to, because I may have many defects, but I know very well the territory and my people and, taking away some old nostalgic, certainly stereotyped on certain issues, I can give you a guarantee for a marginal territory like mine, which for years has founded its socio-economic policy on the will to be the protagonist being decentralized, not only geographically but in a research from the political-institutional point of view. I am referring to this forced research on our part of being able to cooperate effectively with neighbouring states, which is very important to us. But you are so arrogant in your system of managing this country, even when you should have the delicacy, sensitivity, in addressing certain issues of certain territories, to make assessments that are probably very distant to the central state, not only for a geographical issue but also for thought. We will see it shortly in this House when you decide to examine the agreement drawn up by technicians, which must be ratified by Parliament, between our country and the Swiss Confederation: on the legitimate agreement relating to banks, with regard to the black list and the emergence of capital exported abroad in an illegal manner, a correct operation has been made, but the tragedy has been that the trade goods and the sacrifice have been demanded of the territories and the people of those territories, that is to say the frontier and border municipalities, because the only uncertainty in all this operation will be - and we will see it in the House - that the borderers will be penalized and pay more taxes and the territories will no longer have the guarantee of a return, as has always happened. This means that we think at another level: we make agreements and then we write a kind of road map that someone will then go to perfect, not wanted by politics but by the technicians who met and who reasoned as technicians; politics has not been the protagonist. It is probably also our mistake, and I am also critical here with those who - perhaps very close to me politically - have not been able to deal with these issues. We made a mistake! It is time to understand - and I say this without any fear - that, if we want to be protagonists of our future, at this point we must be able to propose something that allows, for example, two neighbouring countries, a region and a canton, to sit at a table, imagine a common vision, political but also social and economic, and bring it to their respective countries to see what the reactions will be. In this case we were stopped and we were wrong. We will try to recover, but I believe that we will have to enter this perspective in these territories, if this vision will belong to our country in the coming years. We're gonna have to do this because people are asking us to react. President, until a few years ago my Province was considered rich, let's say, wealthy; in short, people were busy: in tourism, in commerce and, thanks to the closeness with the Swiss Confederation, in interchanges. Everything was going quite well, with well done infrastructure; we even came to co-finance a work that the state had to do. Think, President, with reference to the only provincial capital not connected to a fast-paced road, we were able to convince 78 mayors to self-tax to make 50 million euros available to carry out an important and strategic work that the central state should have done. Today I can assure you that it pulls a whole new air, and I say it with great conviction, seriousness and concern: it pulls a bad air. It's a bad air because my Province is on its knees economically. In tourism, then, this year we received from the eternal Father an incredible sledgehammer with losses of up to 60 percent, in a Province where trade from the economic point of view is non-existent. You don't see a crane anymore, and that worries me a lot. Building is still and people don't ask me about constitutional reform, they ask me something else that is why it is difficult to deal with constitutional reform in a peaceful way right now. Was that necessary? Probably yes, but not in these terms. We will certainly not give history an example of how to deal seriously, in both Chambers, with the process of constitutional reform. Surely the path linked to the devolution may have been possible luckily, I don't know, but it had another iter. I had no experience in this regard, but a constitutional reform path like this will certainly not enter history books in terms of harmony, sharing, debate or trying to do the best for the country. These, probably on both sides, are perhaps conditioned reflections due to the moment, to the situation, but we are going to create a monster at the institutional level. A Senate that will be messed up, let's put it this way: this evening has been made a long list of the criticalities that the Senate will have, but in the end in this country there will be a unique criticality from the institutional point of view, which added anyway to the economic scenario, I seriously worry about what the next months and the next years in our country will be. Then what is your political philosophy? Go and annihilate the good that was there. I am truly mortified to find myself today with a Province in which operates a good President half-service because he is the mayor in another Municipality, without a Junta, and that he finds himself having to manage, because in the end he still has to manage them, 420 kilometers of provincial roads of which 40 percent above 1.600 meters, with roads that arrive beyond the 2.500 meters of altitude, like the pass of the Gavia, with provincial roads that he must manage with less resources, with less staff, without the support of a Junta. You cracked a system that worked. I do not say this from personal experience but because whoever did it before me, and with another political color, had acted with criterion and judgment because it is a serious Province. First there was Monti who wanted to redesign the Provinces, but he did it on a card and did not understand well what he had to do. Delrio arrived and managed to do worse. It was an opportunity, perhaps, to put together the Provinces, also in Lombardy, Provinces that had been created in this way, for a political alchemy. It was an opportunity to do something and also to have a serious response from the territory, but you managed to make a disaster because you are done so, there is nothing to do. I am deeply opposed to one of the most short-sighted choices that have been made in our country: to think of including standard expenditure in the Constitution to avoid waste. I think it's conceptually wrong. I think that self-government and institutional competition can push local politicians to administer with economy. This should be the spirit that should animate them. It is clear that we cannot think of talking about the magic formula, as is done in countries far more evolved than ours, where we can even call a referendum to understand if we have to pay the canon; we will not do so. That is a joke, but it is the reality of the facts. To conclude, Madam President, since the microphone is flashing, I just wanted to underline a subtle aspect, as I have already done in the Commission, not because I am a fan, for my own personal training, of the Constitution, but as an administrator and for a certain sensitivity in trying to understand the real needs of people and territories. Although constitutional reform is a part of it, I believe that your attitude, your political belief, your political thinking, your political action are against this country and against the citizens. This is my thought, a thought that distinguishes us of the League, because we want something else. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). We are convinced - and I conclude, Madam President - that this country's design must be different. We believe in federalism, I am a federalist convinced like my colleagues; you have another vision, in my opinion completely wrong. If you really wanted to do something other than federalism you could do - and I wouldn't share it - but what you do is so wrong. I believe that unfortunately, in the end, our citizens will suffer the consequences. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u112	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u113	Madam President, I would kindly ask you to be able to hand over the full text of my speech to the documents, given the insufficient time to complete it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u114	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u115	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, unlike someone in this House, I am faced with a thousand doubts. On the one hand, I hear the reflections that come from the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, who speak with the heart and say with great force that this behavior on the part of the majority is not correct; on the other hand, some of the colleagues of the majority support, instead, the correctness of the entire path. Although I was dealing with something else in my life, I can certainly make my very small contribution, which consists in trying to understand what is happening and express my own thoughts about it. As someone said earlier, we often express our thoughts because we are strongly convinced, but sometimes it does not correspond to the true thought, to that thought that should be the rule or that, put in place, could be useful to the country. I am, then, assaulted by many doubts, I ask myself questions: what is right, what is wrong? I realize that many - sometimes even from the Government, not from all the Government - use words that have meaning and meaning, but that become incomprehensible to me; not because they fail to understand the meaning, but because those who say certain things then have a behavior not corresponding in the sense that the words do not correspond to the behavior. There has been talk of political ethics, of largely shared constitutional reforms. There has been talk of the importance of this reform, which would solve many of the problems that plague the country. I ask a question to myself and some of my colleagues in the majority because even if I did something else in my life, I try to make my contribution. How can a mayor have four positions and exercise them at the same time, with the same seriousness, the same preparation and the same wealth, in the interest of the community and the country? I am referring to these 21 mayors, who could be mayors, presidents of that structure called the metropolitan area, senators and could also play a role in everyday life, i.e. they could also be lawyers. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] I don't understand. Excuse me, I say this as a person who until a few days ago was practicing as a professional in another field; I am not a lawyer, a magistrate or a political expert, but I ask myself simple questions to which I would like simple answers, as could be given to a lady in the market, to make her understand what we are talking about, what the intention is and what the path and how two masters could be served. In a previous speech I allowed myself to quote Goldoni when he referred to a Harlequin, saying that not even a Harlequin could serve two masters and instead, inside this House, we demand that not the Harlequin but the future regional councillor, the future president of the Metropolitan Area, the future mayor, the future senator, the future lawyer have five masters! I ask the Undersecretary, who is not interested in this conversation, friends - let me use this name towards someone with whom I have more confidence within the 5 Star Movement - who you speak with your heart. I have seen that one smiles at the moment when someone speaks with the heart, not realizing that speaking with the heart is really talking with the feeling and still having the love of believing in something, while instead those who no longer speak with the heart and no longer have feelings are now bewitched by a God whom we call "Mammon" which for many means nothing, but for us who come from a Christian culture means so much. And so I turn to the PD senators: how can you explain these 21 mayors who might have four positions? How can they deal with their role with serenity and tranquility in the interest of the community, where many times the interest of the community - the Italian people does not coincide with that of the community - the Sardinian, Sicilian, Lombard or Tuscan people? Blessed are you who have now found the right path and you are sure that on this path you will give results in the interest of the country. Someone said there was a threat of early elections. I also heard that Renzi's behavior is incorrect. Madam President, I do not think Renzi's behaviour is incorrect. It is a political assessment that you will allow me to make: I believe that unfairness belongs to those who realize that this behaviour is incorrect and is not useful for the country and continue to support the attitude of the President, who almost always resorts to a vote of confidence. Do you think that this is a correct, serene and respectful way of parliamentarians both of opposition and of majority? Why am I taking this thought at this hour, that is, at midnight and a half? But can we talk about constitutional reforms at this time of night? And to say what? When is there a majority that has nothing to accept or accept? The government here has only one representative, not even interested in the debate, because it knows perfectly well that everything we say in this House will not be transposed in any part, nor will it be heard, nor will it be heard. Why do I say "heared"? Because - I am speaking in general and I am not addressing the Government in this case - we may be interested in tweets, talking about something else or communicating over the phone, but not what they say. We've heard of unelected government. How many times have we said that? Yet no one is scandalized anymore: it has become a normal and physiological fact. If we talk about an unelected government, we hear: What are you still talking about? But you didn't realize that this reflection is out of date and you could even do without it? So what do we want to talk about in this House at midnight and a half? We might ask ourselves how we are, what we have been drinking today, what we are going to do tomorrow, but none of you are interested in seriously building a path that is useful to the interest of the community and the country. No one is interested in taking seriously what someone has to say. Why do I say no one's interested? Because if that were not the case, the behaviour in the Commission would also have been different and there would have been different attitudes towards Members who wanted to say something and did not have the opportunity to do so. Madam President, I really hope that, for the future, we can see a useful path for Italians, but I can hardly see a future or a useful path for Italians, because first of all there is no respect for it. There is no respect, not only within this House, for those who think differently from us and for those who act and try to carry out theses, which could be useful, but who, just because they have a different shirt or have a different surname or a different membership from their Group, have the precept of saying that they are wrong. Madam President, although I will be regarded as a young man of first hand or I will be told that I understand little of politics, I want to say with great force something of which I am firmly convinced. I hope that for the future there will be, within and outside this Parliament, respect and the possibility of taking a position and, when we see that someone who belongs to our group, to our list or to our family manifests a wrong position, there is no difficulty in supporting the political opponent. To conclude, between a correct person not belonging to my party and an incorrect person belonging to my party, I will always prefer - I say it quietly - to support the correct person of the party who is opposed to mine. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u116	Senator Castaldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u117	Poor Senator Castaldi, which I must say more. The papers in my hand contain all the speeches I have made on constitutional reforms. I could make a sumptus. I've been thinking a long time about what to say tonight, but I'm proud to be here at this hour defending the Constitution. I did so last night in the Commission, as far as I could, and I do not want to touch on the points we have explained several times. I only recall the fact that this young, clean and fresh political group, on millions of amendments to this reform, had only tabled 200 amending proposals. And you, who do not actually command anything, but who by a half dictator and four lobby sucklings make you command [[Applause from the M5S Group),]] You have not even accepted a proposal from a force that represents 25% of the Italian population. This is shameful! I remind everyone - but you should teach me - that you should give direction to a government, which is not for nothing called the Executive. [[Applause from Senator Bottici.]] But party secretariats have been very careful to have people elected without a minimum of spine. It's you senators who degrade this House, not the government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The government makes its own, it's made by characters who go with lobbying. We take Verdini as a symbol, but he is like this: it is his nature to do business. You endorse this system. I entered the Senate thinking that the absolute evil was Berlusconi, but I realized that the Democratic Party is exponentially worse than that character. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Rizzotti]] I really don't know what to say. I am very disappointed because we entered the Senate convinced that you lacked ideas. We made proposals and you slammed the door in our faces all the time. Each of us now knows the Regulations as three or four of you (the ones that run the Group, because the others are all buttoncrackers, be it clear) and when the minorities (not only the 5 Star Movement) succeeded, Regulation in the hand, to be stronger than the majority, who was to guarantee - I am sorry that just now President Grasso was replaced - that page of the Rules of Procedure has punctually torn it. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani]] I therefore urge all the boys and municipal councillors of the 5 Star Movement and the civic forces of this country not to give up. Guys, they're spitting on us and they're gonna do even worse because we're going to the election. These are people who don't know what a normal life is and it's logical that, with their claws, they will defend this crap and this slime until death. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We in the Senate are lucky enough to have money to pay the staff of the legislative offices and, therefore, we can defend ourselves. I think of those city councilors on territories that have neither money nor staff and struggle. However, I am proud because in my city, which has 40,000 inhabitants, a group of citizens has come to have 52 people working on work tables. No party can afford this anymore. Your party seats - this has remained - are empty or full of businessmen. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is beautiful. I will always thank that character who made me a little 'awaken my conscience, which is called Beppe Grillo. [[Laughter and comments from the PD Group.]] Laugh, laugh. You are not free men, Remember that. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] I do not go into the substance of the measure, but this is a case in point because we cannot table amendments or agendas. As always, you must communicate false. [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] Connect Santangelo, don't be angry. You gave us this opportunity to intervene because you have to communicate that the spaces were there. How do I use this space? I do this by reading a poem I know by heart and the Neapolitans will forgive me if I don't pronounce it right. I will read it and I hope it will make you reflect on the last night you can defend values. I hope that this hymn to equality, which we have tried to bring in here, will serve something. Unfortunately, only the end of life now gives us equality. With its own laws, this Parliament should aim, if not to achieve equality, at least to smooth out differences, but it does not. Madam President, I therefore read the poem: 'Every year, on November 2nd, there is the custom for the deceased to go to the cemetery. Everyone the adda makes this chryance; each one gives hold of chistu penziero. Each year, punctually, on this day of this sad and half anniversary I too go, and with flowers I adorn the marble loculus 'e zi' Vicenzo. I've had an adventure this year, after I made the sad homage. Madonna! I'm scared. But he did an anema and curing. 'Or done is chisto, dear senators, listen to me: the closing hour was approaching: I, Tomo Tomo, was about to go out, throwing an eye at some burial. "Here sleeps in peace the noble Marquis, lord of Rovigo and Belluno, ardent hero of a thousand feats, died on 11 May of '31." 'O crest cu' a curona' cuppa a tutto... under a cross made 'and light bulbs; three bats 'and roses cu'na list 'and mourning: cannel, cannelotte and six luminos. Just right 'tomb' and stu sire, nce stood 'n'ata tomb piccerella abandoned, and without a lack of a flower; for' sign, sullamente 'na crucella. It crawls on a cross as soon as it reads: "Exposito Gennaro, netturbino." They look at her, who made me dead without a lack of light! This is life! I regretted who had so much and who didn't have anything! Stu porpoise maronna was expecting c al'atu munno was a piece of shit? While I was fantasizing about penzier had been made midnight quakes and the' rested' priggiuniero muorto 'and fear... nanze' and cannelotte. All of a sudden, what am I gonna do? Ddoje shadows alternated 'apart from me... Penzaje: stu made to me it seems strange... I'm out of my mind, am I asleep, or is it fantasy? Ate che fantasia; it was 'or Marquis: there's a tube, 'candy and there' pastrano; chill'ato opened it with an ugly tool; all fetish and cu'na fuck mmano. And chillo is certainly Don Gennaro... 'or die poor... 'or scupper. 'Int' a stu fatto i' nun ce chiaro: so' die and if they withdraw at Chest'ora? They could stand 'a me quase 'nu palmo, when 'o Marchese se fermaje' e banto, s'avota e tomo tomo, calmly, said to Don Gennaro: "Young man! I would like to know from you, you cowardly bastard, with whom to be bold and how you dared to be buried, for my shame, beside me who am a blasphemous man! The chaste is chaste and goes, yes, respected, but you lost sense and measure; your body went, yes, inhumane; but buried in the garbage! I can't stand your stinking neighborhood any more. It is necessary, therefore, that you seek a ditch among your peers, among your people." "Mr. Marquis, it's no fault of mine that no one had done you anymore; my wife has been a mess. What was I supposed to do when I died? If he were alive, I'd give you some attention, take 'a casciulella cu 'e qquatt'osse e proprio mo, obbj'... 'Then, he moved it to a ditch.' "And what are you waiting for, oh ugly uncreated, for my anger to reach the surplus? If I hadn't been a headliner, I'd have already given up violence!" "Famme vedé, piglia sta violence... 'Truly, since, I've skimmed 'and you feel; and I lose 'to peace, I forget I've died and I know how to kill!' "You filthy pig! How dare you, compare yourself to me who are illustrious, noble and perfect births, to envy Royal Princes?". "You here 'Christmas... Pasca and Ppiphania!!! I'm gonna put you in chief... in brains, who's still sick is fantasy?... 'Nu re, 'nu maggistrato, 'nu grand'ommo, trasenno stu canciello ha fatt'o pointo, ha perzo tutto,' a vita e pure' o nomme. So, stay away from me... don't do it or relentless, even close to me, that'shows you? You stinged like the ones you're doing tonight 'and you're doing it on 'and live: nuje simmo serie... we belonged to death! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u118	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u119	Madam President, I could sing you a song, but the voice has not yet warmed me up: I spoke little today. I would like to go back to those nightwalkers who may still be standing, who first I will talk a little bit about merit, because we have not only poetic colleagues and even philosophers, but also, as Mr Castaldi reminded us, great professionals who go on the merits of this reform. First I'll talk about the merit, because there are a lot of things... I invite my colleague to speak to me once I have finished my speech. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I have nothing to hide, it's all transparent, so I'll gladly answer him, but I didn't understand exactly the question; I couldn't hear it clearly. I will therefore talk about merit and then about the method, which in this case has the prevalence. I take up the statements made by the President-in-Office of the Council a few months ago during a governing council of the Democratic Party. In that center Renzi had claimed at least twice a preference for a Senate representation entrusted only to the mayors, therefore with the total exclusion of representatives of the Regions. It would be necessary to ask our Premier, who has a degree in law, even though the Court of Auditors has called him a little expert, if he can really escape that in our legal system it is the regions that are responsible for the legislative power and not the municipalities. Can it escape that legislative power is the most important among public functions and is it not by chance entrusted to elected representatives of the people? What is perfectly logical that an Assembly which intervenes in the exercise of its legislative function, especially on matters affecting regional autonomy, should see among its members the entities representing the Regions? The Presidents of the Regions will not open their mouths, we are convinced, but this aspect is not prominent. We note that, if what I have just said is not understood by the President of the Council, the same does not come out very well. But we believe that Renzi is not totally fasting under constitutional law: he simply does not care about the effectiveness and coherence of the reform, being interested in presenting a new medal to the Italians. Do not doubt that, in fact, if the reform is well received it will be due to you and any defects in the content of the reform will be attributable to Parliament. On the other hand, what can be surprised by a Premier who proposed in the first version that more than 20 senators should be appointed by the President of the Republic? A real crazy one. It doesn't take much to understand it: in a moment of disaffection for politics, Renzi, instead of trying to take care of its causes seriously, chose a target - and you know that politics with tweets has entered a pushed marketing phase, so you appropriately choose the targets - on which to focus the general impopularity, and has identified it in the Regions. They are therefore the regions responsible for all the disasters of the Italian State. The competing power of the Regions is the cause of all evil, forgetting or pretending to ignore all the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, clearly anti-regionalist verse which, for example, leads back to the coordination of public finance by now any state discipline compressing the regional legislative power. It does not pay to have practically destroyed the regional legislative power, this majority, if this really will be, has well thought, in the passage of the bill to the House, to further reduce the functions of the Senate, which now on many aspects are further reduced. The Senate confines itself to contributing to the link between the State and territorial authorities, to helping to connect local and regional authorities with the European Union, to helping to evaluate public policies. These functions were certainly not easily defined, in part new, but it is evident the further marginalization of the Senate, functional moreover to its nature as representative body of autonomy that they want to suppress. I repeat, self-employed people who want to be repressed, and here I address all my colleagues from regions and other local authorities in particular. Why, then, keep a body that does nothing and risks becoming an assembly of non-elected politicians in the Chamber elections, who are offered a consolation prize, which they may take advantage of every other week, going to Rome? In the series: after parliamentary work. This is certainly not the Senate that our Constituents had thought of, nor is it true that the second chambers in the other systems count for nothing, even without uncomfortableing the American Senate, which according to itself is not. The Senate is in danger of counting nothing in Italy. In this sense, the vexed question of the direct electivity of senators does not solve the problem, but could at least mitigate the imbalance of powers that is produced also thanks to the new electoral law for the House. We don't fall into misunderstandings and robberies. It is a silly argument to say that electoral law is different from constitutional reform, when vice versa it is undeniable that electoral law is a decisive part of the structure of the party system, decisively affecting representation and, therefore, influencing the form of government of each country. It is not by chance that today, that is almost done, the inspirations of electoral reform pretend to realize that perhaps, with this system, it will be too easy, for a majority even not high, to elect a President of the Republic. Read in this case the speech by Professor D'Alimonte, published a few months ago in the newspaper "Il Sole 24 Ore." All this we, theoretically less experienced, had long highlighted and deplored. We do not talk about the incredible confusion that will be created in the system of sources, with the presence of equal and non-equal bicameral laws, with matters of competence entrusted to agreements, perhaps opaque, between Presidents of the Chamber and Senate and with possible and predictable litigation before the Constitutional Court, actuated by the Regions, or perhaps even by the State, in defense of their respective competences. It is even obvious that, in the context of such a broad reform, there may also be non-negative elements. Let us consider the possibility, for a parliamentary minority, of seeking a judgment from the Constitutional Court on electoral laws, although Article 13 of the draft seems ambiguous, not being clear whether the judgment of the Court should cover the entire law and whether it should be considered exclusive, precluded a judge from appealing again to the Court, perhaps after years, and while observing that the reference to electoral laws risks excluding all the legislation of outline, for example in terms of the functioning and management of electoral campaigns. Preventive intervention should avoid the legal contortions that the Court had to undertake in order to declare Porcellum unlawful. The point is that one or some aspects of the reform that may be acceptable do not escape from a global judgment that, on the other hand, can only be strongly negative. But we did not decide to embark on a reform process with regard to a plurality of different profiles and institutes, forcing Parliament and tomorrow the Italians to say yes or no about everything in bulk. That was the part of merit. I would now like to talk about the method, which has already been dealt with by many colleagues, but I want to reiterate it and re-explain it as I can, especially to those Italians who may still be listening. This Parliament has been doing the most profound reform of the Constitution since the Republic was born, since the post-war period. But this is the formally less legitimate Parliament, because the Constitutional Court has declared the illegality of the electoral law, the famous Porcellum, in the part where it provided for such a high majority prize. It has already been said by others that the 5 Star Movement has taken a number of votes, at the last national elections, which is extremely similar, almost identical, to that of the Democratic Party. But, despite this, the Democratic Party has twice as many MPs present. So, forgive me for a simple example for the audience who listens to us from home: right now it's like we're playing a football championship and, for a mistake in the rules, there's a team that can play the game instead of 11 with 22 men. Dear Italians, this is the situation in Parliament. At this moment a team can face the games with 22 players. What do you think happens? This is the situation of the Italian Parliament declared by the Constitutional Court, which, of course, did not have the power to dissolve the Chambers, but rather, on the basis of the principle of continuity, it had to maintain its functioning. It is clear to anyone that intellectual honesty would claim to correct this anomaly. I am convinced that if we started a football championship and a team played in 22, there would be a popular uprising and the championship would be canceled. It would correct the rules and start the championship again with all 11 players. So it is not in this case. What I personally do not forgive my colleagues in the majority is not having recognized a situation of profound illegality. You are abusing an illegitimately achieved dominant position. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I stress the verb "abuse" because you know perfectly well that the position is illegitimately achieved and, instead of taking a step back, not only do you not limit yourself to ordinary administration, but you are seriously disrupting the primary rule, which is the Constitution. You could at least have been confined to ordinary administration. It would always have been irregular, but less serious if you had thought of ordinary administration and put in place a regular elective system, which, between the lines, the Constitutional Court had wished and suggested. This is the real flaw with which we should begin any discussion. We're playing with fake teams. We are playing - and unfortunately it is not a game - with a Parliament that has only the form of legitimate, but not the substance. Each of you takes responsibility and that is the thing that I personally do not lose politically. I assume the handy Italians will understand this. And over the next few months, before we reach the referendum, we will explain thousands of times to the banquets and information evenings that this is the situation. In the market, the European Union has repeatedly sanctioned firms that abuse their dominant position. It's normal, it's logical. A dominant position cannot be abused. What to say when the position has been reached in a declaredly illegitimate manner? If you recognize the authority of the European Union and the sanctions it imposes on the various traders, if you have abused the dominant position, then consistency would like you to recognise your position as an illegitimate dominant position. I don't lift my tones and I don't read poetry. The naked and raw situation is this. We will explain it to the Italians on every occasion. You take responsibility for voting for something that will remain in history books as an abuse. I don't know, I don't dare say it's more or less serious than other types of abuse. Usually, when the news uses this word, it does so because of other facts, which very often provoke a deep indignation in the citizen, and of course I speak of sexual crimes. You get scandalized, you literally straighten your hair and body hair when you hear about this kind of abuse and violence. However, gentlemen, in this case we are in the presence of the same thing. We are in the presence of abuse, of violence against a person, the Constitution, which cannot defend itself, and we must defend it. You're supposed to defend her, but you're abusing her. This is, therefore, a responsibility that history books will hold you accountable forever, and I hope that your conscience is truly at peace. On one thing I agree perfectly with what Mr Castaldi said before me: at the end of our days everyone will certainly have to deal with his conscience. At that point there will be no more money, no more power, no more position that can protect anyone. In the end, in the last few hours, in the last few minutes, each of us will have to deal with our consciences, so I hope yours will be really clean. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u120	He's enlisted to speak Senator Piccoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u121	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen present, Mr President of the Government, among the many critical points that this reform of the Constitution presents, I would like to briefly comment on an aspect which is the lowest common denominator of the draft revision. I am referring to the relationship between the centre and periphery, between the State on the one hand and Regions and local authorities on the other; a relationship on which until now has deeply affected the reform of Title V of the Constitution, approved by the Prodi Government in 2001; a new structure designed to develop the territories and enhance the diversity that characterizes from North to South our peninsula and which soon produced the negative effects that those norms have generated: heterogeneity of the regulatory disciplines on the same subject, uneven rights and protections for citizens, deresponsibility in the use of resources, institutional conflicts between the State and the Regions. There was therefore an urgent need for a profound rethink of the system within which the central and peripheral institutions relate. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with Article 114 of the Constitution, the municipalities, provinces, metropolitan cities, regions and the state are defined as constituent bodies of our Republic. The order of this short list is not accidental, but it aims to give prominence to the institutions closest to the citizens, to those institutions that at first instance deal with the more concrete issues relating to the life of all Italians. From this point of view, the dignity conferred by Constitutional Law No 3 of 2001 on local authorities, rewriting Article 114, is perhaps the most positive legacy of that constitutional revision. Today, however, we are witnessing a reversal of the march in which the password "centralize" brings back the hands of many years: centralize eliminating the specificities of the territories, centralize and conform to the unique thought of Renzia. Election law, RAI reform, constitutional reform and public administration reform are tangible examples. The present reform plan addresses the problems that over the years have stratified with an approach diametrically opposed to what remains written in the Constitution. It would have been appropriate to provide for a rationalization of the mechanisms by which the system should be corrected, to disseminate virtuous local experiences and to disseminate good territorial practices throughout the national territory. On the other hand, a neo-centralist approach has been chosen by providing for the centralisation of powers towards the State and the penalisation of territorial authorities. And this conclusion can be reached by considering, on the one hand, the overcoming of bicameralism equal, with the Senate that should become the Chamber of representation of the territorial institutions and of connection between the latter and the State and the European Union; on the other, recalling the new reorganization of the legislative competences between the State and the Regions. From the point of view of functions, parliamentary passages have reduced the list of powers conferred on the new Senate. We agree to differentiate the Senate from the Political Chamber which votes for the government's trust, but differentiate presupposes the attribution of new, different but effective powers. The spirit with which this reform should be conceived, and on which, at least in words, there is politically transversal convergence, is that the Senate must represent the authorities of the territories and carry out a function of control, in some matters, over the work of the State. In practice, however, this is not concretely and adequately anticipated. From the point of view of the reordering of legislative competences, the objective of the reform, once again widely shared, was to eliminate the confusion generated mainly by the category of competing subjects and to simplify the identification of their respective competences with clear and precise rules. However, the text proposed by the Government not only does not guarantee a uniquely interpretable discipline, but shifts the centre of gravity of legislative competences from the Regions to the State. Reading the articles of the reform that concern the tasks assigned to the state law in relation to the regional ones, we find the use of a multiplicity of formulas that could cause great interpretative problems: general and common provisions, coordination functions, general order profiles and still general principles, which become fundamental in other passages. How these expressions can contribute to the simplification of the identification of competences is not known. In addition, a clause is inserted that authorizes the law of the State, on a proposal of the Government, to intervene in matters not reserved to the exclusive legislation when it is required to protect the legal or economic unity of the Republic or of the national interest. It is a rule that creates further ambiguity and gives a new possibility for the State to invade the scope of regional competence. In summary, we are faced with a strong compression of the territorial autonomy: on the one hand, a poorer Senate of its powers to the advantage of a system clearly centralized on the institutional architecture, in which the Government would continue to play a role of absolute primacy; on the other hand, a reduction of the regional competences combined with the imposition of a clause of supremacy in favor of the Government. To conclude, in addition to a state imbalance caused by the reasons so far mentioned, there is concern about the growing inequality of treatment between regions and regions. I refer to the provision in Article 39, according to which the changes to Title V will apply to regions with special autonomy and autonomous provinces only after the revision of their respective statutes and on the basis of agreements between these regions and the State. This expresses yet another dramatic indifference towards those citizens and territories, contiguous to the Regions with a special statute, suffering from unequal treatment and opportunity. The introduction of this provision is devoid of logic, allowing, in fact, the Regions with a special statute - and we understand, unfortunately, the reason - and the Autonomous Provinces to negotiate in the second place additional forms of relief. In this way, the safeguard or supremacy clause - Article 120 of the Constitution refers to it as applicable in the Regions with special autonomy - is conditional, as far as its exercise is concerned, on what will subsequently be decided upon in the revision of the sources presiding over the same special autonomy. This is the indicator of a weak government, unable to resolve economic and social inequalities. The process of constitutional reform was a good opportunity to give a response to those territories, already in themselves disadvantaged by their economic, social and physical characteristics, mostly contiguous with territories that enjoy particular and beneficial forms of autonomy that aggravate an already complex situation. Who will allow this opportunity to be lost in nothing will have to assume the responsibility to explain to those territories and to those citizens the sense of legitimizing a deep difference in performance and opportunities - it is called competitive disadvantage or, if you like, unfair competition - between different areas of the national territory and, at the same time, of banning the principles of equality and guarantee instrumentally. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u122	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u123	Madam President, first of all I would like to reflect with all of you, colleagues in this House at 1.15 a.m. Don't you find yourself experiencing a somewhat surreal situation? We are forced to spend a night following in the speeches, repeating things already said, repeating concepts already expressed several times, both in the Commission and in this House, in the various parliamentary passages and we are still here, at night. In fact, in the end, I do not think anyone can explain why we are forced to have this general night-time discussion. Looks like we're gonna go all night or till 5:00 in the morning, but it doesn't matter. We of the 5 Star Movement are there and we do our part, trying to make a contribution together with those who have understood the danger and the perniciousness of these reforms that someone, rightly, has nicknamed "constitutional slaps." The answer to this question does not exist. It comes back to us on August 8, 2015, when we also spent one night, in a previous parliamentary passage on constitutional reforms, simply for what seemed to be a whim of the Prime Minister who wanted that passage to end before the summer break. Today, by 20 January 2016, we have to ask ourselves why we should spend the night as if we were approving a law of extreme necessity and emergency, as if we were dealing with something really important for Italians. But no: we are here to spend the night listening to us, sleepy means or awake means, the few who are present and who will also be present in the next hours, aware of acting a role. This surreal aspect can really only be perceived by those who are physically present in this House now, or perhaps those who are following us or will see the recordings and will ask us why this night in this House to vote for reforms, asking for a commitment and probably also humiliating Parliament for something that has no concrete and immediate response to what are the actual needs of Italian citizens. I suspect that the timetable was imposed in this way - as we know - on the occasion of the renewal of the offices of the Senate's parliamentary committees, which will take place the day after tomorrow or tomorrow, considering that today is already Wednesday. And that's a suspect who hasn't been escaped. Moreover, the other particularity of this whole debate is that to the various issues, to the various criticisms, to the great because technicians on the fallacy of constitutional reform linked - as we know - also to the electoral law, there has not yet been a comprehensive response. No one, neither the members of the Government, nor the members of the majority who, in a truly disappointing and very minority way, have spoken here, even in this passage, have responded. It would have been useful to hear the objections, responses and replies to the sacred censorship of the constitutional reform system. The answer is not there. If we are to trust - which we do not do - what the President-in-Office of the Council tells us, we understand that this reform must be done because it has never been done, because it is a test of strength that he wants to impose on the country and perhaps in Europe to spend the card that he has managed to do what no one has been able to do before. So we are forced, despite ourselves, to follow you on a reform that is useless, harmful and above all dangerous because - as has already been explained several times - the real risk is in the arranged combination of the reform of the Senate and electoral law, the so-called Italicum that will come into force in a few months, which exposes the country to the risk of an authoritarian drift - and we have said this - to a concentration of powers and to the dismantling of all those systems of balancing and guarantee that the Constitution has so far guaranteed, good or bad, albeit distorted in practice. Then why all this? Why this authoritarian drift or, however, concentration of the power of the entire Italian political landscape towards a party or person? What can this be achieved for? The answers that, in my small, I have managed to give myself are in part those of a more general framework of enslavement even of Italy to much more complex and wide mechanisms, which have to do with the economic balances of the great world finance, as some of my colleague of the 5 Star Movement has just illustrated. Another logical answer could also be that this authoritarian drift, this concentration, the limitation of the spaces of democratic participation can only be functional to the attack and dismantling of another part of the Constitution, the one that has not yet been touched nominally, that is, the first part of the Constitution, in which there are the pillars of Western democracies, the rights of freedom, civil rights, freedom of thought, expression, association and the press. This is the legitimate fear that we remain after the criticisms made at the technical level in the various points and above all the lack of answers on the incongruity of the Senate in its composition, in its functions, on the chaotic situation that would be created if the plant really came into force and overcome - we trust that this does not happen - even the scrutiny of the referendum confirmation. And the reasons for the no will be explained very well - I trust - in all the squares and in all the places when that moment arrives. It is true, however, that this reform was born under the worst wishes. We have all been able to see that those who may today tear their clothes - and have done so in the past - pointing to shortcomings in internal democracy to political formations or heterodirections of parliamentary groups, have been the authors of events that have had - I believe - few precedents in parliamentary history. I am referring to the notorious action of the majority party, the Democratic Party, and the government, to those famous office replacements of two members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, somewhat recalcitrant of the Renza reform system and therefore replaced. It seems to me that there has not been a great debate on the media and civil society in the face of the exercise of the imperative force of the party master, of the government and, at the moment, also of Italy. Those were the wishes in which all this reform project was born and, therefore, it was easy to see, since then, that the will was not at all reformative, really aimed at improving the legislative process or reducing the cost of the policy machine. It was the will to impose force, even by skillfully using the media system and most of it that still supports government action, to finish what seems to be - but will not be, because the referendum will say no, the Italians will say no to the majority - an authoritarian drift. Since everything has already been said by my colleagues and other members of the opposition forces in drawing the absurdity and danger of this reform, I thought I would use the rest of the time I was allowed to make a better contribution than I could in technical and critical terms. I would like to use the words of an appeal of the well-known jurist, perhaps among the most quoted and universally esteemed, Gustavo Zagrebelsky. I would like to conclude my speech, if time allows me, with the reading of what will be one of the reasons by which we will explain the no in the various squares of Italy, from now to the next few months. The functioning of democracy is difficult, close between inconclusion and force. Whoever believes that this is a battle that is fought once every five years at the time of the general elections and that, in the interval, everything is granted to you because you are the "winner," is wrong and is destined to be overwhelmed, sooner or later, by his pride or naivety, misplaced. The first victim of triumphalist illusion is Parliament. If we think that it is only a question of guaranteeing the action of those who "won the elections," Parliament must be the obedient support of this or of these: it must be an organ that executes the will of the Government. Otherwise, it is not only useless, but also counterproductive. The reforms in the field, in fact, are all directed towards the humiliation of Parliament, in its first function, the representative function. What do electoral laws mean, which provide for the choice of candidates through the "blocked lists" drawn up directly by the leaders of the parties or through the farce of the so-called "primary" if not the humiliation of that national function: triumph of the Gregatory spirit or of the voting market. The degraded product, if not damaged, is before everyone's eyes. Thus, while from the institutions it would be expected that they would be brought out of those who occupy her the best of themselves, or at least not the worst, in fact the opposite happens. These institutions lead to the bewilderment, submission, lack of ideas, availability to the powerful, the cowardice concerned or to their career or the authorisation to have a free hand in their affairs on the territory of reference. To be elected, these are the functional qualities of the party in which you enlist. You don't have to think you can make politics. It's not time anymore: time is executive! A clear and humiliating proof of parliamentary inanity is the story that has stirred political life in the last two years: the degradation of the Senate in the Secondary Chamber that should take place with the consent of the Senators. They are told - it has been told - "you are a cost, which does not correspond to any benefit; you are a burden of decision-making, which corresponds not to improvement, but to the deterioration of the quality of legislation. Yes, the Senate answers: that's the way it is." That is how the majority of this House will respond. "Until now we have been useless and harmful parasites and we are grateful to those who have made us aware of them! Delete us!" Let's look more closely at this case as a pitiful death manual or assisted suicide in constitutional life. To a non-superficial observer who does not stop at executive and "governability" rhetoric, i.e. at costs ("Free Senate," it has been said) and at speed (a resolution for each law, instead of two), the existence of a "second Chamber" is well founded on "conservatory reasons." Not conservative compared to the past, as it was at the time of the representative monarchies, when the question of the balancing of the anarchoid and dissipative tendencies of the elective Chamber, inclined because of its very nature, to squander money and traditions to attract voters. Then what you wanted to preserve was the legacy of the past. Today, in the face of the disaster of the waste society, it would be the opposite, i.e. conservative reasons for resources and opportunities for the future, to guarantee the generations to come. The Senate as conceived in the reform multiplies dissipation. It is intended to make an incongruous administrative projection of the second degree of local authorities, which in turn are hungry for public resources. This "administrative" perspective could have been opposed to a "constitutionalist." In the historical Senates, the conservative reasons corresponded to the appointment of director and duration of the office: two solutions, obviously impossible today, but easily replaceable with the election for an adequate duration, greater than the ordinary duration of the Chamber of Deputies, and with the rule of no re-eligibility, as a guarantee of independence from special contingent interests. Here I am opening a parenthesis: it has already been said that, among the many amending proposals of the 5 Star Movement, there were other possible solutions that would certainly have better achieved the stated objectives of this reform, the containment of expenditure, the improvement of legislative procedures, the guarantee of participation of citizens but - as we know - all this has not been. I keep reading: This could have been accompanied by particularly strict requirements of experience, competence and morality, contained in rules of incandidability, incompatibility and ineligibility measured on the nature of the tasks assigned to the elect. Fantasies. The constitutional reformers think of something else: to eliminate a political counterweight, to speed up the times. By not being able to eliminate, purely and simply, an organ, which, as it is considered useless, or even harmful, has been lost in a device whose absurd structural complication - the methods of extracting the new "senators" from the local assemblies - and processual - relations with the other Chamber - will come to light when it should be experienced the operation of the chamber. This was Gustavo Zagrebelsky's appeal, which is clearly reflected in what my colleagues and I have said several times. We trust in Italians, although today there are still few people who know what we are talking about, as can be seen from the data on the knowledge of the content of these reforms, which are still low. Certainly few Italians, apparently, are interested, because they rightly think of the other more immediate needs that Italian society needs. However, the time will have to come when we too will be forced to say that, on important matters, we have an idea and we have proposals. If we are forced to go down on the ground of the referendary battle, to defend the Constitution, which in some way guaranteed democratic principles, despite the upheavals of the Party in recent decades, we will be there to explain the reasons for the no and we believe that the Italians will listen to us well. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u124	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u125	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciampolillo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u126	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, illustrious President-in-Office of the Council, who is late at night and is not present in the House and Members of the Commission, the present proposal for reforming the institutions that is to be imposed is a sad confirmation of the absolute inadequacy of this Government to offer a real hope of getting out of the crisis in which the majority parties themselves have plunged it. The 5 Star Movement, particularly in these days with its campaign for citizenship income, is here in Parliament to remind politics of what society already knows very well, namely that the real problem of the country is not given by the system of election of the senators of the Republic, but by how to assure all citizens the right to dream of a better life. After all, what could be expected from a class of young old people, who grew up in the illusion that climbing to party secretariats was the solution to every problem? Who believes that the economy is represented by the gilded and fake world of finance, without having to notice then the inability to stem the disastrous state on the public debt, on the efficiency of the services and on the protection of the fundamental rights of the citizens? [[Brusio]] I'm sorry, partner, I can't do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u127	Senator Candiani, don't disturb the speaker.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u128	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Thank you, Madam President. Beyond fictions, media propaganda and illusory transformations of precarious contracts into precarious employment relationships, so to speak... [[Brusio]] No, I can't, Madam President. That's not possible! The House is empty and Mr Candiani can go wherever he wants.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u129	Excuse me, Senator Ciampolillo, but it's at a certain distance...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u130	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Why don't you come out? We're talking about constitutional reform; if you have to call, you can go out, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u131	I kindly invite you to finish your speech because unfortunately everyone talks to someone, but it is at a proper distance. However, I invite Senator Candiani not to disturb and move further away because obviously Senator Ciampolillo is particularly sensitive. If you have to call, take him out or, in any case, at a proper distance. Please continue, Senator Ciampollo.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u132	As I said, beyond fictions, the propaganda of the media and the illusory transformations of precarious contracts into precarious relationships of work, so to speak, indeterminate, this Government is unarmed in the face of the real problems of the common people. The latest data on poverty is a terrible warning for all of us. In this context, it is thought that we can deceive the citizens, deceiving them that their problems will be solved by these institutional reforms that will indeed do nothing. The Senate will not be abolished and will continue to represent a huge cost to the country. Emoluments will turn into expense refunds and costs will only increase. All this, however, with the perverse effect of weakening democracy, namely the possibility for citizens to be represented by directly elected persons. There will therefore be a Senate full of anonymous bureaucrats who will respond to the usual party secretariats and who will not have to give account to the citizens of their work. A real monstrosity, typical of a political class that behind the young age of some of its new exponent hides the vices of an old and hypocritical politics. Rationalising costs and returning political commitment to normal are processes that do not require costly institutional reforms. The 5 Star Movement has already done so in a very short time, demonstrating that in life - and therefore also in politics - a bit of good will and moral integrity is sufficient to try to reverse the course and initiate processes of change useful for common development. It seems superfluous to recall the historical origin of the model of perfect bicameralism that we want to destroy here today. Again there is the great deception of this policy towards the country. The laws demand meditated and serious processes of formulation because they must last over time and really resolve the problems of citizens. For a long time, however, every government has deceived the country with complex and costly reform processes that, systematically, do not have time to enter into force that are cancelled after a short time. The development and growth of Italy cannot be entrusted to frantic, superficial and often harmful legislation. It is time to understand that each of us, with our own behavior, must take responsibility for change. We should reduce the amount of legislation to improve its quality. We should take responsibility for improving the regulatory process not so much in terms of timing, but above all in terms of quality. The rationalization of procedures can be entrusted to the simple modification of the Regulations and does not require destructive interventions of our beloved Constitution, weakening or even nullifying fundamental safeguards of democracy and freedom, such as the direct election of parliamentarians and the bicameral system that allows to avoid handstrokes to a dictatorial and false majority like the current one. As many illustrious colleagues have always said, defenders of freedom and democracy, today they bow their heads to the arrogance of a government and its President-in-Office of the Council. The hope of a small chair, the preservation of privileges, hypocrisy and lack of courage mark an unworthy stage in our parliamentary history. Those who were painted as dangerous revolutionaries are today the only defenders of freedom and democracy in our country. It is we of the 5 Star Movement, the supposed amateurs of politics, here today, who proudly deny our consent and our adherence to a real suicide of democracy in Italy. Italy does not need the Government of Renzi and its gang of young old shop friends. Moreover, how can you even imagine entrusting the reform of our institutions to a majority of government such as that represented by the Renzi and Boschi couple? Every day citizens come to know of new turbid details of the relationships of the Boschi family with that Claudio Carboni that, until a few days ago, was described by the Democratic Party as the absolute evil of our country. Probably, after what has been stated by the famous businessman and his colleague Valeriano Mureddu, the dear Renzi will go to his friend Vespa to tell that the P3 was actually an invention of "Libero" or "Il Fatto Quotidiano" and that Carboni and his businessist clique were only benefactors of the Italian economy. Otherwise it is not possible to understand how it is normal to learn of secret meetings at Carboni's studio between Mureddu and the father of Boschi; just that Mureddu, compañero and personal friend also of Renzi's father. The Minister Orlando and his colleague Franceschini will surely be sorry that, after having attacked the Undersecretary Caliendo at the time, asking for his resignation for his relations of knowledge with Carboni, today they can only trust in a sort of general oblivion that makes the Italians forget their sense of contempt for the relations between politics and the world of evil represented, precisely, by Carboni and Mureddu. A real shame! The Etruria Bank is the concrete example of how dear Renzi and his Boschi were raised and of what this majority of government is able to do to protect the strong powers and to damage the poor normal citizens. The Government of hypocrisy and falsehood. A government of freemasons and parasites of the worst Italian society, that of the workers and of characters who, probably, have never really worked in their lives. Sons of a troubled world of businessmen and bankrupts, able to bury banks and businesses. This government is bringing Italy to disaster; it is a government that tells unworthy lies every day to hide its inability even to offer a prospect of improvement to citizens. From these characters, in a normal world, no one would buy even a used car. In Italy, thanks to the Democratic Party, these characters have the impudence of wanting to change our Constitution. They are, indeed, you are deluded poor. The citizens will send them home with the referendum. The 5 Star Movement is already ready for this new challenge. The future is now. The 5 Star Movement will be at the side of all honest and hardworking citizens to build a better Italy, but above all happier. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u133	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u134	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, I would like to address three aspects of this draft law, although it is a little effective to speak in this empty Chamber at this time, knowing that the games are already done, to the great frustration of all. One of the three aspects concerns above all the hegemony of the Democratic Party, which will take place with a Senate so conceived together with an electoral law and other measures that we will soon have to endure. The second concerns the new functions assigned to the Senate, as represented by the territorial institutions on the competences of the Regions to the probable litigation that will result. The last aspect concerns the costs of the new Senate. A premise must be made, the present legislature is born with a reformist intent and with the will of the party that expresses the major opposition groups, Forza Italia, to participate in this process. It is good to remember that the Letta Government comes to light precisely with a Minister of the Reforms of Forza Italia, then a little 'ondivago, and with the establishment of a Commission of wise men who has dealt with in a completed way the passages of the reform of the Constitutional Charter. The reformative will was reiterated by Forza Italia, after the PD Congress resigned Enrico Letta - with a very unusual procedure from a democratic point of view, allow me -, replacing him with Matteo Renzi, never passed through the ballot boxes by a vote of the Italians for the role he occupies. With great responsibility and sense of the State, the leader of the center-right, Silvio Berlusconi, has carried out a pact, although he has been expelled from Parliament on the basis of an unjust sentence, which violated the principle of irretroactivity of criminal law, for which someone in Junta should still feel responsible for the obvious vote on something never happened in the State of the Italian Parliament. The Nazarene Pact, signed by President Berlusconi, has never been an agreement with prescriptive content, but a method of achieving a broad sharing on reforms, which, on the contrary, lacked by the will of the Democratic Party to adapt to its own convenience the changes to the Constitutional Charter and the electoral law. There are several changes - at least 17 have been identified - that have substantially modified that reform pact, directed towards a common and shared path. It should be stressed that a serious path had been taken to substantially change the rules of democracy in a shared way, not as you are doing now. Such a pact should not have been turned to party political logics because of the importance of the issues involved and the sum of the effects to be produced, and let us not forget the way in which this reform has now arrived in the Senate with the mercy of the presidencies of the Commissions that will vote in two days' time. The current Constitution is almost seventy years old and represents the cultural and political identity of our people, not just part of it, which is not the majority of the country. It, the result of an agreement, a compromise between the majority and the opposition of that time, guided democratic life and the political choices that affect our country. Precisely the path of the constituent assembly, even before the Committee of 75, has taught us that writing the Constitution means contributing to aggregation, sharing and not representing lacerations, conflicts or small dictatorships of low-profile characters. We are in the presence of a clear pride of the Government, thanks to a majority prize obtained by the Democratic Party - perhaps if the Government were to listen rather than continue reading and watching, but it is clear that it can do two things at the same time, compliments - a majority prize declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. Thanks to a number of MPs, which was not the representation of the majority of the country at the time of the elections in 2013 and much less is now, the Democratic Party is trying to pass a series of reforms in a way, of course, by its nature, Bolshevik. And let us not forget the betrayal of 50 senators elected in this House who have passed for reasons of personal interest and certainly not for other interests for the country, betraying the mandate of voters. To these constitutional reforms in part, the PD has combined a rewriting of the electoral law, avoiding confrontation, avoiding the debate, placing the question of trust, precisely on the law that writes the rules of the game. An absurd, a unique case in the history of a democracy, now forgotten for the situations we are experiencing. And it is precisely by looking at this constitutional change and the rules of Italicum that a genuine suspension of democracy is born. A minority party in the country can win the elections, obtain a majority prize that allows it to govern, make appointments, elect most of the guarantee bodies, elect the President of the Republic. In this case the parliamentary minority, which, just as at this moment could be a numerical majority of the country, would be relegated to a marginal, insignificant role. There would be no sharing on the issues of great interest, real interest, for the citizens, which is instead fundamental for modernising the country. On the merits of this reform, we have come to a number of changes that make all the intentions that motivated it in vain. It remains a clever and high-sounding title, written only to deal with a confirmed referendum with extreme cleverness. In fact, when assessing the effects of the reform, there are no significant savings on policy costs. And there is no wonder, considering the umpteenth deficit manoeuvres made by this Government. According to the Department of Studies, Senate reform will save 90 million euros a year because the expenditure of the House of Deputies will increase by more than 60 million euros a year, where despite its usual title, reform, the number of Members has remained exactly the same. Was it enough to save money on the stationery? The procedure for designating the new Senate remains confusing and will certainly require a number of implementing rules. The role of representatives of the Regions in the Senate is however elusive. It is expected that senators, who are also councillors or presidents of the Region, or even mayors, will be present without clarifying how they will fully play their roles, and always about savings, everything that can be spared by the Senate will be spent by the local authorities on the diary and maintenance of the new senators. The functions attributed to the new Senate are inconsistent, as it ends the bicameralism parity, it was enough to change the Regulations to speed up the process, but it is attributed a series of powers that make it resemble the unified Conference. Then someone, perhaps Minister Boschi, said the other day: At this point the State-Regions Conference is useless. Both will remain at great costs, just as the Provinces remain, even if the Delrio law has erased them, with enormous costs and a confusion of competences that perhaps the Government should, sooner or later, as long as it lasts, try to resolve. However, we forget that the unified conference costs much less than the new Senate, which would have been better closed. In general, as we have said, the costs of politics do not really decrease. The division of competences between the State and the Regions leads to a neocentralism that will certainly produce a new and articulated constitutional litigation, this time promoted not by the State, but by the Regions. This is a reform that does not tackle in a serious and articulated way the real challenges for the modernization of the country. A constitutional reform must represent a common heritage of all the Italian people, not a moment of division. President Renzi, who - it must always be remembered - has never been legitimized by elections, intended to politicize and personalize the confirmation referendum: if I lose I go home. Ma! And politicization is implicit also in the many tips bestowed by the last law of stability, which intended to acquire the consent of the Italians for next October. The referendum will try to stop the lack of legitimacy of the reform through popular consensus. But there are so many unexploded mines - we mean the taxes frozen for now in the safeguard clauses - that the Italians must know sooner or later that immediately after the referendum, the government will be forced to an important correction of the public accounts, which will lead to new taxes and cuts in public services. Not to mention what Europe is thinking about the Italian Government and we are paying in terms of millions of euros lost on the stock market these days precisely for the jokes of our President. Moreover, it should be noted that a possible yes to the referendum would not correct the many distortions of this reform, but would confirm it by creating a monstrous text, and everyone who understands it knows very well what we are talking about. To comfort these observations is the circumstance that many spontaneous committees are being created in the country for the "no" from left to right, a sign that the reform is inflicted on the most, albeit with different motivations. However, we believe from now on that we must vote no to the referendum on constitutional law even before we support a no to the constitutional referendum and perhaps, we hope, we will not even get there. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u136	She's enlisted to speak Senator Mangili. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u137	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, today the last act is being carried out in which the Government intends to put a blind eye to the participatory democracy of this country. Neither the comments made by a significant number of parliamentarians in the previous passages in the Chambers, nor the externation of authoritative opinions, have served to bring back on their own steps this Government which, at any cost, without looking at the result of this mess, has decided to modify our Constitutional Charter and precisely the role, functions and methods of election of the members of the Senate. The Senate of the Republic, in fact, will not be abolished, contrary to what so far many have understood, but simply delegitimized in its role and this will happen at the hands of a Parliament also illegitimate, as it had already declared the renowned judgment of the Constitutional Court that has pronounced itself on the constitutional legitimacy of the Porcellum. It will not happen, and there will be no significant savings in expenditure from one billion to about 500 million and today, instead, it has been quantified in 80 million euros. Although the 5 Star Movement is always at the forefront in order to achieve the increasing reduction in public spending, the savings achieved by the transformation of the Senate would not be adequate compared to the deficits that would suffer the processes of participation of democracy, lacking the vital functions that the Senate has carried out until today. From the very beginning, we were sceptical about the surreal motives that prompted the government to empty the Senate of all its prerogatives. The cause of all evil, according to governmental sources, is the perfect bicameralism which, in their opinion, makes the legislative process cumbersome, causing unjustified delays in the parliamentary process and, in some cases, even causing backward steps rather than forwards. With a loud voice you have tried to inculcate us that the governability of a country cannot depend on the presence of two Chambers with equal powers that, by virtue of their eternal opposition, do not allow the country to go on. Nothing more wrong. I would like to remind you that there are not too many times when the double reading, necessary for the approval of legislative texts, has prevented the completion of abuses, such as blocking the dangerous reform of Article 138 of the Constitution or the rule that would have sanctioned the municipalities anti-slot machines or, as has been the case in the past legislature, the blocking of the Alfano praise in its first formulation or the approval of the so-called gag law. Even more serious circumstance is that, however, with this reform, bicameralism will not be overcome. As supported by authoritative jurists, the Senate model provided by the current text is not suitable to overcome the bicameralism of equality in the direction of an effective territorial counterweight within the National Parliament, but would configure a Political Assembly with fewer functions, competences and number of members compared to the Chamber of Deputies and therefore with lower democratic legitimacy, but with all the existing begas in the regional political micro-systems. Not to mention the scandals involving local politics, which would be more than enough reason to be against the Senate elected by the regional councils. It would have been more appropriate to take the path of monocameralism, provided that strong internal counterpowers were foreseen, setting the Senate as a mere consultative body without legislative powers. Authors continue to argue that this reform, as well as a mess, is certainly a mess. It would have sufficed to pay more attention to the content of the judgment of the Constitutional Court which declared Porcellum illegitimate to understand that the path taken was wrong. In this regard, it is useful here to recall the work of analysis and comparison carried out in this country by the members of the committees to defend the Constitution, who have already anticipated their referendary battle to prevent the amendment of the Constitution, as well as wanting to repeal the Italicum. According to the Constitutional Court, this Parliament, following the unconstitutionality of the electoral system that led to the election of all present, should have only continued to operate, thanks to the application of the fundamental principle of the continuity of the State, for a limited period. Certainly today he would not have the legitimacy to go so far as to amend the Constitutional Charter. However, wishing to enter into the merit of the reform, it certainly stands out the elimination of internal and external counterpowers and this in contempt of the fundamental principles that inspired our founding Fathers. From the point of view of functions and the number of components, the imbalance between both rooms is absolutely uncompromising. The so-called Senate of Autonomies could no longer prevent the completion of a legislative process by promoting substantial changes, nor could the small number of members in joint meetings be considered decisive in any vote. In addition, none of the senators will be more an expression of a popular vote, violating - in doing so - one of the fundamental principles of the Constitution, namely that provided for in Article 1, which bases our democracy on popular participation. Another serious vice that characterizes this reform is clearly the shift of the axis in the relationship between Government and Parliament, having purposely preferred governance rather than representativeness. From now on, the government will dictate the agenda for parliamentary work. Thanks to Italicum, in fact, the majority of the members of the House will be composed of the elected party that won the elections, even if it will represent a minority in the country. The Senate, on the other hand, will consist of part-time regional councillors, expression of a regional vote, and mayors who will certainly be busy solving the indisputable local problems. No guarantee will be given to minorities within their own country who will not even have the power to request the establishment of committees of inquiry in the state. It is quite clear that the reform of the Senate, together with the reform of the electoral law, will transfer all power to a single political force, if not to a single person, who will have both the control of the House, having obtained the majority of the seats thanks to the majority prize, and the control of the Executive. The government can operate without interference. Long live governability! These observations should lead each of us to contribute so that this text, as it has been conceived, will never see the light, because its path has suffered many interferences from the Government. Given what kind of action is being taken to the detriment of democracy, it seems surprising that this Government, then, expects to barter margins of flexibility, in terms of budgetary policy, with the implementation of this reform that - in his opinion - will allow the country to restart. In all institutional fora we have always argued that there are other reforms on which we should focus, such as the law on conflict of interest and anti-corruption, in order to put in motion a sector now considered by all to be a failure. We should rather reactivate the attention and trust of foreign capital. The 5 Star Movement has repeatedly expressed its opinion on how to reform Parliament in its entirety, without distorting its constitutional balance, reducing the costs of politics in fact. Parliament, of course, in its composition, should be kept clean of convicted persons, who cannot be candidates or elected; moreover, it must include the limit of two parliamentary mandates, so as to allow for a continuous replacement of the national political class. As for the cuts in the costs of politics that the Government continues to announce, the 5 Star Movement has already shown that this is possible, and even immediately, through the half-wage of salaries, the compulsory reporting of the diary and the return of what is not spent, the abolition of the office allowance, the abolition of the end-of-term cheque beyond, clearly, the actual abolition of public funding to parties. It is not difficult to do all this; it depends only on us and our conscience. Our battle won't end with this vote. We, like others, are already ready to mobilize anyone who still cares about the democracy of this country and still believe in the fundamental principles that our founding fathers have handed down to us with the Constitutional Charter. I conclude with a passage taken from Luigi Sturzo's 1957 speech, according to which: The Constitution is the foundation of the Republic. If it falls from the heart of the people, if it is not respected by the political authorities, if it is not defended by the government and Parliament, if it is tampered with by the parties, the hard ground on which our institutions are manufactured and anchored our freedoms will be lost. Let's make sure we don't lose democratic ground under our feet. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u140	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, in the view of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I request that the general debate be closed in advance, pursuant to paragraph 3 of Rule 99, on behalf of the prescribed number of senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u141	The request for an early closure of the general discussion shall be put to the vote by show of hands. Are there any interventions for and against?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u144	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I am opposed to Senator Candiani's request, because I believe that the importance of the work does not justify suspension. I therefore call for this request to be put to the vote and, at the same time, before the vote by show of hands, for the quorum to be checked. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u145	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) [[Laughter.]] The Senate is not a quorum. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 2.06 a.m. and resumed at 2.26 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u146	I would remind you that pursuant to Rule 93, paragraph 3, the request for an early closure of the general discussion was lodged. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u147	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u149	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u150	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). [[Laughter.]] Colleagues, I understand that the time is late, but calm down. I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the bill in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u151	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-562.ana.u152	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 20 January, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 2.27 p.m. on Wednesday 20 January.
