ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u1	The sitting was opened (9.32). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u4	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00515 tabled by Senator Romani Maurizio and other senators, 1-00601, tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators, 1-00640, tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators, 1-00642, tabled by Senator Barani and other senators, and 1-00643, presented by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators, on the contrast to obesity. I call Senator Maurizio Romani to explain motion No 515.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u9	Mr President, according to the World Health Organisation, over the last two decades the obesity rate in Europe has tripled: every year one million deaths and twelve million years of life in poor health are due to diseases associated with obesity and overweight. Ischemic heart disease, hypertension, stroke, type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease and colon cancer are among the diseases where overweight and obesity are involved. Overweight and obesity represent an unprecedented public health challenge for Europe. They have a negative effect on the psychosocial health and quality of public life of the individual, but they also represent a significant cost to public health and, therefore, to the community. According to estimates by the World Health Organisation, obesity in adults is responsible in Europe for 6% of health care expenditure. The causes of all this are to be found in the general modification of food lifestyles; in a growing trend towards an increasing consumption of foods with low nutritional value and, on the contrary, rich in fat and sugar, the so-called junk foods or junk food, associated with the increase of consumption of sugary drinks and an increasingly sedentary and poorly prone to sports activity. Inadequate diet and sedentary behaviour should not be considered individually, but jointly responsible for the health burden. It is therefore of fundamental importance that there be a balance between measured consumption of high-fat foods and constant physical activity. Regardless of weight, regular physical activity, even moderate, positively affects the metabolism of fats and carbohydrates and can greatly reduce the risk of diabetes and most other major chronic diseases. According to data from the World Health Organisation's Regional Office for Europe, inadequate diet, lack of physical activity, resulting obesity and associated diseases are, as a whole, responsible for health complications and premature mortality as well as tobacco smoking. Overweight affects between 30% and 80% in adults in the European region. The increase in childhood obesity is perhaps even more alarming. Over 60 percent of children who are overweight before puberty will also be overweight in the early stages of adulthood. This reduces the average age of non-communicable diseases and significantly affects the burden of health services as it increases the number of accesses and benefits during the adult age period. The Ministry of Health has activated the OKkio health surveillance system with the aim of monitoring the evolution of childhood obesity and evaluating health promotion interventions. The analysis, relating to the year 2014, shows that 20.9 percent of Italian children are overweight, while 9.8 percent are obese, with a higher prevalence in the Southern and Central Italian regions. In particular, the observation of dietary habits associated with the analysis of aspects related to movement and sedentaryness shows a very uncomfortable picture. One of the aspects highlighted by the study is the perception that parents have of their children's lifestyles: little more than 38 percent of parents recognize the serious overweight and obesity of their children and only 40 percent believe that they do little physical activity. Numerous studies have observed an increase in prevalence of overweight and obesity among specific population groups identified by income level or study title. Obesity is most common among socially disadvantaged communities in most countries in the European region, with lower levels of income, education and access to care. In many countries of the region, the real price of food has reached its historic lows. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, Senator Romani. ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). I have to finish. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The time has run out for you to explain the motion. Get it done. ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). The real price of food has reached historic lows and the percentage for the purchase of food is falling. The food industry and distributors influence food consumption through the aesthetic aspect, the size of portions, the promotion of special offers. The World Health Organization has classified as likely, or convincing, the negative effect of aggressive marketing of energy-intensive foods on the nutritional status of children and, although it is necessary to pay the utmost attention to marketing for children, it cannot be underestimated the different ability of adults to make healthy food choices or to resist marketing calls. Ultimately, since measures have been taken in several countries to reduce the consumption of high-fat foods and sugary drinks through a system of taxation of so-called junk foods, I would like our Government to finally commit itself to coordinating healthy food, to foresee a national health plan for proper nutrition and, above all, to stimulate a proper lifestyle by increasing physical activity. [[Applause from Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u10	I would remind my colleagues that they have five minutes to explain the motions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u11	I call Senator Bianconi to explain motion No 601.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u12	Mr President, 22 million people in Italy are overweight, one in four; 6 million are obese, one in ten. These people cost the National Health Service, for direct and indirect costs, about EUR 23 billion. I would like to point out that our National Health Service has 113 billion, of which 64 percent are for hospitalisation costs. Obesity is not an aesthetic fact, there cannot be a DIY to counteract obesity. An obese person risks having 25 percent less life expectancy, with very serious chronic crippling diseases, diabetes, coronary diseases and consistent cancer rates. Man's life, says the president of the Higher Institute of Health, is inversely proportional to the width of his belt. That is absolutely true. It's a very worrying pandemic. This is a complex, chronic, crippling disease that needs a multidisciplinary approach. It is a disease with many factors: it is a cultural and social disease, but also with genetic aspects. I read recently in an article that the Samoan community, the fattest people on earth, has developed a genetic variant, thanks to which it does not develop diabetes. So while obese people today develop diabetes, this community, which is the fattest in the world, does not develop it. This involves very important genetic problems and implications. The size of the problem is so large and so important that it needs our full attention. This is not the first time that we talk about obesity and the contrast to obesity, in Italy and in the world. Yesterday was World Day against Obesity. The World Health Organisation has launched guidelines and our health plan to combat obesity has already provided for very precise actions. However, we need this disease to be recognised as chronic and crippling, with considerable social and economic costs. These days, MEPs are developing the definition of obesity as a chronic disease. We therefore ask the Government to call this disease chronic disease. Secondly, we ask that the welfare network be able to combine all the skills, precisely because it is a very complex disease, and that these be put on the network also in those specialised centres, called the Path for therapeutic assistance diagnosis (PDTA), in order to deal with the pathology at 360 degrees overall. Finally, we ask that in the national pact for prevention and the fight against obesity 2014-2018, the guard should not be lowered, Mr Undersecretary. On the contrary, we must implement the actions against this disease, in the light of the data, which I indicated in the motion at my first signature, and I thank the colleagues who signed it in this regard. These are really alarming data, which have a relapse today, tomorrow and in the future. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u13	I call Senator Gaetti to explain motion 640.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u14	Mr President, as the time is very short, I will not explain my Group's motion, but I would prefer to leave a few thoughts to the House. First of all, I have read the other motions, which recall, in some ways, some commercials, in which it is said that cellulite and menopause are a disease. These are particularly important economic phenomena, on which I call for a very thorough reflection. Obesity is a medical condition, in my opinion, and therefore it is not a disease, although to determine it can be multifactorial causes. However, behavioral disorders play a very important role. I would therefore like to leave four points of reflection, the first of which concerns individual responsibility, the famous lifestyles. However, citizens today are not in a position to make wise choices, because even the most careful may have difficulty buying a product, since very often labelling is not on time. Therefore, the consumer might believe that he buys a healthy product, which is not healthy. The lack of labelling refers to the second point I would like to highlight, which is political responsibility, which is why production should be better regulated, for example by trying to reduce the amount of salt and sugar in products and all the other factors that are added. In addition, the political component could work a lot, as my colleague Maurizio Romani said, on the tax aspects, some of which were highlighted in the motion. Finally, another important point is didactics. I am a doctor, unfortunately I have already advanced over the years, but in my course of studies I did not have an hour of nutrition education, while they tell me that now the graduation courses provide from six to eight hours. Having no training on matters that are so important to us that we will then have to provide information to the citizens I think is very serious. Then there is the pharmacological problem mentioned by Mr Bianconi. Today there are drugs that are very promoted for economic reasons for which there is a strong marketing activity, whose function is very poor. The last one, approved a few months ago, the liraglutide, costs almost 4,000 euros a year for each patient and in Italy the patients could be a million, so the treatment would cost 4 billion euros. Trials claim that these drugs have reduced weight by 10 percent to 33 percent of the population; I read a study according to which each kilo lost cost 782 euros. Perhaps it would be more appropriate to give 100 euros continuously to those who lose a kilo, because it would be much more rewarding for everyone. This goes back to the gene analysis we talked about earlier: each of us will discover that we have a gene and therefore we will have to do preventive therapy. In fact, we need to pay attention to the national prevention plan 2014-2018, as we want to move the use of these drugs from the treatment of obesity disease, to early diagnosis and, therefore, prevention. This will, of course, lead to unsustainable spending on the National Health Service, instead of behavioral choices that should be made. Since there is a change in the doctor's employment contract, I think it is very important that basic doctors should be encouraged to follow patients; they should start paying for quality objectives: that is, whether a basic doctor who has 1,500 patients and 100 obese patients, follows them, provides them with the diet, controls them and stimulates them. At this point, when you reduce the number of obese, you have a better quality of life for everyone and a savings for the National Health Service. I therefore believe that these innovations can combine citizens' health with the sustainability of our National Health Service. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u15	I call Senator Barani to explain motion 642.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u16	Mr President, of course, in motion 642, we point out that obesity is a pathological problem for a high percentage of the Italian population, which exceeds 10%. We are talking about a new culture of food science, toxic fat, obesity as a chronic disease that leads to a reduction in years of life and an exponential increase in health spending. It is thought that by 2030 in Italy obese should be twice as much as there are currently, which would lead to triple spending on the National Health Service, which would mean unsustainable. According to statistics, Italy is first in Europe for the obesity of children under sixteen years of age. It is a sad record that leads us to reflect on the sustainable development goals to be achieved after 2030. Its level of diffusion must be considered, because it is called toxic fat and chronic disease leading to an increase in type 2 diabetes, dyslipidaemias, cardiovascular diseases and degenerative diseases of the central nervous system. It's also connected to Alzheimer's, senile dementia. In obese there is a greater incidence of this type of disease that is raging in patients of rest facilities in Italy, at great expense both family and the national health system. Therefore, the theme becomes even more important, in the light above all of the growing and exponential trend that obesity makes to record. The implications determined by this pathology at first are of an exquisitely medical nature. Other colleagues have mentioned the need for the basic doctor to engage in diagnosis and treatment. Diagnosis is visual, but the cure is difficult. On the matter of treatment, let me make a parenthesis, Mr President, because there is the problem of Aida, which also reminded me of my previous colleague. There is the problem of drugs that do nothing, they are fresh water and cost 4,000 euros for patient therapy, but that the Aifa put in circulation making believe that they might be able to lose some hectos. This branch of Parliament must decide to set up a Commission of Inquiry to understand what interests reign within the Italian Drug Agency and our Ministry of Health, because the Aifa scandal on the drugs that cause weight loss is equal, neither more nor less, to that of the medicines for the treatment of hepatitis C, which cost 40,000 euros for therapy in Italy and 800 euros in Egypt. There is also a psychological problem, a problem to be addressed in schools. Our motion therefore ranges to 360 degrees on all aspects pertaining to school, psychological and work education. That is why we believe it is necessary for Parliament to legislate and not only act on a motion. The Ministry of Health must be proactive towards Parliament, and vice versa, in order to legislate on this matter, otherwise we will not be able to afford it in the future. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri to explain motion 643. Before giving you the floor, Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, I would like to remind you all of the respect for the times that will allow us, on a day with a calendar of intense work, to examine and vote on the motions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will also be contained because the previous speaker has given an exhaustive explanation of the conditions and reasons which have suggested that these motions should be included in the timetable: the epidemiological aspects, the motivations, the dissemination and the costs. I would like to draw the House's attention to one aspect which does not concern so much the fact that around four million people die every year in the world from the problem of obesity and not even the fact that in our country about twenty million people are overweight; it concerns another circumstance. 21 percent of children between eight and nine years of age are overweight and in the same age group 10 percent of children are obese. And not only that, because from epidemiological data it is also found that one in four children is hypertensive. These are alarming and disturbing data, which must, of course, be evaluated from an epidemiological point of view, also by geographical area. And so it turns out that the incidence of obesity and overweight rises in percentage terms in the areas of the Mezzogiorno of Italy. The implications are more devastating than the pathology itself. The obese patient undergoes diabetic disease, ischaemic heart disease, arterial disease and more easily contract neoplastic forms. Obesity, but also overweight, affects the quality of life and also the amount of life. Being obese clinically amounts to an ageing state and the WHO reminds us that the obesity condition reduces life expectancy from 8 to 15 percent. The costs are a worrying aspect and are estimated overall in about 20 billion euros in our country. Of course there are not only health costs, but there are also those for lost productivity, for transport, for compromised human capital. What do we ask with our motion by the CoR Group? We ask to implement those interventions that in our country have been well defined within the framework of health promotion programs. I am talking about the national and regional prevention plans, I am talking about the project Gaining health or the same National Health Plan on diabetic disease, which makes explicit reference to the condition of obesity. The second point is the need to continuously and appropriately activate forms of surveillance and monitoring, which are used to update epidemiological data, also in order to better and more accurate measurement of the effects of the initiatives undertaken. For this reason, a dedicated working group of high scientific value could be set up. There is also a need for information and education initiatives. The problem of obesity is certainly of a clinical nature, which has primary health implications, but which has its roots primarily in cultural and social motivations. There is also the possibility of evaluating the off-label use of liraglutide, on whose therapeutic effectiveness the scientific community has expressed itself on time, and the need to increase the number of programs aimed at identifying subjects in obesity or overweight, also promoting healthier lifestyles that allow to carry out an activity that is not only curative, but also prevention. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u18	I declare the debate open. Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u19	Mr President, given the timing of the debate, I will give the text of my speech, so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting, and I will give some very small reflections. I think it is good that today the issue of obesity has had the opportunity to be discussed in this House, in order to make known the scope of the issue and to propose action to combat it. It is clear that these issues are a natural public health problem and that the impact on spending on the National Health Service must be highlighted. My speech focuses mainly on two aspects: prevention and the reduction of socio-economic inequalities, because in them it increases the level of obesity and overweight. I should like to start by reminding you - as the previous speaker has just said - that an obese child will be an obese adult, with the well-founded risk of metabolic diseases that have been mentioned several times in this House. Therefore, the central issue is prevention, which plays an important role: early interventions must be promoted from the time of pre-conception. When we come to intervene on the obese or overweight child, we have already lost too many opportunities and too much time. It is therefore necessary to inform parents, to accompany them in choosing a suitable diet and to encourage more and more breast-feeding. We must consider that we live in an environment that is really obese and this phenomenon is linked to several factors mentioned here too. I only remember them for titles: bad eating habits and the spread of sedentary behaviors. We therefore need to act synergistically on a number of fronts and in a cross-sectoral way. First of all, we must prevent our children from having access to so-called junk food, but instead have the availability of healthy food and drink. All this is at odds with and in contrast with the media bombing that drives us to choose just junk food. We still think about our cities and urban spaces: there are practically no pedestrian spaces thanks to which children and children could go more easily to school on foot, avoiding being accompanied every day by parents. Or, again, to the playful activities, which keep our children glued in front of the television or video games: this also interferes and determines the overweight and obesity. It is understood, therefore, that the problem is multifactorial and must be addressed in a synergistic and cross-sectoral manner. [[Call the president back.]] Let me just add one element that has not yet been mentioned: the potential danger that the many endocrine disruptors - which we are dealing with in the Health Commission these days - are very widespread and can have repercussions on the endocrine system, helping to determine the obesity that we are trying to fight in every way.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u20	The Presidency authorizes you to deliver the text of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u21	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u22	Mr President, time is short, a race must be made and physical activity must be started immediately in order to give momentum and avoid obesity. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as mentioned in the motions, families with less culture and less wealth tend to eat more foods rich in fat and carbohydrates, leaving out the care of the body more easily, starting with the mouth. Because of foods with a high sugar content, the mouth pH and teeth are lowered, if they are not well cleansed and brushed after each meal, they are caried. Also due to lack of culture and money, the mouth is neglected, resulting in loss of teeth, which turn out to be useful for smiling, talking and, of course, eating. Failure to shred food, due to lack of teeth, causes people to be more likely to ingest foods that are easier to swallow, even without having to chew them, and these lead to categories of hypercaloric and hyperlipidic foods, which are therefore harmful to the body; combined with the lack of shredding, there is a greater absorption of food due to a bad and slow digestion. The same favorable factors - that is, little culture and little economic availability - affect the lack of practice of sport, also due to the lack of public sports activities offered free of charge (not all resort to private gymnasiums). Sporters have an average life of 30 percent longer than sedentary people. Sport increases the action of methmorphine, which serves to keep low blood sugar, increases good cholesterol (HDL), which acts as a sweeper and keeps the arteries clean by preventing atheromatosis and vascular atherosclerosis; it is also good for muscles and bones, helping us to maintain more integrity and elastic our skeleton and our joints. I believe that in order to encourage proper nutrition and a correct lifestyle, in order to make our national health system sustainable and, at the same time, to preserve the healthy lives of people, it is necessary to facilitate the use of care and services, such as dental care and the use of gymnasiums. The way to do this would be to make them economically accessible through a public supply covering demand. It can be done, but the times are certainly too long and expensive. Starting from what we already have, we can encourage treatment and physical activity through the deductions of expenses. In the law of stability the choice could be made to favour dental care, giving the possibility to deduct 53 percent of the expenditure incurred and for those who do sports in public or private gyms or associations to download 50% of the expenses. I remember that currently those who do sports activities to their children can download up to 250 euros a year, being returned 19 percent of that share (about 60 euros: I would say very little). It is therefore necessary to favour the possibility of deducting the costs for sports activity, since the person who has the least risk and need to resort to the National Health System for a number of diseases mentioned here, such as diabetes, cardiovascular diseases and all those diseases that are being encountered while maintaining a sedentary lifestyle and eating too much. Body fat accumulates when the energy content of beverages and foods exceeds the energy required by metabolism and therefore the energetic intake and its expenditure contribute to the increase of body weight. It is therefore of fundamental importance that there be a balance between measured consumption of high-fat foods and constant physical activity. Regardless of weight, regular physical activity, even moderate, positively affects the metabolism of fats and carbohydrates and can greatly reduce the risk of diabetes and most other major chronic diseases, resulting in better quality of life and lower health costs. It is true that we cannot eat a life as a sick person, as we say in Florence, to die healthy, but it is also true that it is important to find a right balance, respecting ourselves, society and the environment, avoiding unnecessary waste because in the world we perhaps have too much food while there are other countries where it is not so. That is also why we need to be moderate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u23	Senator Aiello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u24	Mr President, it is clear that we are required to work for flashes in a particularly short time and that we may not be able to make an organic speech, but all the motions that have been presented have proved to be timely in dealing with such an important and so scathing subject. We have already seen that the causes that induce obesity are many. I will quote them in passing to enable us, at the end of our reasoning, to make some remarks and requests for parliamentary, ministerial and governmental intervention which we consider important. Precisely because of what has already been emphasized - the incorrect nutrition, the poor physical activity, the excessive mechanization, the great availability of food, the progressive increase of rations, the diffusion of videogames and social networks, the genetic susceptibility, the disorders of the psychological sphere and the advertising investments of the food industry - we believe that obesity must be considered a global epidemic, therefore we remain firmly convinced that it represents one of the main problems of public health that entails, consecutively, enormous costs. Suffice it to say that already in the United States the estimate is about 99 billion dollars in health care spending and that only 33 billion dollars are spent by patients on products and services aimed at reducing body weight. In Italy, it has already been specified in part, the estimate is 9 billion direct expenditure per year and 23 billion indirect expenditure. The estimated incidence of these diseases, in Italy, is about 13 percent, but the rate of incidence is growing rapidly and therefore a significant increase of obese in the adult population is expected in a few years. It is a social disease because it determines the isolation of those affected by it. Moreover, it is associated with important health consequences because obese people are exposed to an increase in the neoplastic risk which, I would like to point out, for women mainly concerns breast and endometrium cancer while, as far as men are concerned, the rectum. But there are also other pathologies: from hypertension, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, gallstones and hepatopathies. In conclusion, I stress the fact that a great deal of attention should be paid prodromically to childhood obesity. Think that about 10 percentage points have been estimated to increase the availability of atypical products, let's say, in schools that produce an increase in body mass index in children and adolescents. Finally, there is an Italian multiscope survey, carried out a short time ago, which showed that 25 percent of children and adolescents who have at least one obese or overweight parent risk in turn overweight, while the percentage rises to about 34 percent when they are obese or overweight both parents. Obesity is therefore a social and economic problem which justifies Parliament's intervention. At the Ministry of Health - undersecretary De Filippo well knows, because he followed the procedure - a protocol is being studied that concerns the science of food. I would like to stress the goodness of this intervention, which must be given to the State-Regions Conference, precisely in order to guarantee priority to such an important subject. Another point that I would like to stress, Mr President, is that over time, the departmental prevention organisation that characterised the presence of school medicine and health education in the old USLs has been abandoned. Unfortunately, abandoning this organizational project has shown an abnormal increase in overweight and obese children. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator Aiello. AELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). So if we had a chance to get back to that kind of organizational model, maybe we'd ease the discomfort. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u25	Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u26	Mr President, in two minutes I can only read what the World Health Organization recommends to us in the words of its Director-General, Margareth Chan. As we are talking mainly about lifestyles, diet and physical activity, in 2013 Margareth Chan said: Today, to convince people to lead healthy lifestyles and to adopt healthy behaviors, we clash with forces that are not friends. (...) Health (...) must deal with the food industry (Big Food), carbonated drinks (Big Soda) and alcoholic beverages (Big Alcohol). (...) Few governments give priority to health over big business. (...) This is not the failure of individual will. It is the failure of the political will to prevail over the big business. I believe that this aspect has not yet been taken into account. Margareth Chan reminds us that cross-sectoral policies, which are very difficult to tackle, can help us tackle this issue. In this regard, I would like to recommend more attention. I also remember that a systematic review of the literature on pharmacological treatment has just come out. I wouldn't want Big Pharma to be there too, which contrasts the possibility of a fight against obesity, because drugs are one of the many tools we have available: they cost a lot, they don't know if they maintain the results in the long run and, above all, they induce less psychological attention to the individual behaviors that are needed instead. That is why I believe that we need to work cross-sectorally. [[Applause from the PD and Misto-Idv groups and Senator Gaetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u27	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u28	Mr President, I try to be very respectful of the times that have been assigned to me. All the motions pose very common problems, ranging from prevention to diagnostic-therapeutic pathways, to a more correct program on the front of the lifestyles, but also on the front of the nutritional qualities, as has emerged in the interventions that we have heard. Most of these issues are shared by the Ministry's action and, for this reason, our views will be broadly in line with what I am about to say. In previous years there have been very important programs that have also been mentioned, such as Earning health and the surveillance program OKkio, from the very alarming data regarding especially children in particular of some Italian regions where the percentage of obese is very high, with all the consequences also of metabolic syndromes that such physical conditions can determine. I would also point out that the National Prevention Plan 2014-2016, in the much more stringent relationships that have been built with the Regions, provides for the obligation to compile regional prevention plans with a monitoring committee on the objectives that must be determined. I believe that this approach will be much more effective than in the past. I am now going to express my views on the motions before us, in the context of some very quick comments. With regard to motion 601, at the first signature of Senator Bianconi, the Government's opinion is favourable with a reformulation of the first commitment: we ask that after the word "social" the diction be added to the cases where obesity is related to other severe diseases, and that the remaining part of the commitment be expunged. With this rewording, the Government's opinion is favourable. As regards motion 515 at the first signature of Senator Romani Maurizio, the Government's opinion is in favour, provided that in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of the operative part the formula is added to assess the possibility of de-icing. I give a favourable opinion on points 4 and 5 of motion 640, first signed by Senator Gaetti. With reference to points (1) and (6) of the device, here again we ask that the formula be added: Points 2) and 3) are not shared by the Government because, as will surely be known to Senator Gaetti, they provide mechanisms of consultation and convention with pediatricians and anything else that are subject to a formula of discussion and democratic debate from below that we can certainly accompany, but that we cannot take in absolute and exclusive responsibility as Government. I give a favourable opinion on motion 642, first signed by Senator Barani, provided that in points 2, 3, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12) and 14) of the device, the formula "to assess the possibility of "to be" is added. I give a favourable opinion on motion 643, at the first signature of Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, provided that points 3), 4 and 6 of the device are preceded by the formula "to assess the possibility of "." As always, we have given those who attend the proceedings of this House a rewording form which I hope will be clear to the presenters of the motions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u29	I remember who wanted to sign the motions, can communicate it to the offices.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u30	We greet the teachers and students of the San Giuseppe del Caburlotto Institute in Rome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u31	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u34	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, I believe that the debate has been comprehensive, even in the short term. The illustrations have also touched on very synthetic, but effective, the main critical issues; the Government's replies are also fairly convincing. I believe that the spotlight should be kept on this matter. I believe that the progress of science cannot be subjected to the shadow cone of those who extend suspicions also on our drug agency, which makes us look good in the world. I hope that we will continue with the search for new therapeutic garrisons, without forgetting that the battle on this side is fought on the cultural front through education, awareness and the introduction of effective promotional campaigns on the correct lifestyles.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u37	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, we thank the Undersecretary and accept the proposed rewordings as regards our motion. I would also like to say that we will vote in favour of all the motions, both the reworded motions and those whose points have not been accepted by the Undersecretary. I am referring to Senator Gaetti's first-signed motion: although multidisciplinary, we believe it is in the interest of the State and the health of citizens that the points raised by Senator Gaetti's motion, which we find appropriate to public health and national interest, should also be remedied. Finally, I call on the Secretary-General to pay more attention to Aifa, and I also call on this branch of Parliament to set up a Commission of Inquiry as soon as possible to see the scumbags in Aifa.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u40	AELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the Undersecretary (then the Government) for his response to the various questions raised. We would particularly like to point out the issue of prevention. We consider the Government's commitment to the Prevention Plan very important and we urge the Undersecretary to work also for the future Prevention Plan 2016-2018, because precisely on the issue of obesity, especially childish, we would like to be given much, but much more attention. It has already been noted that, especially in the South, the fork of obese children varies between 17 and 25 percent, which says a lot about how the Mediterranean diet is abandoned, which for so long has characterized certain territories. We expect strong action by the institutions on this issue. As I renew my thanks to the Government for its action, I declare my Group's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u43	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary, but I would need to have almost the assurance that this Government will really think a lot more about prevention rather than therapy. The second point of the motion of which I am the first signatory is to commit the Government to take legislative initiatives to introduce a specific tax on foods with high fat and low nutritional value and on drinks rich in sugar and carbon dioxide. I know that this is a strong commitment, but necessary to solve the problem of obesity. The third point of the motion is to commit the government to funding projects within the school, allowing children to do physical education, gymnastics and also team sports activities (we know the importance of teamwork from an educational point of view). Such projects can be financed through taxation involving most of the products covered by so-called junk food. On October 31, 2013, the British Medical Journal said that an increase in the price of at least 20 percent of high-fat foods and sugary drinks would lead to a decrease of 180,000 units of obese British citizens and an income for the UK Health Service's cashiers of 320 million euros. I do not want to upset the economy of some companies, but it would be useful to think of a minimum taxation from which to obtain a quantity of money to invest in prevention, rather than medicines based on the finding of the last gene. Keep in mind that in places of detention (I remember especially the old detention places) obese - gene or not gene - there were none. Therefore, it is essential to understand if our Government moves, with courage, in the direction of promoting more gymnastics and movement, using to this end a share of the money coming from taxation on those who produce food that we know to be harmful to health. Keep in mind that even after saying such a thing, three out of ten companies reformulated their products by completely removing critical ingredients, 7% of companies reduced sugar, salt and caffeine levels and there was a 27 percent decrease in the sale of the products subject to taxation that thus cost more (people who have little chance of spending buy junk food more easily). So, there was a 35% decrease in their consumption. I thank the Undersecretary, however, and I hope that in the right place he will be able to push the Government towards this vision of prevention and to make it clear that the problem is not solved bit by bit, but in a global way.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u46	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, I too would like to thank the Government for its careful assessment of the motions. As far as I am concerned, I will ask for the split vote so that I can vote, if I understood correctly, on points 1) which have been reworded, 4) and 5), which have been accepted, while on points 2, 3) and 6), the opinion is against. DE FILIPPO, State Secretary for Health. The opinion was also positive on point 6. GAETTI (M5S). Then I will separate only points 2) and 3). I knew these were particular, but I am pleased to have heard that the Government, in the interlotation it will have for the new contractistics, will consider them because I believe that the concept of health is important precisely because multifactorial and for this it must be inserted. I am voting in favour of all the other motions, although I have not quite understood the rewording of motion No 601 and I look forward to reading the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u49	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that obesity and all the diseases related to obesity have become a serious problem on which it is necessary to reflect and act because, as pointed out in Mr Bianconi's motion for a resolution signed by me, it has an increasing social and economic cost and is now a problem of prevention and public health. I do not want to repeat the impressive figures already presented, but the information and contrast campaigns that have gradually taken place in different nations make it clear how much attention needs to be paid to what we might call a "wellness society syndrome". Although it is true that not only in the "rich" countries the percentage of obesity is rising, certainly a better possibility of access to food and the low propensity to physical mobility exponentially increase the risk of excess body fat. Let us not forget that obesity is a risk factor for all the diseases related to it: in particular, I am referring to diabetes and cardiovascular diseases. In Europe since the 1980s the number of obese children has tripled, especially in Italy, which boasts the sad record of the second place in the world. In men, abdominal adiposity favors the causes of the heart attack. Women with diabetes are 40 percent overweight and 27 percent obese. Increased risk factors in pregnancy, with problems such as eclampsia, gestosis, foetal damage, and increased anesthetic risk in the operating room and for post-surgical. In children the risk of diabetes and also of autoimmune diseases such as celiac disease and thyroiditis is increased. Adiposity increases insulin sensitivity and secretion in children even in pre-adolescent age. A study in Canada of 830 children showed that the increase in body fat at eight and ten years predicts insulin sensitivity over the next two years. The increase in time spent in front of the screen worsens insulin dynamics. So, of course, it is time to act. Our motions urge the government to do so. We do not agree with the taxation of so-called junk food and sugary drinks, also because we have the example of the United Kingdom, where there are red stamps on Italian products, as can be the olive oil. It would therefore penalise one sector and favour another, and this would have no effect on health at all. The important thing would be information and control. I believe that the Ministry of Health should take serious action with the MIUR so that there is control over school canteens. It is unacceptable to see how in some kindergartens a year and a half or two children are given pasta with eggplants, pesto or pre-packaged snacks. On this it is absolutely necessary to supervise, or to educate and leave distributors of snacks and drinks within everyone's reach. You have listened to the economic cost figures for our country; it is certainly a very serious situation. The extra step must be to launch an absolutely national plan for obesity with multidisciplinary action. However, I do not think that is enough. You should try to indicate in the combination of diet and motor activity the best response to obesity. So, there must be guidelines, because with the various treatments it has been seen that only 20 percent of obese patients can recover. A lot of attention should also be paid to medicines. My group will therefore vote in favour of the motion I have signed and the motion tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u50	Senator Rizzotti, if you wish, you can forward the final part of your speech to the Presidency so that it can be appended to the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u53	Mr Maturani (PD). Mr President, the debate that took place this morning was rich, so I will not resume the analysis of the percentages of obesity that have been represented in a timely manner. In my explanation of vote I would like to briefly highlight some aspects that have been discussed in the debate, but on which I think it is very important to return. We all agree that the fight against obesity has become a priority; it sees the commitment of all governments and not just of European governments. Let us think, for example, of the commitment made in this sense by Michelle Obama; an important point of reference in the need to undertake sustained paths that concern the modification of lifestyles and a right diet. I also say that in our country the activity of the Government in this sense demonstrates a serious commitment that is touching the fundamental elements in the fight against obesity; I am talking about the issue of prevention. All my colleagues stressed in this morning's debate the importance of the prevention of obesity, a risky condition of life and the bearer of other serious diseases that can have a dramatic impact on people's health. There is one aspect that I would like to stress, agreeing that prevention is the fundamental element and that we must not risk addressing the issue of obesity from the point of view of medicalization because then this, as Senator Dirindin pointed out, risks also favoring and facilitating in the collective imagination the idea that we can treat ourselves and can determine the use of medicines often harmful. I would add, however, that we must consider something that I have not heard much of in our debate, namely how important it is, especially in the adolescent phase of the lives of our boys and girls, the right food education. This helps to combat the phenomenon, which is increasingly widespread in our country, which is that of the rejection of one's body, with the attribution to the physical image, to the physical presentation of the body of adolescents, a meaning that does not help the self-esteem. This has led - as the chronicles often point out - to dramatic episodes. So we have to work to implement prevention. Thank you, Senator Maturani. Mr Maturani (PD). Mr President, let me finish, please. This also means working for the right diet in schools and investing so that all, especially families in socially and economically more precarious and difficult situations, are helped to have their children practice sports. It is necessary to be able to resume the commitment to make possible an accompaniment within schools, through services that provide psychosocial assistance, especially for adolescents. I therefore vote in favour of the Democratic Party, on the basis of the indications given by the representative of the Government. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u54	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 515 (text 2), on which the representative of the Government has proposed rewordings, which have been accepted by the presenters. CUOMO (PD). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 515 (text 2), tabled by Senator Romani Maurizio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 601, on which the representative of the Government has proposed rewordings, which have been accepted by the presenters. CUOMO (PD). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 601 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 640, on which the representative of the Government has proposed a rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u57	GAETTI (M5S). I call for the vote on the motion to be taken separately. I would ask that the premises and points 1), as reworded, 4, 5 and 6 be voted on first, as reworded, of the operative part, on which the representative of the Government gave a favourable opinion, and then points 2 and 3). We also call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u58	Senator Gaetti, if I understand correctly, is asking for the vote on the motion by separate parties, putting to the vote the premises and points 1), 4, 5 and 6 of the device, on which the Government expressed a favourable opinion. Therefore you do not accept the Government representative's proposal to expunge points 2 and 3 from the device. As no comments are made, we shall proceed to the separate vote on motion 640 (text 2). [[Senator Martelli's comments.]] I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of points 1), 4, 5 and 6 of motion 640 (text 2), tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of points 2) and 3) of motion 640 (text 2), tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 642 (text 2), on which proposals have been made for reformulations which have been accepted by Senator Barani. CUOMO (PD). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 642 (text 2), tabled by Senator Barani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 643, on which a rewording was proposed, which was accepted by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri. CUOMO (PD). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 643 (text 2), tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I suspend the sitting until 11 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10.49 a.m. and resumed at 11.02 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u59	The next item is: The Government's communication with a view to the European Council of 20 and 21 October 2016 and subsequent discussion of the matter is in progress. I call the State Secretary to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, Mr Gozi.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u60	Mr President, I should like to inform the Senators that I have just submitted the shorthand speech that the President of the Council has given to the House of Deputies. However, I believe that it might be useful to add some specific information related to the European Council meeting which the President of the Council spoke about in broad outline, without going into the details of the work. I will also mention a number of key points in the speech by the President of the Council and therefore by the Government. The first is certainly our commitment to getting the European Union out of the current hectic immobilism, that is, from a status quo that does not allow us to raise the pace and raise the political ambitions of the European Union, as the Italian Government intends to do. That is the real reason for our negative assessment of the Bratislava Summit, in which nothing significant has happened, as the President-in-Office of the Council said first, immediately after that informal summit. A week later, with practically the same words, the President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Junker confirmed this in the European institutional framework. So with regard to the process that was to start in Bratislava, which will wind through the two European Councils (the first is what we are talking about today, while the second is scheduled for December) and which will find an important moment, at least in the ambitions and intentions of the Italian Government, in Rome in 2017 (when, on 25 March of next year we will celebrate the sixty years of the Treaty of Rome), it becomes even more important to raise the pace and level of political ambitions. Another point, which is very important to us, which you will find in the speech of the President-in-Office of the Council, is that while Brexit is an issue of great political importance, we cannot simply stand still while waiting for the notification, under Article 50 of the Treaty, of the British Government's intention to leave the European Union, which Prime Minister Theresa May announced in March 2017. We cannot stand still waiting for article 50, but we must work at 27 to really make Rome 2017 a success, to keep high the ambitions we have for Rome 2017, which we consider a fundamental moment. We consider this to be fundamental, especially when we think of young Europeans and also of young British people, because, with regard to Brexit, the young people who had gone to vote had voted massively in favour of the Remain, that is, the United Kingdom's decision to remain in the European Union. The other very important aspect is the will of the Government to work together to prepare Rome 2017. Working together means working with all political groups and it is the invitation I address to the Senate on behalf of the Government, as the President of the Council has done to the House. We in Europe do not represent the majority, but we proudly represent the Italian Republic and believe that, when we are preparing important moments in Europe such as the relaunch of the process of European political integration during the sixty years of the Treaty of Rome, it is absolutely desirable and appropriate - and these are the Government's wishes - to work together with the political groups of majority and opposition to the Italian Parliament and with the political groups of different types and colors in the European Parliament. We have the desire, in the preparation process in Rome 2017, to launch a strong dialogue and to involve those Members of the European Parliament who have been and are rapporteurs for important parliamentary reports concerning the future of the European Union and how to relaunch the process of political integration. I refer to the report by Mr Bresso and Mr Brok on how to strengthen political integration by making full use of existing treaties, the Berès and Böge reports on how to strengthen economic, social and democratic governance, especially in the euro area, and the Verhofstadt report on the future of the European Union. We therefore want to establish a very strong relationship of cooperation with the European Parliament in view of the appointment in Rome 2017. Another process is also under way, certainly linked to the future of the European Union: it is the process of revising the multi-annual financial framework, that is, in more understandable terms, the process of revising the European budget. We are currently reviewing the financial framework from now to 2019, but the process will begin at the beginning of next year to review the European Union's budget more broadly in the period from 2019 onwards. We believe that this is a very important point and that the budgetary review must be used to ensure that that principle of solidarity, which is not only a great value of the European Union, but is legally binding and is mentioned in the Treaties at least twenty times, is fully respected in all EU policies, even when it comes to immigration and fundamental rights. Our intention is to place much stronger conditionality on the principle of solidarity vis-à-vis those countries which today call for solidarity when it comes to regional development policies and to receive substantial financial resources from the EU budget for their regional development, but which suddenly forget the political and legal value of solidarity when it comes to respecting fundamental rights and, in particular, the commitments made at European level in the field of immigration and asylum. We believe - and it has also been said in the most formal European fora - that the principle of flexible solidarity is a contradiction in terms. We know, as I said, the principle of solidarity; we know - and this Parliament knows too - the principle of flexibility, both with regard to the Stability and Growth Pact and with regard to the functioning of the European budget, but the principle of flexible solidarity, which has been proposed by some countries at European level, does not belong to the legal commitments and the European treaties, nor to European policies that we can share. The issue of solidarity, therefore, is of course fundamental and we intend to assert it in the Italian position that we are developing and that we will work together, including with the contribution of the Italian Parliament, and that we would like to assert when we start the revision of the European Union's budget. These, Mr President, are the key points of the President of the Council's speech, which he wished to mention in terms of international policy and the high moment of foreign policy, his visit to Washington, which will take place from Monday to Wednesday and, quoting Obama's words, recalled that in the evaluation of the President of the United States, the Italian-US relationship today reaches the highest level of its history. I believe that we must all be proud of this, like Italy, given the importance that, I am sure, all the political groups attach to the political relationship and to the strong alliance that has linked us for seventy years with the United States. Mr President, before we finish, I would like to add a few aspects that relate more directly to the draft conclusions of the European Council and therefore to the work we are doing and that we should continue, because there will be other meetings at the level of Ministers. I myself will be next Tuesday in Luxembourg, at the General Affairs Council in which we will discuss the preparation of the European Council and therefore the draft conclusions. So I am talking to you about the ongoing negotiating work and therefore, for us, this debate is even more timely, because it allows us to integrate your indications not at the time when the conclusions are already defined but precisely at the time when we are negotiating them. 11:13 a.m. (Gozi, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers). This European Council will focus on a number of major issues and the first will certainly be immigration. It seems that, compared to Bratislava, at least in the intentions there is a little more courage, at least Africa is given greater importance. The importance of developing a new partnership in immigration between Europe and Africa is explicitly mentioned. Within this partnership, which must be broad and based on new development policies through public and private investments in exchange for a greater commitment by the countries of origin and transit on immigration, there is obviously also the issue of return, which we want to link to an important result for Italy, namely the start of activity, formally entered into force on 6 October (so a few days ago) of the European Border and Coast Guard. It is an initiative that you will remember that we had taken during the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. We had then, I must say in general scepticism at European level, indicated the need to create a much stronger form of integration between border positions in order to begin to manage external borders more effectively; Today this is a reality and we want it to become immediately operational and functional at all external borders, starting from the Mediterranean. The European Council will also discuss the external investment plan, what has been called the Juncker Plan for Africa, namely those funds and the additional guarantee system that must be the financial instrument of our migration compact strategy, namely a new partnership for migration and development between Europe and Africa. Of course, within immigration, we will assert our dissatisfaction, repeatedly expressed by the Government, with the lack of respect for the decisions on the redistribution of asylum seekers (in fact, what is happening in Europe is still very insufficient), as we will insist that we continue, even more intensively, in the process of revising the famous Dublin Regulation, which you know how important it is, given that the revision of this Regulation - I must not remind you - is one of the pillars of our strategy but also of what should be the new European strategy on immigration and asylum. The other aspect is trade. The agreement with Canada will be assessed - and we hope that a final decision will also be reached. As you know - and it has also been debated in this House and requested by various groups - the national parliaments will have a fundamental and central role to play in this. On the other hand, on the occasion of another debate held here in the Senate on European law, among the various requests for commitment that had been addressed to the Government, there was precisely that of ensuring a centrality of the national parliaments on this. We will also discuss the introduction of new trade defence instruments for European companies - and therefore Italian companies - at global level. We believe that strengthening trade defence instruments is not neo-protectionism, but means providing us with instruments to ensure that relations and exchanges take place on a position of real equality, whereas we feel that this is not always the case today. We will also remember the importance of the recent Paris climate agreement: it is a fundamental historical step that the European Union, with its global partners in the world, is taking. This will not prevent us from continuing to follow and providing strategic guidance on individual legislative proposals, which are of great importance for Italy. I am thinking, for example, of the Effort sharing dossier. The issue of growth and the single market will be one of the key issues on which a further assessment will have to be made at European level. A push must be made to ensure that, by the end of 2018, the Single Market objectives are all met. Similarly, it is important that, by the end of the year, the formal decision is taken to double the strategic investment plan, the so-called Juncker Plan, while respecting the commitment which the President of the European Commission has made to Parliament and which we strongly support. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bianconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u61	I note that any motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u64	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to point out that the Budget Committee was allowed to convene until 11 a.m. today. In the meantime, however, we have voted in this House. If I am not mistaken, we senators are still entitled to vote, as provided for in the Constitution. We are allowed to be summoned to the Commission, always because we must hurry and approve quickly and we agree not to participate in the debate, but at least in the vote, Mr President, I think it is our right to participate! It was a decision of an absurd gravity that I think is inconceivable. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u65	Senator Comaroli, as you know - and the President of your Group can confirm this - this decision was taken at the Conference of the Leaders and was confirmed in this House. Nobody has objected to reading the Presidency speech, which was very clear about the authorisation given to the Budget Commission. That is the situation and it is not the subject of debate: there is a decision already taken by the Conference of Leaders, which was communicated to the House and on which we voted. No one has objected to this vote and no problem has been raised. I understand that perhaps the work of the Budget Commission could be stopped briefly, but it was up to the Presidency of the Commission to allow the senators, at the time when a vote was taking place in this House, to participate. But this is a question of opportunity, and not of deprivation of rights. I'd like to be clear on that. BEEPS (PD). However, the problem cannot be dealt with on the Presidency of the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u67	Senator Centinario, isn't it? The subject is not discussed, because it is in the terms in which I have explained it. I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u68	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, the situation is as you said, but at the Conference of Leaders it was said during the debate, and we said so on more than one occasion. I challenge any Parent Company to authorise its Senators to be outside the Chamber during voting operations. It never happened. We've always made another argument. During the general discussion or during the debate on the measures, I agreed - and I still do - that the senators should attend the meetings of the Commissions; we agreed and I also agreed. With regard to the vote - as you rightly said, Mr President - perhaps the Presidents of the Commission, at this point, should be a little more careful and agree with the Presidency on the timetables for the senators to come to the House to vote. It was only ten minutes, no more. We will not make it a national case: this is something that we hope will end here, but we ask the Presidents of the Commission for an institutional kindness to confront the President of this House when there are voting operations and situations like this can occur. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u70	If it is on this, Senator Sposetti, the theme has already been exhausted. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u71	BEEPS (PD). Mr President, if you transfer a small incident to the sensitivity of the Presidency of the Commission, I would like to defend the Presidency of the Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency of the Commission had to be informed that a vote was taking place. That is clear. BEEPS (PD). Mr President, we were allowed to work until 11 a.m. and we listened to the government's intervention. So the Presidency of the Commission could do nothing but let us sit there until 11 o'clock. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It was clear. All right.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u72	I declare open the discussion on government communications. He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u73	Mr President, Mr Secretary-General, I think it is quite indisputable that our country arrives at the European Council meeting, unfortunately, deeply defeated. I think it is appropriate to avoid hypocrisies and to say it with great clarity, openly, as well as to say very honestly that in this defeat our Government unfortunately has several responsibilities. We have asked several times to review the Dublin Regulation which obliges migrants - the Undersecretary mentioned it - to be registered and to remain in the country of first reception and which, therefore - as we know - penalises Italy and Greece more than anyone else. Unfortunately, we haven't been heard and our government hasn't even answered that much. We had long spoken here, too, about putting in place a completely different, more human, at the same time even more effective and just strategy, which was based - for example - on humanitarian corridors and on the right of asylum, but also on this we have been very little listened to, partly because we have done very little to be so. Rather than guaranteeing the refugees a civil welcome and defending the legitimate interests of Italy, our Government has been very careful to disturb very little the possible maneuverer. Moreover, perhaps he could not do otherwise, since, behind the fine words and even some verbal denunciations, his economic strategy is based on the benevolence of those manipulators, that is, on the willingness of Europe to turn a blind eye, sometimes even both eyes, to the real state of our accounts. Unfortunately, we are again in a dramatic situation, even if we probably pretend not to see the state of our country to the full. The forecasts contained in the DEF have been revised downwards and, even so, in unanimous opinion, they are much more rosy than they should be. Mr Undersecretary, of all European countries we are probably the least likely to benefit from the small recovery that is taking place. In just seven months, public debt has grown by over 80 billion euros and this is really an absolute record. Even the failure of the jobs act is so evident that even a very complacent press, such as the one that, unfortunately, often deals with political issues in our country, must take note of it. Not to mention youth unemployment, which remains at very high levels and is not even affected by those incentives paid by all of us to companies. Of course, we know the consequence, it is not news of today and we have not at all reversed the trend even in recent months: several tens of thousands of young people (100,000 in the last year) with high level of formation, very high in some cases, abandon our country. In order to attract foreign investment, the Government can boast only one thing: putting in place a lower labour cost among countries under similar conditions to ours. It does not take much to understand that this is really the worst and, in the future, the most counterproductive way. It really is a kind of decline rate close to irreversibleity. This dramatic situation is not only a responsibility for a worse international situation than expected, but it is also the result of a wrong policy, which nothing has done to take seriously the elements of inequality. For example, the funds available were used only and exclusively to try to produce consent and obtain votes. I am thinking of the 80 euro bonus and, then, the indiscriminate cancellation of the tax on the first house and now, that the constitutional referendum is imminent, the maneuver will probably serve once again to distribute some gifts, in the hope of thus winning the vote of the Italians. A government that has to ask Europe not to see the real state of its accounts and to forgive electoral gifts cannot afford to insist that - for example - the Dublin Regulation be seriously amended or that the refugee emergency be dealt with in a structurally different way. At most, the government can pretend to scream, as our President-in-Office of the Council did this morning in the Chamber of Deputies, and little more than that. However, I would like to use my time to denounce a fact that seems to me to be very serious and significant. In recent days, the European Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs Moscovici has broken a launch in favour of granting Italy the new flexibility margins required by the Government. Of course, we are not unaware that this measure would obviously be a good one. It would be, Mr Undersecretary, if it were not that the funds would be used for electoral expenses to benefit the Government before a decisive appointment such as that of the constitutional referendum. It seems to me that this is a very, very significant and also very serious thing and I think it is extremely wrong that Commissioner Moscovici justified his position not with a rethinking of the tragic policy of rigour, which has dramatically marked the history of recent years until producing the disaster in which we have collapsed today, and not even with the results obtained by Italy, but with the need - hear well - to support the Italian Government against alleged populist forces. Here it seems really unacceptable to me to imagine that one can admit that flexibility should be granted to Italy not to solve its structural issues, but to help our Government win the referendum. It seems to me to be an unbearable interference against free democratic consultation, and I believe that we should all have very clear and clear words on this, apart from the different political positions. I believe that this is a very serious and unacceptable precedent. The policy of rigour has proved disastrous in all these years, and for this reason, it must be abandoned. Using flexibility to take advantage of one political side rather than the other, a referendary front rather than the other, constitutes an interference that in a free country we should all be able to reject with great clarity, considering it an unbearable interference on what should be a democratic and free referendum campaign, in which the citizens of this country must be able to express themselves not on matters of contour, but on decisive elements that affect national political life. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u74	Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u75	Mr President, for the umpteenth time in this House, the President-in-Office of the Council renounces his presence and implicitly renounces his role to carry out a disastrous referendum campaign for yes, when the country is in the midst of an economic emergency. The Premier's need to necessarily change the Constitution is the example of the sidereal distance of your politics from the needs of the country. That's why you're gonna lose the referendum and go home. Let us return to today's subject: as I said, for the umpteenth time in this House we are talking about migrants, international trade treaties and relations with Russia. For the umpteenth time, the same recipes are being proposed in this House, which have proved to be bankrupt and to cause damage to the country. This is the case with the European Union's foreign policy, which actually produces an impressive amount of refugees, and this is an unjustified increase in tensions with Russia. Today we are talking about migrant emergencies because in 2011 the PD, party that supports this Government, pressed to bomb Gaddafi's Libya, creating chaos. Today, Mr. Undersecretary, we are hostage to the Islamic militias of Misrata, we are forced to support a Premier, al-Sarraj, who in Libya is not recognized by anyone and is forced to hide in a naval base in Tripoli, in full contrast to the UN resolution, which - I would remind you - did not say to form a government at all costs, to graft a fake Premier into a country in war, but had established a road map that saw an agreement between the Government of Tobruk and that of Tripoli, which has never happened. Thus, slowly, by Premier-designate, al-Sarraj became merely Premier and today Libya has fallen back into the same chaos of 2014, while poor minister Gentiloni is forced to run right and missing to support a puppet government lowered from above and sabotaged by Egyptians, French, English and Turks. This is the state of the art. In this situation you would like to train the Libyan Coast Guard; it takes someone to remind you that there is no shadow of the Libyan Coast Guard. Rather you are training the Navy of the Islamic militias of Misrata, on which they rely heavy suspicions in the management of human trafficking. Mr President, what a paradox: we finance those who could be the traffickers of human beings that we so much want to fight. It would be funny if there weren't the lives of thousands of people coming to Libya from Africa and from that Libya, in which before 2011 they stopped to work, now run away to avoid ending up in the hands of militias that you, along with your English, French, Egyptian, Turkish and Saudi allies/enemies, are financing. The same thing can be said about Syria, a peaceful country that until 2011 did not have a single refugee and that, thanks to your unbearable humanitarian rhetoric, the funding and arms you granted with the group "Friends of Syria," is now devastated by almost six years of war. In 2011 there was no refugee from Syria, today there are almost 4 million of them, plus 6 others in the country. We are not talking about Africa, from which hundreds of thousands of people come thanks to the industrious action of our multinationals, intent on financing bloodthirsty regimes and clearing up the resources of the Continent. Those whom you call economic migrants are somehow refugees of a low-intensity colonial war, which plunders resources from the times of colonial civilization works in an uninterrupted manner. So here we are: how can we address the issue of migrants without addressing the foreign policy of Italy and the European Union? So let us start with foreign policy and, to be less vague, let us start with sanctions for Russia. The 5 Star Movement has never supported sanctions against Russia because we see this country as an ally in at least two fields. In the economic field, Italy had a significant export to Russia. With the sanctions we have lost, according to estimates, about 1.5 billion; a resounding goal, which among other things has not brought us any benefit in geopolitical terms. In fact, we have isolated the Russians to welcome a Ukrainian Nazi Fascist government that persecutes its citizens of Russian origin and brings zero euros to our coffers. The other aspect concerning relations with Russia is linked to the fight against terrorism. Finally, the Russians, in a year, have done more than the "coalition of the willing" did in five. ISIS, an obscene creature, financed by Saudis, armed and trained by half the Western world, has lost 586 villages and cities and 12,360 square kilometers of territory. Today the dream of an Islamic caliphate is no longer feasible thanks to the Russians, certainly not the coalition raids. We in the 5 Star Movement then call for the lifting of sanctions against Russia and the formation of an international coalition against terrorism, including the Russians. What's the Democratic Party doing, is it in or out? At the same time, we call on the Government to act on irregular immigration in two directions: as far as Libya is concerned, to listen to the Libyan mayors, who believe me, Mr President, in that tortured country are the only ones who have passed since the elections. Again, Mr President, as far as the reception of migrants is concerned, we call for Europe to change course: what is the point of maintaining a military fleet when the emergency comes to the rescue of migrants? We have seen pictures of migrants crammed at the stern of military ships, close to each other. Military ships are made to fight, and not to save migrants. That is why we call on the Government to push Europe to turn the military naval mission into a civilian mission. It takes ferries not military ships to help migrants. On this point the 5 Star Movement is willing to discuss forms and modalities, provided that the aims are savings, effective rescue at sea and a different policy of redistribution of arrivals. The third point is the reception. You have created a confused and inhuman system for both migrants and Italian citizens, who from one day to the next are seen to descend from the other reception structures that cost an eye of the head and create wealth only to the few who manage them. We propose to pay compensation to the municipalities that receive migrants, because of the social hardships that the population and the municipality that welcomes suffer. If a municipality accepts migrants, in addition to management costs, it must receive money to spend on social services for its citizens, it must be exempted from compliance with the Stability Pact for those sums and it must be able to bring benefits for the territory. In the same way, assistance services for migrants, accommodation, food and what is needed must be provided by small and medium-sized enterprises in the territory, not by cooperatives that only benefit migrants. You will see how the municipalities and citizens will be happy to welcome migrants under these conditions. But you, with this system, feed on racism and corruption. This money must be paid by the European Union and not by the Italian Government and you have a duty to go to Europe and beat your fists on the table, without pantomime to Renzi, to understand us. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u76	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u77	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, the matters you have dealt with on behalf of and on behalf of the President-in-Office of the Council - and for this reason my Group thanks you - are on the agenda of the next European Council and concern two fundamental points of concern to our Group. I am referring first of all to the phenomenon of migration, on which we will have to take stock of the developments and progress made - alas few - in order to define the necessary guidelines in a general context marked by the failure to comply with agreements previously signed. Then there is the trade issue, in particular the position we must take towards Russia - the President-in-Office of the Council has spoken about it in the Chamber of Deputies, and you, Mr Undersecretary, also for matters of time, will let us know in reply - and the state of the art, which is still in the first steps. On the question of immigration, I am not extending, because I believe that the renewed form of autarchy by some countries, as in the case of Brexit, which takes on a particularly hateful form and which is essentially poured on the border countries, such as Italy and Greece, makes practically impossible any possible solution. Therefore, I believe that the immobilism to which the representative of the Government referred deserves to be deepened. I would also like to address one issue, which has not been dealt with by Mr Gozi, concerning our relations with Russia. There is no doubt, Mr Undersecretary, that it was Italy that made the pledge. I remember that in trade we lost 19 percent compared to 2014 and that we had a loss of about 6 billion euros. The loss of this market has concerned much of the made in, focusing particularly on agri-food, with a penalty that has hit the entire country, but mainly the Mezzogiorno of Italy; all while the foreign demand, which in 2012-2013 had played a leading role, attenuating the bites of austerity, since 2014 has undergone a sharp reversal of trend, forcing the Italian economic policy to take more account of domestic demand than the support of exports and this has been an exercise more difficult than ever due to the constraints placed to the expansion of public demand. Then, during the explanation of vote, Senator Amoruso will express the opinion of our Group on the various resolutions that will be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, there is a passage from President Renzi's speech to the House of Deputies which has particularly impressed me, namely the attention Europe must have for Africa and the incredible amnesia of the Bratislava document. A few weeks ago, at the summit of the NATO Subcommittee in Cairo, the representative of the Egyptian Ministry of Foreign Affairs complained to us about how Europe has substantially disregarded the Malta Agreement of November 2015, with which it was committed to providing resources and tools for the control of migratory flows and for the development of African countries, in an overall framework also for the management of the humanitarian emergency and refugees. This is just one example, but it is good for the idea of a Europe that too often - to use the words of the President of the Council - seems to be driven by a frantic immobilism; the same that we find on the accounts, on the recognition of a certain amount of economic flexibility for countries like ours, which are called to manage extraordinary and dramatic events such as the earthquake, the management of migratory flows, but also the fight against terrorism. National selfishness and vetoes are of no use and cannot be justified. Some countries - and I am referring above all to those in the East - which benefit from structural funds and are assisted in sectors such as industrial and agricultural sectors, cannot fail to give their solidarity when Europe faces a serious migration crisis. Fortunately, sometimes there is some light. I just want to mention two recent events: the green light given by Strasbourg, without waiting for the formal approval of individual governments, for the entry into force of the Paris agreement on climate and for the containment of global warming, but also the extremely meritorious initiative of the free Interrail for eighteen, an opportunity to know, understand, open the eyes, to feel like all children of a single European home. However, that is not enough: today Europe is crossed by populisms that make its legs shake because of their will to raise walls, which would undermine the very foundations of the European dream - it should be said -. Brexit, Poland, Austria, the Hungarian referendum and the local elections in Germany: the list is very long and we really hope not to add the debate on the constitutional referendum too, with that perverse spiral of the much worse, all the better that unfortunately I see alearning, when instead we should seriously and serenely reason on the merits of the reform and the opportunity that it can constitute for the simplification of the system. This is a populism that is nourished by Europe's inability to have been a reference point especially during the difficult years of the crisis and that cannot shake off this image. I was very impressed to find that the country that, one year after the entry into force of the Juncker plan, managed to intercept the largest share of resources was the United Kingdom, followed closely from Italy. It is evidence that - beyond the economic aspects that are absolutely important and on which our Government is doing well to keep the point - Europe pays seriously the divisions between countries, the absence of a strong unity of intent to manage serious and complex situations, such as those we have stated. For this reason, the battle that this Government has always fought in Europe to free the resources destined to archive the austerity season is absolutely acceptable: the rules serve to achieve the objectives and not vice versa. Unfortunately, even the Autonomous Province of Trento today finds itself, because of the wrong rules, a surplus of budget at risk of freezing, where the only fault is that it has been able to manage its budget carefully and effectively. It will be discussed elsewhere, but this is also a very important point on which I ask the Government's commitment to resolving it. I welcome the overall attitude of the Commission in Europe on migration flows, on the search for new authority. Europe must stop the race for demolition, the result of national selfishness, in order to return to being the place of hope, the point of reference for generations of the future. Europe is the greatest political intuition of the twentieth century, but today it is above all a necessary and indispensable actor in the complexity of a multipolar world, crossed by tremendous wars, a world that sees countries like China entering a new phase, entirely new in economic and partly social terms; a world that must be able to measure and compare with Putin's Russia. I would like to make one final comment, ladies and gentlemen, on the trip that President Renzi will make to the United States. We are all following with great trepidation the evolution of the presidential campaign; a bad campaign, for tones and arguments, which unfortunately brings us back to what is happening in Europe. There is one last initiative that perhaps President Obama can do for our country. I am talking about Chico Forti, an Italian citizen with a judicial affair rich in dark elements, on which last year the Chamber of Deputies unanimously approved a motion for the reopening of the trial. I myself tabled a similar motion here in the Senate and it was signed and shared by dozens of colleagues; moreover, there was no lack of appeals to President Mattarella to launch a diplomatic initiative to ask for grace. The story of Forti continues to interest and shake a significant part of our public opinion and in particular that of Trentino. I hope then that the President of the Council, also on the basis of the motion voted in the House and the document presented in the Senate, will take this opportunity to refer the matter to President Obama. [[Applause from Senators Puppato and Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u79	Senator Repetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u80	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are on the eve of yet another European Council and we must admit that the spirit is becoming increasingly resigned in the face of an increasingly closed Europe and a prisoner of the fears of individual countries. After Brexit you could expect (in fact, you expected) an awareness and a step forward towards greater cohesion. The meeting to remember Altiero Spinelli and his manifesto for a united Europe also made us hope that three great nations such as France, Germany and Italy had taken advantage of the decision of the English people to leave the European Union, finally deciding to change course, to take a different political line as well as a clearer and more unified one. However, despite the efforts of the President of the Council and the Government, this has not happened. On the contrary, there is a lack of ideas due to the defensive position of some countries, especially France and Germany, pending the forthcoming elections, which really puts the European Union and its civil and democratic future at risk. In fact, it is useless to deny that today Europe is only a set of national policies, in some cases even nationalisms and dangerous chauvinisms. Italy in this context is a virtuous model, even if we are left alone to face gigantic problems, on which, moreover, extremists and populists of the house are rushed without scruples. I believe that it is a serious mistake for the democratic forces in Europe, frightened by the right, speculating on the fears of the citizens, to postpone important decisions rather than to immediately re-launch, with determination, the ideas underlying united and united Europe. The President of the Council and the Government have a very impervious path ahead; they face several difficult challenges - but all linked together - for the future of our country. First of all, there is the challenge of Europe, where Italy certainly has a fundamental, but not exclusive role, because it also serves the commitment and determination of the democratic forces of other European countries and their leaders, who must demonstrate that they are true leaders who do not barter their principles for the fear of the advance of populisms, and then there is the internal challenge of Italy: Italy that needs a jump, a real change; Italy that needs to show itself, even before the rest of the world that is there waiting to see what will happen on December 4, to know how to turn the page and look to the future. This challenge also depends not only on the political forces that support the reform and on President Renzi, who is fighting for the approval of the constitutional reform with all his strength (and this is an honour because he is fighting not for his victory but for a victory of the country and of all Italians). That's what Italians need to know. That is why it depends above all on them: it is a battle that concerns their future, not that of the Government, and that must win them. The approval of this reform is an opportunity to really turn the page, closing the chapter of the past and looking to the future with more maturity, strength and ability to build a better Italy within a better Europe. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u81	Mr President, there are also some new things on the table of the European Council that deserve the attention of this House. It seems to me that there is too much relaxation, if not resignation, with which important innovations such as the provision of a migration act can finally become a necessary act within the European Union. However, I would like to say that much more is being done by Undersecretary Sandro Gozi and, in the near future, by the European Council, Matteo Renzi. In fact, it is going through silence like the European Union and the refugee emergency also through important acts such as considering, in fact, the borders of each State facing the sea as a single European border. Therefore, those seas, those lakes, in which many of the migrants move, but also much more, are important and must be considered in a unified context, dealt with jointly by all the European States within the European Union. The Single Border Police, a single Coast Guard, is an event of extraordinary value, to give credit in the determination that this Government is having. On 6 October, in fact, it was ratified, and in the coming weeks, this project will be implemented, which is not only the certification of a single frontier, but also of common policies against abuse, illicit trafficking in waste, illicit trafficking in arms and men, in full respect of the dictates of civilization that Europe, as a whole, must make prevail, compared to small or even national interests. It is also good to strengthen aid to Africa, aid for education, reconstruction and work, in order to keep in their lands those who today flee from death and despair. Therefore, this European Council is a fact of great political importance, which announces the start of a time when common policies towards Africa and from our borders towards these seas can also lead to the assumption of a united and stronger Europe. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u82	Mr President, we are aware - as it seems - of the fact that next week our President-in-Office of the Council will go to Brussels, to talk mainly about immigration, a very complex issue, which has already been dealt with on numerous occasions without any concrete facts ever coming out. But do you want to know how important our Prime Minister is in Europe? We did the math. Thanks to the vote of the European Parliament, Italy has managed to snatch a minimum of solidarity from the other Member States: the relocation of 39.600 migrants, on a total package of 160,000, to be redistributed proportionally in all 28 Member States. Instead, by 30 September, they left Italy 1,258 asylum seekers, just 3.1 percent of the total. Another point of the discussion will be the international treaties TTIP and CETA. The Transatlantic Treaty is not a regulation born of a democratic process, but a contractual agreement written by unelected and non-representative officials. The Renzi Government, on the other hand, continues to strongly support the approval of the Transatlantic Treaty, even declaring itself in favour of an EU procedure only and expelling the national states. This procedure is acceptable for economic treaties, but not for TTIP, which is a mixed treaty. In fact, Italy itself has positions incompatible with the clauses negotiated by the Americans, having to defend 42 excellences of Made in Italy from the assault of American products. If TTIP is in a comatose state today and is going to live a better life, it is due only to the will of millions of European citizens, who have manifested long and strongly, forcing European rulers to take note of it. The third item on the agenda, namely relations with Russia, whose embargo - as we have heard - cost us 1.5 billion euros of non-export, only underlines how the President-in-Office of the Council is considered at European level. The others decide, paying particular attention to their interests, and we suffer; the only thing that the President of the Council is able to organize is a mini-cruise in Ventotene. I believe that the behaviour that Europe has in its own, and consequently also in ours, is due to the fact that the President-in-Office of the Council is no longer credible and tells balls in industrial quantities; and for a professional there is nothing worse than not to be credible. Whether he is a professional in politics there is no doubt: he has passed from one public office to another without temporal discontinuity. The best Berlusconi would have called him "fanigotto." The credibility and authority of the President-in-Office of the Council are undermined by his willingness to tell balls, from those on banks to the numbers of the jobs act, to RAI, to the discharge of the responsibilities on previous governments, not to mention those on the referendum. But the maximum apotheosis is the one on Italicum, the best law that the whole world will copy us and that now thinks to retouch. I stop here, but there would still be the Bridge on the Strait of Messina and away from this step. However, there are numbers that are boulders: 107,000 Italians left Italy in 2015 (not a zero comma), to which must be added the 101,000 of 2014. These young people are our future, those who have strength and ideas, who will be enriching the other states. Then we want to talk about brochures to encourage foreign investors to come to Italy, in which it was said that an engineer costs on average 10,000 euros a year less than the rest of Europe and that the growth of labour costs in the three-year period 2012-2014 was the lowest in the eurozone? In this area, I believe only Herod did worse than he did. Herod killed a generation, he forced her to emigrate. Dr. Renzi, if you think my words are exaggerated, I invite you to read not the blog, but some independent international journalists, the few that you and your friends at J.P. Morgan, you haven't bought yet. However, wherever you look at it, the slap that Moscovici gave you a few days ago, the European Commissioner for Economic Affairs, is portentous and sound and should lead you to a serene reflection. Moscovici said that in Italy there is a populist threat and added: This is why we support Renzi's efforts to be a strong partner within the European Union. Yes, you have understood well: if the 5 Star Movement were not a coherent and credible political force, not affordable, which frightens Europe because it is on the side of the citizen, they would not have granted the flexibility that Renzi demands, necessary to buy referendum votes. Dr. Renzi, remember that the flexibility that will be granted is not due to your skill, but to the fact that there is the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u83	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u84	Mr President, I think that Italy needs more Europe, even if Europe is under-managed by mediocre bureaucrats. Europe must say a strong no to initiatives such as the Calais Wall, which dishonors two major countries such as France and the United Kingdom. We need a genuine immigration policy on the part of Europe, bearing in mind that political instability, wars and terrorism have changed the conditions on which the previous agreements were based. In economic terms, we must be credible. The fact that the change in the DEF is not approved by the Parliamentary Budget Office does not increase our credibility, rather it reduces the international prestige of Italy to zero. Finally, I would like to remind you of a fact. We will probably get flexibility, but we must remember that the word "flexible" is synonymous with "public debt" and "additional debt." This means that public debt will increase and this will lead to more taxes, more problems and less well-being for future generations: I do not think it is a great result. We contract debt not to make investments that produce income increase and development in the country, but for initiatives that give money - like 80 euros and now money to pensioners - to people who have the right to have more money. For Christ's sake, it is money that is morally well spent, but we must note that this type of expenditure, on the one hand, increases our debt and, on the other hand, does not improve the economic situation of our country and, therefore, has very negative effects on the economic situation of today's Italy, but above all of the future. [[Applause from Senator Sciascia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u85	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cociancich. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u86	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Gozi for his communication. I believe that today we are used to talking about the European Union, especially with regard to the economic issues and the margins of flexibility of the Stability and Growth Pact. However, I would like to remind you that the European Union also has another dimension, which is important and that we must not neglect, contained in the very first articles of the Treaty on European Union, which deals with the principles on which it is based. With your permission, I would like to read Article 2 and the first part of Article 3, which states that the Union is based on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. These values are common to the Member States in a society characterised by pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men. The aim of the Union is to promote peace, its values and the well-being of its peoples. The Union offers its citizens an area of freedom, security and justice without internal borders, in which the free movement of persons is ensured together with appropriate measures regarding external border controls, asylum, immigration, crime prevention and the fight against crime. When I heard critical remarks about the European Union today from some of my colleagues, I had the confirmation of a suspicion I have had for a long time: today, those who are enemies of the European Union are enemies of these values and those who, on the other hand, defend the European Union, defend these values. Several times it has been said that there are populisms that are trying to disintegrate the European Union, and that is true. We have seen today, too, talking about groups that are allies in the European Parliament, or that have been, with UKIP, the group that has managed to get the United Kingdom out of the European Union. It is those political groups who preach the construction of walls around and sometimes within the European Union and who are therefore enemies of the values in which we recognize ourselves. Today we have a political battle that is not only between State and State but between those who bear a certain kind of values and those who deny them, perhaps affirming them theoretically but then, with ambiguous and grey behaviors, rejecting them in practice. These are populisms that we do not need today because they are enemies of the history of the Union, that history that we have made a fundamental contribution to it (and we intend to continue to do so with an action that has been absolutely valuable of the Italian Government, which has been respected, has regained credibility in the European Union and today, thanks to this credibility, acquires an essential space for economic manoeuvre to restore momentum to our economy). I believe that what has been mentioned today by Secretary Gozi is important about the priorities that are being given to government action and that must become the priorities of the European Union. Right from the start, this government has been a problem. The other States initially opposed a brake, a certain caution, but then we started along the line that was indicated by the Italian Government. Mr President, I should like briefly to mention a few points on immigration which I believe are fundamental. We must implement the principle of solidarity between the Member States and those States which do not respect this principle and which do not respect the principles contained in Article 1 and Article 2 of the Treaty should be sanctioned as those who violate other points of the Treaty. The European Union must defend its principles even when it comes to values and not just economic parameters. We must continue to carry out an action that saves human lives, especially when they are in danger and when they are at sea. It is a principle of civilization that we cannot derogate from and we cannot accept the behaviour and gray attitudes of those who say on the one hand that, yes, we must save migrants, but then we must send them back. I have listened to words that I do not agree with at all. And also on the attitude towards Russia, with which we certainly share some economic interests, we must not forget that Russia is supporting those who are massacring Aleppo, and therefore, when we are told that we should solidarity with Russia, I would like to say that we should solidarity with the citizens of Aleppo, not with Russia, and indeed, we should ask Russia to respect the principles in which we recognise ourselves at European level. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We must certainly go beyond the Dublin Regulation and ask our partners to do so and implement a centralised system for managing asylum applications. We must enforce the relocation agreements that have been entered into by our partners and that commit them to relocating a much greater number of people than they have so far agreed to relocate. We must activate paths, humanitarian corridors in order to try to avoid the trade that is carried out within the Mediterranean and to help those in danger of life to have at least the right to survival. We must therefore fight against the exploitation of migrants, open channels of economic immigration because it is not only refugees who are entitled to come to our continent. Our continent has also been built thanks to economic immigration. Many of us are children and grandchildren of economic migrants who are a great resource for a continent that is struggling today, because it is the people who have the most motivation to be the protagonists of economic recovery and we must value them, we must not let them rot in reception centres, in the CIE, we must develop their enthusiasm for life, for economic activity and ask them to help us improve the conditions of our country, because there is so much to do in our country, there are so many jobs that our compatriots are no longer willing to do. We value these resources and this enthusiasm, we welcome them while at the same time demanding that, in exchange for the welcome, there be respect for our values and there be an active contribution to the growth of our country. We must therefore promote a European integration plan for migrants and above all we must try to act on the causes of immigration, which means starting paths of economic partnership and growth with the countries of origin of migrants, starting with more decisive action on the international cooperation plan that helps these countries to create the conditions for which, then, migration can be regulated with more acceptable flows and more planned than they are today, because today the problem is not the flows but the absolutely chaotic situation in which these migrants move. Today the real problem is not the flows, but it is the absolutely chaotic situation in which these migrants move. Therefore, President, I would like to close my speech simply by recalling the words spoken by Pope Francis in Lesbos, with whom he indicated the way of hope, against the fear of belonging to a human community, and the human dignity of those who flee from despair, indicating this as the way of brotherhood. These are the values in which, as a Democratic Party, we recognize ourselves and for which we are willing to make strong battles, with our heads high, without being absolutely ashamed of what we have done in recent years. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u87	I declare the debate on government communications closed. I note that motions for resolutions No 1, No 2 by Senator Calderoli and No 3, No 3, by Senators Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller, No 4 by Senator Compagna and other Senators, No 5 by Senator Bertorotta and other Senators, No 6 by Senator De Petris and other Senators, and No 7 by Senator Romani Paolo and other Senators have been tabled. I call on the State Secretary to speak to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, Mr Gozi, and I would also ask him to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u88	Mr President, I have listened with interest to the debate and I thank all the senators who have spoken. Many of the interventions, starting with those of Senator De Cristofaro and Senator Puppato, focused on migration, giving diametrically opposed assessments. You will not be surprised, Senator De Cristofaro, if I tend to share more of Senator Puppato's analysis rather than hers, but I would also like to explain why: there are not only words, but policies, decisions and commitments that the European Union has taken today and that - as you know very well - are words and commitments that used to speak only Italian and are entirely attributable, starting from the Italian Presidency of the European Union, to the action of our Government. I would like to remind you of some of these: the first word is migration compact, on which - as you know - there are finally negotiations in progress, which also go in the direction desired by your Group in the various debates we have held in this House. Indeed, you have rightly asked Italy - and, through our Government, Europe - several times to change the approach on development and immigration, first of all with regard to Africa. You have rightly always argued that Africa must be Europe's top priority. We have fought for this and we are currently negotiating migration pacts that must combine a new strategy for public and private investment, for which the European Commission has committed itself to allocating resources. In the evaluation of President Juncker these resources will reach up to 44 billion euros - for us we must go even further, but it is important to have a new instrument - that are added to the current budget, in exchange for commitments, by the countries of origin, to address together with us the main causes of migratory phenomena: insufficient development, but also the fight against traffickers of human beings and against trafficking of various kinds. That is what we are doing, and that is what the European Commission is doing at our initiative. This is what our Minister for Foreign Affairs and Under-Secretary of State, Mr Mantua, have done, on a mandate from the European Union, in countries such as Niger, Nigeria and Mali, to name but a few. We are going exactly in the direction desired by Senator De Cristofaro. To move on to the issue of the economy, we too believe - as has been pointed out in some speeches - that the European Union's growth policy is absolutely insufficient. We were the first to put this issue and the first to get some initial answers, after for many years in Brussels the word "investment" had disappeared from the European Union vocabulary (to the letter I would have found only the word inflation, but the word investment would not have found it anymore). As you know, the European Union has already launched a first strategic investment plan for growth (the Juncker plan). Today, on our own initiative too - and you have heard the President-in-Office repeat it several times in this House - President Juncker and the European Commission have committed themselves to doubling that Plan, bearing in mind some major priorities such as the environment, digital, small and medium-sized enterprises, by mobilising up to EUR 630 billion, compared to the 315 initials, by 2020. This is another concrete answer that goes in the direction that many Groups have wished for, and it is the direction in which Italy wants to go. Do we consider this sufficient? No. Do we consider this a necessary first step to move in the right direction? Absolutely. The interventions of the 5 Star Movement and other Groups have repeatedly referred to the European Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs, Moscovici, who, as Commissioner, only applies policies and rules in the way the European Commission has undertaken to do. From this point of view too, I am a little surprised at the criticisms I have heard in this House, because at last a Commissioner keeps the line and applies European policies, as always Italy has asked, that is, intelligently, giving more budgetary margins to the countries that make investments and reforms. We have always said - and this has been repeated by all the Groups, of majority and opposition - that Romano Prodi was right when he called the Stability Pact stupid if applied rigidly. Today we have a President of the European Commission who has committed himself to implementing a rule, that of flexibility, which means applying the Stability Pact intelligently. I believe that when there is a Commissioner who confirms this line, all political forces should say: It is good, at last a matter of common sense, a step in a good direction, rather than making polemics that leave the time they find, because this is certainly not the fundamental political point; instead it is the step forward that we are taking, confirmed also by Commissioner Moscovici. On the other hand, I think it is important to work together - said Senator Puppato - to ensure that the progress made is finally being achieved. Therefore, it is certainly very important that the European Police Corps and the Coast Guard of the external borders are immediately operational, because that is the European response we want. We are not wrong about borders: the answer to manage the issue of human flows and also security is not to establish the borders between Italy and Austria or between Italy and France, it is not to return to national borders, but to work together with common instruments and with truly European commitments, where there is a need to intervene, that is, external borders. From this point of view, we believe that this is a very important step forward. I agree with what Senator Barani said about insufficient compliance with the distribution agreements for asylum seekers. We all said that. I have also had the opportunity to say this in the General Affairs Council and, therefore, I repeat this in this House: my personal assessment is that there would be all the conditions for the European Commission to initiate infringement proceedings against Member States which continue to fail to fully comply with the commitments made in relation to the redistribution of asylum seekers, because this is a legally binding agreement, which is legally taken at European level, but which is not respected by some Member States. Certainly I take note of Senator Panizza's wish; we place him within the importance attributed to relations between Italy and the United States, so we hope that what you have indicated can go in the right direction, and precisely in that direction goes the commitment of the Government in relations with the United States. Mr President, these are some of the points I felt important to make. Now, if you will excuse me, I shall give my views on the resolutions. I am opposed to Senator Calderoli's motion for a resolution No 1. I am against the motion for a resolution No 2 by Senator Centinario and others. I am in favour of Senator Zanda's motion for a resolution No 3 and other senators. I am in favour of the motion for a resolution No 4, first signed by Senator Compagna, if reworded by removing the second and third premise. On the next page the penultimate considered must be deleted, beginning with the words: The countries which have been most penalized (...).......................................................... As regards commitments, the opinion is opposed to the first three and supports the last two. With regard to Resolution No 5, signed by Senator Bertorotta and others, the opinion is opposed. The Government's opinion is in favour of Resolution No 6, signed by Senator De Petris and other senators, provided that the following proposals for wording are accepted. With regard to the premises, it is proposed to delete the first three on page 1 and the first three and last two on page 2. It is also proposed to remove the first two and last two premises on page 3 and the first and last two on page 4. As regards commitments, the opinion is in favour of the first and also the second, provided that the words after the word "Dublin" are expunged. The opinion is against the third commitment and favours the fourth, provided that the words after the word "CEDU" are expunged. The opinion also supports the fifth commitment, provided that the words after the word "dignified" are deleted. The opinion was in favour of the sixth commitment. With regard to the seventh commitment, the following rewording is proposed: "to promote full and clear information on the possibility of seeking international protection in the countries of origin and transit". The opinion is contrary to the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh commitments. The opinion supports the twelfth commitment, provided that the words after the word "Warsaw" are expunged. As regards the thirteenth commitment, I propose that it be reworded as follows: It shall support, including at European level, any action to promote the implementation of the Minsk agreements, including with a view to facilitating the standardisation of economic relations. The opinion supports the fourteenth commitment and also the fifteenth commitment, provided that the formula is used to assess whether it is appropriate to do so and that the words after the word "actors" are deleted. If the proposals for reformulation outlined above are accepted, the Government's opinion in Resolution No 6 is in favour. With regard to Resolution No 7, signed by Senator Paolo Romani and other senators, the opinion is in favour of the premises and commitments, provided that the proposals for rewording that I am preparing to present are accepted. With regard to the fourth commitment, the proposal for rewording is as follows: "to continue to promote bilateral agreements with countries of origin" with reference to the fifth commitment: "to reiterate the need to revise the clauses of the Dublin III Regulation; with regard to the seventh commitment: It is committed to the rapid implementation of the European Border and Coast Guard Police Corps with a view to strengthening the (...). With regard to the tenth commitment, I propose to replace the words: "to overcome the shortcomings which may still be found in this commitment by the following: "to ensure the full implementation of the new policies for the future." With regard to the commitments of the last page, I propose to add to point 1, after the words 'bilateral relations', the words 'on what conditions and actions are appropriate to promote, in the European context, the normalization of relations with the Russian Federation'. The opinion was opposed to point 2. With regard to point 3, I propose that the formula be used: If these proposals for reformulations were accepted, the Government's opinion would be favourable.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u89	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u92	Comrade (CoR). Mr President, of course, our Group is grateful to Mr Gozi for how he summed up the President of the Council's speech to the House this morning. However, Mr Gozi allows us to make a critical and important comment on that speech. There is a stone party: the starting point of the affair brought to Parliament's attention is Bratislava. And no! Before Bratislava, the government had given an appointment to the international community, to the historical memory of Italian Europeanism, in Ventotene. Therefore, the premises were quite different from that press conference in Bratislava, which led - I understand - Mr Gozi to ask for the removal from our motion of the point where we say what the government had said on that occasion and which was, however, the denunciation of the political and diplomatic failure of the Ventotene summit. We are an opposition party that has the sense of the national state and the shared international policy and, therefore, we accept the invitation of the President of the Council to share more and more; but, in order to be able to share, we need a rate of personalization of foreign policy a little less pushed and a little less unscrupulous than what has been so successful in Ventotene and so little success in Bratislava. 12:27 a.m. (Following comrade). From this point of view, I am sorry that this has not been collected by anyone and, then, I will pick it up. Last night, in the debate on the calendar, a colleague who has a great deal of prestige on these issues, Senator Mario Mauro, recalled how in many countries of Europe, especially in Germany, it was noted that Italy's participation in these Councils is absolutely bipolar. In the Council we say or do not say and in the press conferences we talk about everything else. This is the physiological nature of politics in the modern sense, but from this point of view, let me point out that the President of the Council has increasingly used and abused it. Let us come to some more specific point. On the question of emigration the Italian Government escapes just as the German Government and Chancellor Merkel organized their own trip to Mali, Niger and Ethiopia, i.e. to those countries in which the President of the Council announced this morning the negotiations to open diplomatic channels. Apart from the fact that this threat formulated in the press conferences of Bratislava by President Renzi - but also, more than a hundred years ago, in the important moments of national unity - that Italy will do for itself has never brought much luck to our country, we are also attentive and assume a critical attitude, but attention to nationalism. Since I am addressing this issue, I am talking about a great democratic country, Great Britain. We have heard from Britain - perhaps as a reaction to certain excesses of intrusiveness by others, even with reference to the President of the United States when voting on Brexit - a staunch nationalist intransigence. We have heard proposals such as the limitation of foreign students or even the need to make known the number of non-English employees by companies. Well, from this point of view, we expect Europe and the European summit not to be nationalistic in retaliation, but to be very careful. So let's stop with this rhetoric of Italy that it will do for itself. All the more so because the President-in-Office of the Council mentioned this morning a great Europeanist of socialist tradition, Jürgen Habermas, who spoke of Europe's hectic immobilism. The frenetic immobilism of Europe certainly exists, but if I can also personalize for the purposes of depersonalization, then also renzism - this way of participating in the press conference in a dress and in the Council in a different dress from the current President of the Council - is hectic immobilism. It is a hectic immobility that we must correct. That is also why, without prejudice to other attitudes, we will abstain on the majority resolution. We shall also abstain on the other resolutions. We can perhaps vote in favour of our own, although, as I have explained, we agree, but we cannot accept the points on which Mr Gozi spoke against. I would like to make one last remark which is not a criticism of you, Mr Gozi and, perhaps, not even the President-in-Office of the Council. The summit also provides for a debate on the relationship with Russia, even as a start of discussion. The summit is tomorrow. For four or five days now we have only been talking about this in Germany and France. It seems to me that the avarice of considerations on the subject of the President of the Council in the Italian Parliament is part of that tacticism so well documented last night by Mr Mauro Mario. All the more so, thankful to Mr Gozi, we make a total abstention vote of our own. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u93	I greet the students and teachers of the School Institute of the Holy Family of Martinengo, in the province of Bergamo, who are today visiting the Senate and are attending our work. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u96	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, as a Group we are pleased that the Government has sent Mr Gozi because we have seen a quiet, moderate and calm debate in this House, contrary to what has happened to the House of Deputies, where the Government has sent another person who - alas - has decided to take away the role of the President of the Council and become an instigator, throwing strangles and insults at all those who oppose his triumphal march towards 4 December. Yesterday we said that we would like it in this House; let us have you rather than the President-in-Office of the Council, whom I shall address. For me it was necessary to have him here in order to be able to tell him what we think. As far as flexibility is concerned, Mr President, we all know how it is working. Seen and considered in Europe there are the ugly and bad populists who are telling European citizens what is not working, instead of solving the problems we pour some money. Therefore, EUR 19 billion in flexibility in the previous two years and now another 7 billion in debt. Italy continues to be in debt to make the President of the Council Renzi a good figure in view of the referendum on 4 December. On immigration, colleagues and absent President of the Council, I do not speak. I say that very honestly. We do not intervene because we have always said and made proposals and then, in the end, you have always done what you wanted. The result is not in these classrooms, in the Senate Assembly and in the Chamber Assembly, but we see it on the streets, in hotels and wherever we have these desperate people arriving in our country. We only remember the numbers and we do so to leave them to the memory of the posterity, of the next elected senators who will arrive in this House; 11 October 2016, 144,518 landings. As for the reception we are worse, because in 2013 we were 22,000 people welcomed - and therefore helped - and, today as today, we are 163,000. It is a business for cooperatives, colleagues, which is worth more than 2 billion euros just to provide food and accommodation. When we say that immigration, in this case very often illegal, is a business for someone, we say it with reason. In a few days, Renzi will go to Europe: he will now be shooting, saying that he will make false cards on immigration, but in a few days we will hear the President of the Council say how bad and bad Europe is, since it does not listen to it. When you are not authoritative and when your own word is not authoritative, this happens. It is useless to invite Merkel and Hollande on vacation in Ventotene, if nothing is done in Europe. As far as everything else is concerned, dear President of the Renzi Council, let us start from the subject that is most dear to you. I am not referring to the problems of Italy, but to the constitutional referendum. In the history of the Republic, there had never been a President-in-Office of the Council who had the idea of personalising a constitutional referendum. We don't think he's naive enough to make a mistake, as he goes around saying now. After the vote of the European elections, with 40% of the votes, he thought he wanted to do what he wanted, but unfortunately, gentlemen, the wind has changed and consequently our President-in-Office of the Council is forced to go around right and left, hoping that the Italians will once again believe in the panzanes that are being told. There is no point in the fact that the image consultant, paid by all of us, Mr Messina, in training the volunteers who will turn to indoctrinate the reasons for the yes, continues not to bind the referendum to the President-in-Office of the Council. This means that the President-in-Office of the Council has done everything wrong, in so many of the things he is doing. He says, for example, that he wants to save money on the costs of politics: he may be saying this at the moment, because instead of being present in the Senate Chamber he is elsewhere, giving a press conference, reminding the Italians how good, beautiful, nice and efficient he is. So let us be clear, Mr. Renzi: to participate in the 220 events in sixty days that you are planning, will you use the money of the Government or those of the Democratic Party? Given that in this period of time it will have to participate in four meetings a day, we will also put in crowds Italy, like the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, in which the less things we do and the less things we do are challenging the better. He must explain to us, since politics is bad, it is bad and it must be sent home - the policy that, as I said yesterday, he also feeds him - with what money Minister Boschi went to Argentina and South America to do electoral propaganda for the yes to the referendum. We believe that once again he spent the money of the Italians: we pay and they do beautiful things around the world. We ask you another question, asking what were the economic choices you made while you were busy writing the constitutional reforms. We had proposed to you to do the good of Italy, taking it out of this situation, and then to do the constitutional reforms: instead, no, you preferred to do the constitutional reform at once. Therefore, we remind the absent President - always absent - that during his Government the largest Italian company, the FCA, took weapons and luggage and went abroad, transferring the headquarters: not bad! You will tell me, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that you have found a solution for INPS by inventing the pension advance (EPA) by transforming a pension institution into a commercial agent serving insurance and banks. [[Applause from Senator Puglia.]] We must recognise that it has a very high sensitivity to banks. Too bad there isn't the same sensitivity and attention to savers. In fact, you started with the compensations of savers cheated on subordinated bonds, but only 20 people out of over 10,000 were compensated. The result is as follows: one banks, zero savers. The important thing, however, is to talk about the Constitution. There must also be a reflection on Europe, since tomorrow it will go there: it is now much clearer because it continues to make us servants of Merkel. You claim that if Italy came out of Europe, the spread would rise. President absent, explain to us why, during your two and a half years of government, although the spread is at very low levels, the public debt is constantly increasing? This is because you are spenders, because you continue to spend as if we were at a fair. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You don't have to be economists to understand that your government is spending more than its predecessors. I'll give you a figure you probably missed. President Renzi, do you know how long you've been sitting on that cadrega (chair, for the rest of the Italians)? It's been a thousand days and its government is the fourth longest in the history of our Republic. Therefore, these are all excuses that you are saying, saying that you cannot govern with two Chambers: you are not able to govern. In fact, with a thousand days he had all the time and could prove anything, instead he was not able to do anything: he was not able to raise the economy of this country, he was not able to respect the promises made to the Italians. We ask you a courtesy: avoid selling yourself as a financial expert. Maybe you can sell it as an expert in English, but not as a financial expert. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In July you said that you had to invest by buying the shares of the Monte dei Paschi bank in Siena, but we remind you that from July until now the shares have gone from 30 to 17 cents. Let's do a calculation quickly, because maybe in addition to English he doesn't even know math: the action has lost 40%. Wasn't Bank Etruria enough? Now there's Monte dei Paschi. Are you prepared to do anything to win the yes in the referendum? We heard two American banks, Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan, lined up for the yes. Excuse me, President, is JP Morgan the bank that is fixing the file of the Monte dei Paschi bank in Siena? Give to receive: you propaganda to buy shares of the bank Monte dei Paschi and they say that in the referendum it is right to vote yes. Wasn't the Democratic Party a part of those who were supposed to help the weakest? Today, however, it is helping banks, which are everything but weak players. Mr Renzi, we must therefore ask you, and perhaps also Mr Boschi, to add words such as the following to the referendary question: do you want the State to continue to spend more money by increasing the taxes of the municipalities? You want to lose your money like with Bank Etruria? Do you want to lose your right to vote? Vote yes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Before concluding, Madam President, I would like to remind the President of the Globetrotter Council - since he is on the tour for Italy - that there are Italians who believed in him and who unfortunately have been screwed at the moment. Let me give you two examples: Mr. Alessandro and Mr. Fabio. Mr. Alessandro called me a few days ago; unfortunately he is a terminal cancer patient who has listened to the nonsense that the President of the Council said a few days ago during the electoral campaign for yes: cancer sufferers with yes will be able to get treatment. Mr. Alessandro called us and said he'd vote no. Then I remind you of Mr. Fabio, who committed suicide: he was a precarious firefighter who was fired and took his own life. This, Madam President, is a state homicide, because for years the precarious firemen have been asking this government, the previous government and the one before they were settled, but they are not getting any answers. I am here to bring the voice of Mr Fabio and all his colleagues who were protesting in front of Montecitorio a few days ago. On that occasion many colleagues from the Democratic Party went to fill their mouths and make promises: solve the problems of the Italians and then we will talk about the Constitution. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u97	Colleagues, I warn you that, for a mere disguido, no notice has been given of the presentation of motion for a resolution No 8 by Senator Barani and other senators. I would therefore ask the representative of the Government, Mr Gozi, to comment on this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u98	Madam President, I have just received the motion for a resolution. The opinion is in favour of rewording the premise, where we are talking about the agreement between Europe and Canada, which begins with the words: "the reflection of these phenomena". It asks, that is, to eliminate the last sentence from the words: "in practice" to the words: "dead binary." We also ask to modify: "It is the most exposed country", with "it is a very exposed country", where, in the penultimate premise, we read: Italy is doubly concerned. First of all, because it is the most exposed country. With regard to commitments, the opinion is in favour of the first; in favour of the second until active participation, it is against the third.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u99	Thank you, Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u100	Let us continue with the explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u103	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Government representative, I have thought of starting my speech from resolutions previously adopted: a resolution signed by Zanda, Schifani, Zeller of 14 October 2015; a resolution by Zanda, Schifani, Zeller of 16 March 2016; today another resolution with two thirds of the names absolutely identical and probably with the effectiveness that have already developed the previous resolutions. The government cannot come to this House, once again, simply to say the intentions that animate it. Senator Centinario recalled this: we are at a thousand days of government but, above all, we are now at dozens of debates and commitments undertaken by this Government in relation to the issues outlined by the Undersecretary Gozi. The intervention of the Government cannot be excluded, in Parliament and in Parliament, from the data relating to the results in relation to previous commitments. There can be no government that pursues future commitments without ever having to take into account, even from a moral point of view, the state of progress in relation to the work programme it had given itself. What do you want to say to those majority parliamentarians who voted in favour of the previous Zanda, Schifani, Zeller, today Zanda, Bianconi, Zeller motions? What do you mean by your favourable opinion? At that majority vote? I also put aside the role that we could play today of the easy Cassandre, when we told you that the way out of those problems were others, urging you to make different commitments, but with respect to your commitments, your votes, your government action. But what are you saying today? What other vote do you ask of your majority, without even distorting the critical aspects? The truth is one, and you should have had the courage to declare it today in the two branches of Parliament. We need to regain prestige and credibility in Europe. From this point of view, the Renzi Government has made us take huge steps backwards. The laughter of Sarkozy and Merkel have turned into a desire not to speak to the Italian Government, not to invite it to the places where it is decided. You called today, Mr Undersecretary, in your initial speech, to discuss and give indications of the European Union's multi-annual budget. But it is a budget where you do not exercise even the minimum of moral suasion and pressure. Other than using the right of veto for Italy! You take note of decisions taken at the German Chancellery; you take note of decisions taken at the German Chancellery and just shared with France and then come to negotiate, with respect to the budget of the European Community, only what interests you from the propagandistic point of view at internal level: the possibility of further debt to the Italian State in order to be able to make the electoral campaigns that unfortunately are in progress. But do you see how much this December 4th referendum is costing us? Do you see how much time lost, how much work to do for Italy that is instead hijacked, with all the energies of the Government? We see you all around, Ministers, Undersecretaries, more or less party leaders, all thrown around only for one thing, the mother of all battles: the constitutional referendum. You do not care about the multiannual budget of the European Community. You do not care about the exercise of the budget and the law of national stability and above all you do not care about a fact, dear Undersecretary Gozi: today you have the moral responsibility for an additional 140,000 landings on the European coasts. You take on moral responsibility today, on behalf of the Government, for the total and absolute failure of immigration policies. It is a total failure and you do not have a single point to bring to your advantage, if it is true that another 3,500 have died in the Mediterranean Sea. Connect Cociancich, it is not a problem of different sensitivity. I, who belong to the European People's Party, feel the sensitivity and responsibility that you call them all; but populism takes on negative meanings only when they are exasperations of feelings that are not shared on a social level. When, on the other hand, one makes a flag with respect to a malaise, a discomfort, a pain that is constantly experienced by people, this is not populism, Mr Cociancich, but it is wanting to react and want to be indignant about problems that cannot be dealt with by resolutions that remain on paper and that have no response. And what about the commitments of previous European Councils with respect to the productive populations? We are still waiting for Gozi to tell us about the delay in dealing with the European treaties on trade in the Mediterranean. What do you still have to say about the many resolutions that have been adopted? I would like to draw the attention of my colleagues in the majority: to be a majority does not just mean to be obedient, but also to have the strength to pass on their ideas. You yourself, who have repeatedly spoken out against unfair competition from the economic treaties, today tell us that the Treaty with Canada, which is also under the European Court of Justice, becomes a new frontier. But rather do some checks with respect to our production associations and with respect to our worlds. You, Undersecretary Gozi, are concerned about young British people. But look at the sensitivity of Mr Gozi, who said that we must meet the young British people - heard, heard - who voted against the UK's exit from the European Union. But worry about young Italians instead. Be concerned about those many young people who are leaving our country to reach America or Australia. Be concerned about those who haven't even had the chance to say I like it or I don't like it, but they were forced by the needs of work to leave our country! What have you done for these young people? What did you put on the table in Europe? The great Juncker plan. Did you report to the Government in the Assembly on the state of implementation of the Juncker plan? You filled your mouth by saying that it was an immediate response to promote production capacity and the ability to create jobs. Have you checked the state of implementation and the impact of the beneficial effects on employment and economic development? Zero. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I should like to conclude by saying that it is not a matter of parties. It is not because you are from the Democratic Party or NCD or any other majority party that you are subject to attack or deep criticism. You are the object of our disapproval and of our opposition because you are absolutely ineffective and - I am sorry, Madam President, for the term I am about to use - useless in relation to the solution of Italy. You are absolutely inadequate, not because of an ideological fact, of opposition, but because, compared to what you promise in the various motions for resolutions, you cannot bring any results. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u106	AMORUSO (AL-A). Madam President, I see that fortunately we have solved the problem of the motion for a resolution which did not appear in the proceedings and the Undersecretary has thus immediately been able to express its opinion. We agree with your demands and, therefore, for us the motion for a resolution can be corrected with the amendments proposed by the Undersecretary. As far as the general speech is concerned, I think that the European Council that we are preparing to take on a very likely interlocutory character, also for the type of issues that it deals with. Among these are some who have an immediate character, such as immigration, but there are others who are more projected towards the future and who, as a result, need a different assessment. This does not mean, however, that, in the face of this situation, I think that the core of the debate is the strong commitment that the Government has spoken of to get the European Union out of the status quo. Unfortunately, today we have to see an attitude on the part of the European Union that slows down the issues that need to be addressed. For example, on the issue of immigration we have to see a serious delay on the part of the European Union and Italy has done well to move the waters. Not for nothing, just today and in these days, through - for example - the visit to some countries of Africa by leaders of other European countries, is reaffirming the usefulness of a policy of attention to those countries and to their needs, which Italy had already emphasized in recent months with the project of the migration compact, which rightly looks to the economic needs of those countries, to the needs to stabilize their governments and to the possibility of addressing the problem of immigration both with regard to the Countries in departure, and with regard to the Countries in transit. All this must necessarily be done through a series of agreements, including bilateral ones - as has been the case in recent days between Egypt, Greece and Cyprus - in order to address the problems of transit and immigration, which unfortunately today take on numbers of historic tragedy. If, in fact, we look at what is happening in our Mediterranean Sea, we see that the exodus is unfortunately accompanied by a very high number of human losses, which affect many times women and children. Clearly we cannot remain insensitive, as Europe cannot remain insensitive through a policy of inattention and disrespect for the presuppositions of our being together, including that of taking responsibility for this epochal problem together. Then let the new European Coast Guard come and replace Frontex's experience. Let us hope that this new experience will bring positive results to fruition immediately. We do not look at solutions such as the erection of walls that certainly do not serve to address the problem, if anything to aggravate it when everyone closes in a condition of isolation and detachment from a problem, thus making it even more serious because then it falls on the countries of first welcome such as Italy, Greece or Turkey that they often have to find themselves to face it. In this regard, it is sufficient to recall the visit to Italy a few days ago by UN Secretary Ban Ki-moon, who strongly reiterated that Italy cannot be left alone in this context and in the face of this problem. That is the need for a revision of the Dublin Rules of Procedure, as the Under-Secretary has pointed out. And then there is the delay that we have in this case too in terms of relocation, because it seems that up to now only 3% of asylum seekers are the percentage that has been allocated. Consequently, in the face of these realities and responsibilities, in the face of Europe's lack of will to give a strong impetus, a useful impetus to its policies, we are faced with often negative regurgitations in many countries of the European Union, or even of the whole world. Therefore, after the failure of the Bratislava Council, we hope that from the next meeting of the European Council, which will take place in these days, a new impetus will come, a different impetus, and that important issues such as Brexit will also be addressed in the face of which, as has rightly been said, Europe cannot and must not stand still. We are not waiting for Godot, we must be operational and we must fully understand what the real intentions of the United Kingdom are, otherwise everyone assumes their responsibilities. As far as immigration is concerned, we have said that we need a policy of revising the international treaties, a policy of supporting the countries of origin of immigration and transit, bilateral agreements to stop this unworthy trade, looking at the differences between refugees and illegal immigrants for economic reasons. These are important aspects that must be highlighted, kept in mind and evaluated in their reality. As far as trade is concerned, the Undersecretary has asked us to expunge a sentence from our agenda. We do so gladly, but that does not mean anything because having wanted an agreement by France and Germany which must be authorized by all the national parliaments today, given the complexity of European reality, leads to a dead track. Madam President, I should like to conclude with a reference - as has been done by other Members and as we have pointed out on the agenda - to the reports of an intelligent policy towards Russia. It is these days the drama of Syria and the issue of relations between Russia and America on Syria, but for Italy Russia is an indispensable partner for various factors: firstly for the fight against terrorism and, secondly, for the commercial and economic aspect which essentially, and perhaps mainly, concerns Italy. We are convinced that with the impetus given, and that the Government wants to give, to this European Council, we will be able to look to Rome 2017 thinking of the young people and of the collaboration that we offer to the Government in order to have a truly strong and truly united Europe. [[Applause from the AL-A Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u109	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Gozi, the Undersecretary who, in his reply, expressed the Government's willingness to address, in view of President Renzi's forthcoming trip to the USA, the case of Chico Forti. As I have already said in this debate, without Europe, the world is less stable and safer. Without Europe, each country becomes weaker and more fragile, unable to measure itself with the complexity of our world. Europe must stop the race for demolition, the result of national selfishness, in order to return to being the place of hope, the point of reference for the generations of the future. What the Government has put, also with reference to the objectives of the Budgetary Document, is part of the proposals and active policies of support of the economy that require a structural change of the overall European framework of reference also for the national budgetary choices: to support growth and development as the only structural and global framework that can make compatible and sustainable the objectives of public finance in compliance with the framework of compatibility, in reference to which our Country has not requested any derogation. Not to understand, in Italy and in Europe, how in a period of financial and economic recession of absolute gravity there are no alternative options to a revision of the mechanisms and objectives of government of public finance, in order to avoid a vision of fiscal policies that could have distorting consequences rather than favoring the respect of the objectives of structural balance, is to question the very survival of the European institutions and to increase the closing policies that already determine, and even more can produce, a significant reduction of the European ability to be unitary and competitive subject able to assert - as is reported in the majority resolution that we have signed and that we support - a new European governance. Undersecretary Gozi says well when he says that the Stability Pact is either applied intelligently or simply stupid. Also for this, I hope a intervention of the Government in order to resolve the matter of the budgetary surplus of the Autonomous Province of Trento, to which I have mentioned in general discussion. With this last wish I announce that the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE will vote in favour of Resolution No 3 by majority, first signed by Zanda and also signed by President Zeller on behalf of our Group. It is a very precise and articulated resolution that addresses all the issues on the table, but above all the economic and ideal crisis of the European Union, in order to revive the initial intuition and tackle seriously and decisively the problem of immigration, the five compacts with priority African countries, control of flows, relations with Russia, with China and the United States, the revision of the TTIP, the Ukrainian crisis and Brexit. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u112	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I had already predicted yesterday, after the announcement that President Renzi would only go to the House, that we would have seen two very different debates. My prediction has come true on time, so we found ourselves in the House with the usual shots of President Renzi, who are all for use and internal consumption. In fact, it is useful to invent against the stepmother Europe, even in this case, to caress those populisms of which I will then speak, always for the purposes of the referendum campaign in favour of the "yes". Here, on the other hand, undersecretary Gozi has tried to make a report that would go into the substance of the issues before us at the European Council. This situation is frankly embarrassing. I say this with great tranquility: is this a way of preparing for the Council as a serious country? I think that this is not the case in any of the other countries of the European Union, and frankly it is part of the same way that has accompanied the whole of Bratislava. This is so true that the other European partners have asked us to know that Italy had signed, but outside President Renzi has thought well, to the use and consumption of those who want to believe us, to make the scenes against. The issues before us at the European Council also deserved - in my opinion - a very detailed debate, which was partly done here in the Senate today. There are, however, some issues on which I must respond very calmly and clearly to the Secretary's reply. You tell us that we should all be grateful for the possibility of further flexibility. Mr Undersecretary, we can do as my colleague asked in his explanation of vote, going to check all the previous resolutions in all the very long and various appointments of the last two or three years. One of the issues that you will certainly find, and which we have always questioned, concerns Europe's austerity policies. We have always said, Mr Undersecretary, that that was not the way to get us out of the crisis and that has happened on time. So the rigidity was an impediment to the development of our country. Those few flexibilitys, invoked and some granted, how did we use them? That's the point. I think that your Government has not used them to invest in development and growth policies, in an investment plan, and that is a couple of criticisms that my colleague has rightly made of Commissioner Moscovici's position, who even says: Yes, I support you, I give you flexibility, but not to say that an investment plan is being made, it invests with resources in a structural way to accompany growth; today we will present our social compact, for example, with a series of proposals. No, it says: I can open up to you on flexibility because I have to support you in the referendum campaign. He didn't say that explicitly. Perhaps you could tell him to think about the populisms of his house, which seem very serious to me and I believe will cost him the government. As far as immigration is concerned, Mr Undersecretary, have you seen what the Commission's proposal for the Dublin III fake revision is? How, then, can you ask us to remove the part of the motion for a resolution in which we ask you to vote against and fight against that Commission proposal? That Dublin III proposal fully and completely confirms the question raised, on which we all unanimously said that we had to ask for and demand a change. The same can be said with regard to the reallocation plan. From this point of view we must say the things as they are and not make the scenes; we must be serious and do our battles. Same issue, and I'm really closing, as far as TTIP and CETA are concerned. You must tell us what is going on once and for all: other countries want to suspend the negotiations, while we continue to move forward. In view of the tremendous impact of these two treaties, because there are calculations on employment, on the jobs we will lose and on our businesses. I believe that a serious country, which really thinks about its own interests, should suspend negotiations both with Canada and with regard to TTIP. That is why we cannot accept your proposals for reformulation. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u115	Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I have to say that I am a little disoriented, because I was not ready to intervene on constitutional reform or on the lack of cancer drugs. But since I am very interested in this, I hope that there will be other opportunities to be able to talk about it in depth and find solutions, because these are extremely sensitive issues. Madam President, allow me first of all to thank Mr Gozi. You, Mr. Undersecretary, do a job for the most unknown, secret and underground, but very valuable. We know that, and we want to give him credit for it. You have a very high knowledge and esteem in Europe, and we are very pleased with that. I would like to say a few words to say that we approve of the report by Mr Gozi and we have firmly signed the motion for a resolution that we are about to vote on. It is obvious that Europe is an essential point for us in our work and our attention. In international geopolitics - I am referring in particular to the United States (where we do not know what will happen) and the axis between Russia, Turkey and Arab countries - Europe must strengthen, or it will really be a problem. Similarly, Europe must become increasingly aware of immigration issues. It is true that it is - I dare say - a planetary immigration, but we are at the heart of all this problem, which we must govern with the help of all. The President-in-Office of the Council has done well to say that Europe should issue sanctions for those who do not welcome immigrants, especially when there are commitments made and signed. We know that Europe has a difficult job ahead of it, but either it recovers a solidarity, economic and defence soul, or it will not be Europe. We are still anchored in the history of the ideal Europe, to which we would like to turn, strengthen it and make a critical mass. I think if we don't do it now, populism and selfishness will crush it. Undersecretary Gozi, you regularly attend meetings that are extremely difficult, complex and articulated. We know that there are different sensitivities in Europe, but we are convinced here that we support you because you are on the right track. Keep working like this. The People's Area Group will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled. Madam President, I ask for permission to deliver the written text of my speech. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u116	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u119	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, I welcome the fact that our motion has not been welcomed by the Government, perhaps because we have spoken very clearly and precisely. I am referring in particular to the issue of foreign trade, which concerns CETA and TTIP, two treaties that have been the subject of great work for us (I remember that there is also an assigned deal that should be concluded). This is demonstrated by the citizens who have taken part in so many and very large events in Europe. I believe that Europe should take responsibility for what the citizens want, which perhaps are more forward-looking than their rulers. I would like to stress another point. I believe that certain sentences should be read in full. The European Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs says that there is a populist threat in Italy and that is why they will allow greater flexibility. It is not said that the increase in flexibility is granted because Dr. Renzi governed in an exemplary way and is lifting Italy. President Renzi, on the contrary, is sinking Italy. So let us be clear. And we, in our motion, have been particularly clear. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u122	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, as a Leader of one of the opposition parties, I have accepted responsibly the principle of alternation with regard to the presence of the President of the Council in the two branches of Parliament. Therefore, in the course of this explanation of vote I will take into account both the things said by Mr Gozi, and - indeed, especially (he will forgive me the Undersecretary) - the report made by the President of the Council to the Chamber of Deputies. The President-in-Office of the Council mentioned a sentence, which I agree with, but does not refer to his speech: he said that Europe is a sum of summaries. Each European meeting is nothing more than a summary of previous summaries. I think that this definition fits well with the arguments made in this House, but above all with the reasoning that the President-in-Office of the Council has made in the House. Renzi quoted this morning the German philosopher Jürgen Habermas, who I think few in this House and in the House have read, who defined the European Union's response to the Syrian crisis - President, you have read and honored him - characterized by frantic immobilism. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He has little faith in our colleagues. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). I'm glad you know him. The Syrian crisis is one of the most complicated in recent decades. I have never heard a representative of the Italian Government speak with thoroughness and knowledge of the Syrian crisis. I have never heard of the Syrian Human Rights Observatory and I have never heard of it in terms of this observatory: it is a gentleman who has lived in Coventry for about eighteen years and works in his wife's clothing store and who knows nothing about what is happening in Syria. However, it is the most accurate and timely source of information for all Western agencies and media on the Syrian crisis. I have never heard Minister Gentiloni or Council President Renzi talk about the phenomenon of white helmets, which some would like to lead to the Nobel Prize. But if you go on the Internet to see the photos of these protagonists, you will notice that many of them have weapons in their hands and engage in the so-called rebellion against the government of Assad. No one has ever posed the problem of who exactly the Syrian rebels are. Are those of al-Nusra, camouflaged with another acronym, or are they really rebels who have as their natural vocation the establishment of a democratic regime? And so, when it comes to summa of the summaries or generality of the European Union's response, I am also referring quietly to the position of the Italian Government. But it is on European policy as a whole that I see a frightful shortcoming and a frightful lack. We watched Ventotene's scene: Renzi managed to bring on the ship Garibaldi Hollande and Merkel - the latter notoriously suffers from the sea and, therefore, did not come willingly - and after we attended a personal meeting of the President of the Council Renzi in the headquarters of Ferrari. After that we realized how much Italy is excluded from the command posts of Europe, because in the meantime Chancellor Merkel asked the states of the so-called Visegrád Group to hold a meeting in Austria and not in Lithuania on immigration policies, and Italy was not invited. The countries of the Visegrád Group reject the relocation of migrants. Chancellor Merkel in these days, since the Ukrainian problem will be the subject of the next European Council, has summoned the Normandy format, from which we are notoriously excluded, and has asked the countries represented here to decide something about Ukraine. But Germany also has other problems: it has not only to represent the hegemonic and dominant country in Europe; it has a trade surplus that we never talk about; it has banks like Deutsche Bank, which has about 52,000 billion derivatives, which are a time bomb in the European economic system. Undersecretary Gozi, I also have a question to ask. They tell me - as Minister Schäuble said in a private forum - that on the ship Garibaldi there was talk of Libya, but we could also talk about Europe. Chancellor Merkel has arrived - I would like to be denied and I am ready to be so, in the interest of my country - with a dossier of about 400 pages, summarized in a 20-page easy-to-read "bignami" with which Germany on that occasion, on the ship Garibaldi and in our territorial waters, was planning to talk to the Italian Government about the future of Europe. How to change Europe, how to get to that famous 60th antennae of the Treaties of Rome in March of next year? Talking and starting to talk. I have the impression - I have been told - that this has not been talked about, that Italy in that Chamber has made a change of shape and that the President of the Council has not guaranteed our country that role that it could have guaranteed there. I would like to know the truth, because everything that happened after seems to denote the lack of discussion, deepening and confrontation that could have taken place there. However, I am ready to be denied; I say this in the interests of my country. As far as immigration is concerned, I am pleased that the Undersecretary has accepted points 3 and 10, with a few minor changes, but leaving the substance unchanged the meaning of what we have written. On immigration, you have legitimately been concerned about relocation, but that is not the only concern. As mentioned above, the Visegrad Group refuses to be relocated as part of the division of those who have already entered. The President of the Council, Renzi, recalled this morning that Germany has already accepted 1,100,000 refugees, in this case, because they are not economic immigrants. However, we have a problem: we must stop immigration; and on this point there is never a word. There is always the problem of the after, there is never the problem of the first. We sometimes, some days, we go to get an Italian municipality of 6,000 inhabitants who come from Africa to relocate it to a place that I imagine is on our territory [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] and we never go to prevent this from happening. Let's go pick up dinghys that are locked in a hangar, in a warehouse that we know exactly where it is, on the Libyan coasts, without intervening and having the ability and the strength to do so, because we are still present in Libya to a sufficient extent to do this type of intervention. And yet, let us not even move on to stage 2 of EUNAVFOR Med. We do not even have the desire, the courage, the political decision to enter the Libyan waters; and then - I do not say that the Australian model is the one to be activated - they do not put themselves in the possibility to block no longer the boats, because now they are rafts, which have a autonomy of 10-12 miles. European ships arrive, take them, board them and bring them to us on the Italian coast. Then there is another problem: the circular that the Ministry of the Interior sent. I am told by security professionals that security operators are being urged to do so in the few hotspots that have been built to decline fingerprints. But it is an exhortation, it is not an obligation; and the policeman, in your opinion, is now in a position to force someone who does not want to leave their fingerprints? 13:28) (Romans Paul followed). What is the solution? Many do not leave them, many are not identified and many of them, perhaps, are among those who should not enter Italy for reasons of public order. This point is focal, it is very important for our country; but we have not had any information on it today. I was struck by a passage this morning from the speech by the President of the Council in which he spoke about the United States. He says that we are on the side of the United States in the vision of the world because we are thinking about the values of freedom and the fight against fear and a catastrophic vision of the future that is incapable of giving democracy a role for tomorrow too; that this kind of gaze on the world is a gaze that we share deeply. What do you mean, Undersecretary Gozi? Are we on the side of the United States even when they're wrong? Are we sure that we must always stand on the side of the United States even when they make macroscopic mistakes? Even when they give anti-tank weapons and missiles to the Syrian rebels that rebels are not, but are they terrorists, who want to bring to Syria a regime that has nothing to do with democracy? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Are we sure the United States is always right? Did you listen to the debate between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton? Did you hear what the two candidates said? Have you been aware of the cultural and cognitive inadequacy that the candidates for the United States Presidency also have in relation to problems that we should know better? So before I say that we are without if and without but on the side of the United States, of the world's gendarme, I would use some caution. I shall conclude, Mr President, with a historical note. Exactly sixty-six years ago, on October 12, 1960, Nikita Kruscev, to contradict an unknown Filipino speaker, such Lorenzo Sumulong, took a shoe, or his or the Soviet Foreign Minister of that time, Gromyko, and slammed it on the stand of the United Nations. Well, I think that Kruschev of historical merits also had them because in February 1956, at the XX Congress of the PCUS, we were lucky to remove Stalinism and inaugurated a new season of Soviet communism. He certainly did not bring democracy: he thought about it a few years later, partially, Gorbachev, and he certainly did not think about it Kruschev, but he had an extraordinary historical merit. I think that the President-in-Office of the Council can also beat a shoe in Europe, given that the waste of militant communism does not belong to him and has produced an evolution and a cultural revolution in his party. I know you're a friend of many shoemakers, but if you want, we can lend you one too. So, dear President, beat a shoe in Europe, to contradict and counter the German boots. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u125	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for his illustration, which I found very timely and interesting, on the agenda. As you have then seen, the agenda is apparently another and, therefore, you can really say anything and give wide space to the imagination. I believe that, if there is one point on which our country has demonstrated, in the last fifteen years, substantial coherence, it is foreign policy. We have maintained a line of coherence on foreign policy. I say this to Senator Romani, who has done a very learned and, in some respects, also very intriguing, especially in the secret aspects of his revelations. Our foreign policy has been multilateral, always Atlantic and has always looked at the United States of America, both when they were wrong and when they were doing it right. We were with the United States of America when they first invaded Iraq and when they invaded it for the second time. We were with them when they attacked Afghanistan and in a sequence of other circumstances, which were certainly not far-sighted. Sometimes it is known that you are on the side that is more appropriate to our interests, to our values, to our way of seeing things, to our idea of democracy and also of political confrontation. Well, Europe is now in a deep crisis. It is not a crisis - as is often said - of a predominantly economic nature, but I fear that it is a profound crisis of those values that Senator Cociancich recalled as the founding values of Europe, which are values of solidarity, democracy, social state and integration, that is, those positive values that have made the great European Continent, for economic and democratic status, a possible world paradigm. However, this Europe is in crisis: it is a crisis of selfishness, fear and psychological dependence, which is constantly manifesting itself in the face of the globalization of markets, the new, openness and technology. There is an ageing of consciences rather than populations, there is an ageing of European culture more than the ageing of the population. There is the aging of a culture that has remained perched at a time when one was trying to be with one power or another, and this debate also shows it. Since the opposing powers are lacking, then, if we stand in opposition, we must stand with the power that stands against the power with which the majority stands. It's a game of the parties that was good in the Cold War, and now it's only gonna hurt us. AIROLA (M5S). Let's get out of NATO! Sangalli (PD). We are now leaving NATO: this too is a refrain that we have heard for a long time, at another stage in our history. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please don't make dialogues. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] Don't interrupt Senator Sangalli, please. Sangalli (PD). I must say that I find Senator Airola always very nice in his reactions and I gladly listen to him because I have a real sympathy for him. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. One cannot, however, interrupt a senator when he speaks and has the power to speak. Sangalli (PD). From a general point of view, what we are facing with this European Council is a situation of Europe's difficulties which focuses on three issues that the Continent is now facing and which have been well illustrated this morning by the Undersecretary and also by the President of the Council of Ministers in the House. I am referring first of all to the issue of migration, which we did not invent; we did not look for it to talk about anything else or to talk about the referendum. Migration is a major issue that concerns the whole Western world and is advanced compared to the fact that there is a strong destabilisation and that stabilization policies struggle to assert themselves and, at the same time, there is a strong gap between very strong economic conditions in a world that grows economically and very weak economic conditions in a world that becomes economically poorer and poorer. Migration is important to us and it is important for Europe to give impetus to relations with Africa and to the development of its broad-based partnership with African countries based on compacts, allowing the structural management of migration flows and not just increasing returns, and the loss of all credibility of these policies. The proposal we are discussing at the European Council talks about the European Border and Coast Guard. It is a step forward in our policy of protecting against dangerous migration, in our policy of managing migration flows. AIROLA (M5S). Mineo's CARA? Remember that. Alfano and Castiglione are with you! CARDINALI (PD). Shut up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't interrupt. Ask for the floor and he will speak when his turn comes. AIROLA (M5S). What rules do we have to respect? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, I no longer allow any interruptions. Sangalli (PD). Putting the European Border and Coast Guard on the ground is a concrete act. I am so sorry because the stories that are being told put in the background the great nobility of our country and the Mediterranean countries such as Greece. I am referring to the fact that we have put first of all the saving of human lives, the saving of the weakest part of the world that is trying to come to us. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Either we are on these issues or we can tell ourselves that Mineo's CARA does not work, that the reception points could do them better. [[Senator Airola's comments. Lively protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u126	Senator Airola, I'm calling you back to order. AIROLA (M5S). Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's record the call to order. I'm begging the quaestors to intervene. AIROLA (M5S). You're stealing! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Next time we move on to the expulsion and do not vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u127	Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the commitments made by the Member States... [[Senator Airola's comments.]] Now let me talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u128	Senator Sangalli, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u129	Sangalli (PD). Recalling the fulfilment of the Member States' commitments on relocations, reaffirming the need for European action on return and providing for a reference to the reform of the Dublin system, as we are going to do at the European summit, are points that put in place a responsibility, ours but also a collective responsibility of Europe. You can talk about something else when you don't know the subject you're talking about, but you can't joke about these matters by making internal and internal propaganda. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I fear that all of these are comments in preparation for the third subject that I must address, which is that of our relations with Russia, because I see everyone very effervescent in this regard. The second issue is economic growth. This Europe is in crisis because the policies it is making are not aimed at growth, they are not aimed at the implementation of employment, neither investment and industry, and that is exactly what Juncker has supported together with the Italian Government. The issues on which it would be important for the European Council to reiterate the need for concrete progress are internal investment (the so-called Juncker 2.0 plan), the fight against youth unemployment and the completion of the single market. The market, in fact, tends to be no longer unique and tends to create borders for migrants who become frontiers for goods and trade. And all this sets in motion a mechanism that brings us back a hundred years, as perhaps the political culture of so many here. It takes us back a hundred years and makes us recognize the war winds of 1914: it is a mechanism of borders and fences, but it is a dangerous mechanism for peace as well as for the economy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We also need to move forward on international trade, as has been said in the reports. On international trade - for example - we want Europe to be protected from the Chinese market, and it is said that China must respect, in exchange, the WTO rules, the rules of the trade market. We need to know that the WTO is in a significant phase of crisis and that this crisis is a problem especially for countries like ours, which must be protected by supranational structures. [[Senator Martelli's comments.]] To go to the confrontation and conclude the negotiation with Canada, as well as to move forward with the agreements on free trade with Japan, and then with TTIP and with Atlantic politics, is a duty that we have towards our companies, first of all, towards our country and towards our economy. Otherwise, we are talking about unfamiliar companies, about markets that we do not know what they are and about issues that, frankly, should be dealt with in other ways. I come to the last question, which is at the heart of this summit, and it is the issue of Russia in relation to the Syrian crisis, in relation to the fact that the agreement with the United States of America has been broken and that Italy has always been for a reasonable negotiating position and mediation through the United Nations. I would like to recall, among the various intelligent things said by Senator Romani, that there was a small accident on the road to Aleppo: a United Nations convoy with 24 trucks of aid was bombarded by Assad's batteries, with the hybrid support of Russia. I want to remind you that the truce has been interrupted by that side and I want to say that the Syrian issue is about peace throughout the world and the whole board, in which very complicated interests are played, much more complicated than those who would like to resolve by putting opposing sides in the field. We should make Europe stand firm with Russia and, at the same time, make it respect the Treaty of Minsk and review its position vis-à-vis Ukraine and other countries and try to bring it back to the western powers. Russia, which could indeed destabilise the world, is the very risky one in this situation. He risks because he destabilizes his relationship with all Sunni Muslims and risks because he comes out of a table where he had again played a role of great power. Those who look at multilateralism must know that Russia is a fundamental pawn of multilateralism, they must know that we must try to get out of the situation of sanctions by gradually bringing Russia to a political confrontation. This must be done above all by the European Union, helping the United States of America in this action. The issues that are under discussion at the European Council, dear Undersecretary, are important. I do not know how the debate in the House went, and I do not know whether, instead of these issues, there has been more talk, although I hope it has been said about them. However, the majority of these issues have been discussed in this Senate Chamber and, as far as the Democratic Party is concerned, our Government goes to the European Council with the support of its majority and with the determination (without using shoes, but using intelligence, as it is best to do) to make Europe return to be what its fundamental values had decided should be. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u130	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 2. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 2, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 3. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senators Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 4. Senator Compañera, do you accept the reformulation proposed by the representative of the Government? Comrade (CoR). Yes, Mr President, I welcome it. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 4 (text 2), tabled by Senator Compagna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 5. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Bertorotta and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 5 at the same time. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 6. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator De Petris and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 6 at the same time. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 7. The Government representative gave a favourable opinion on this motion for a resolution, subject to some rewordings. Senator Romani, do you welcome them?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u131	Mr President, we accept the rewordings proposed by the Undersecretary, except that of the penultimate commitment, in point 2). We therefore call for a separate vote, first the parties on which there is agreement and then the part on which there is disagreement. We therefore call for a vote to be taken on the entire motion for a resolution, which has been reworded in accordance with the Secretary's instructions, until the last page excluding paragraph 2 of paragraph 3 and a vote on point 2 of the second commitment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u132	I put to the vote the proposal for a split vote, just made by Senator Romani Paolo. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on point 2 of paragraph 3 of the motion for a resolution No 7 (text 2). MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of paragraph 2 of paragraph 3 of the motion for a resolution No 7 (text 2), tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises and paragraphs 1, 2, 3 (1) and 4 of the motion for a resolution No 7 (text 2), tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to motion for a resolution No 8, on which the representative of the Government gave a favourable opinion following the adoption of some rewordings. Senator Barani, do you accept the reformulations? Mr Barani (AL-A). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 8 (text 2). MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 8 (text 2), tabled by Senator Barani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-698.ana.u133	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will return to meet in public today, at 4.30 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13:53 a.m.
