ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 10 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.32).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has not concluded the examination of draft law No 2551 ratifying the Italy-France agreement on the new Turin-Lyon railway line. We shall therefore proceed to the examination of the subsequent draft legislation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2310, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Compagna, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u6	Madam President, the draft law before us has already been approved by the House and concerns an agreement between Italy and the Principality of Monaco on the exchange of information in tax matters. The text follows the model drawn up by the OECD in the framework of the initiatives for fiscal transparency and is fully in line with the guidelines put forward by Italy in the various multilateral fora for the strengthening of instruments to combat the phenomenon of international tax evasion. The purpose of the agreement, like others discussed here, is to promote cooperation between the administrations of the two Parties through an exchange of information ensuring adequate levels of transparency. The annexed Protocol also allows for equivalent effects to those provided for in the OECD model of double taxation conventions. The text fully meets the requirements of the recent Italian legislation on the return of capital, allowing Italian taxpayers with financial resources in Montecarlo to benefit from easier regularisation. Composed of 14 articles and a Protocol, the Agreement defines first of all the taxes subject to the possible exchange of information, that is for Italy, IRPEF, IRES, IRAP, tax on inheritances, that on donations and substitute taxes. The modalities of the exchange of information are regulated, regulating in detail the types of information that may be required. Bank secrecy is also expected to be exceeded, in accordance with OECD standards in this area. Articles 6 and 7, which govern tax checks in their respective territories, also allow to describe the assumptions in which it is possible for one of the Parties to evade the request for information. It is also important to Article 12, which contains provisions to eliminate cases of double taxation, in particular by providing for the application of the tax credit according to the standard wording used generally by Italy and by regulating cases of double tax residence. The draft ratification law consists of three articles authorising ratification, order of execution and entry into force. The text does not involve expenditure and will not result in less revenue. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] The Commission has not identified any incompatibility with national legislation or with Community law and, indeed, considers that the text represents a completion of the international obligations already assumed by our country in the field of administrative cooperation and the fight against international tax evasion. Hence the Commission's proposal to the House for an early approval of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u7	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u8	Madam President, to be quick, I believe that Senator Compagna's report has already illustrated the content of this bill, which consists of only three articles. The fundamental aim is precisely the fight against tax evasion, as international obligations impose on us. I believe that enough time has already been wasted to question the document further to our examination, so I will announce, as I will then do again in the explanation of vote, the favourable direction of our Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u9	The general debate is closed. I put to the vote Rule 1. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Colleagues, awaiting the expiry of twenty minutes from the notice referred to in Rule 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 16.39 p.m. and resumed at 4.52 p.m.) The session is resumed. I put to the vote Rule 2. [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]] Colleagues, the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure was cancelled because the sitting was suspended. If you want, you have to make the request again. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] Verification of DIVINA (LN-Aut) quorum. We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Therefore, electronic voting is not required. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of discussion of draft law No 2310 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote Rule 2. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u12	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I have to make a point. When the electronic vote is requested and the sitting is suspended pending notice, work is resumed by carrying out the electronic vote, without the need for a new request, unlike what you have just done. I ask that what I am saying be put on the record, because the Rules of Procedure are different from what you, Madam President, have done. I would also ask that the vote be taken by electronic ballot for this article.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u13	For the Minutes, it is clear that, having stated that I was wrong to proceed to the vote, it was also intended to cancel the verification of the support for the request for an electronic vote, because we could not proceed to the vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u16	Stitches (LN-Aut). Madam President, the Group of the North Legacy wishes to express its support for this measure and, for the economy of our work, I would ask the Presidency to give the full text of my speech, so that it can be annexed to today's report. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u17	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u20	AMORUSO (AL-A). Madam President, on behalf of the AL-A Group, I am voting in favour of this measure, which, as the rapporteur said, is developed on the model set up by the OECD and serves to strengthen the instruments to combat the phenomenon of international tax evasion through a greater exchange of information aimed at ensuring levels of transparency. That is why our vote will be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u23	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, I am voting in favour of the 5 Star Movement Group's draft law on our examination.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u26	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, I am voting in favour of the Group of the Party of European Socialists' motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u29	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u30	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u31	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2322, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Lucidi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law concerns cooperation in the field of culture and education between Italy and the Czech Republic. First of all, I would like to stress that this text is a parliamentary initiative, even if it reproduces a draft law of government initiative which had been presented in the last parliamentary term without ever being discussed. The agreement replaces previous bilateral agreements and aims to provide an updated framework for cultural, scientific and technological cooperation between the Parties. The need for an update stems from the positive evolution of cultural and scientific exchanges between the two countries in recent years and above all from the considerable demand for Italian language and culture in the territory of the Czech Republic. Data on cultural exchange indicate a considerable increase in the number of inter-university agreements between Italian universities and Czech counterparts, reflecting the growing mutual interest at academic level. There are numerous activities throughout the Czech Republic to promote the Italian language and culture, starting with those promoted by the Italian Institute of Culture in Prague and by the "Dante Alighieri" (Dante Alighieri). The Italian language is also taught at seven Czech universities, while at secondary level the Italian-Cheese high school Ustavni, which has been active since 1991 a special bilingual section, and some other institutions, including the Sazavska language school, which, among the various foreign languages covered by its own courses, is expanding and diversifying its educational offer in the Italian language. Italian is also present at primary and secondary education level and at preschool level. The Agreement will promote and encourage initiatives, exchanges and collaborations in the cultural, scientific and technological fields through the organisation of conferences and the award of scholarships, also facilitating cooperation in the conservation and enhancement of the artistic and archaeological heritage, with particular regard to the fight against illicit transfers of cultural goods and the protection of intellectual property rights. The text consists of a preamble and 20 articles, which identify the aims and areas of cooperation, as well as the arrangements for the implementation of cooperation. Particular emphasis is placed on the provisions relating to the different areas of cooperation from cooperation between university institutions, through joint research and the mutual provision of scholarships in areas considered as priority by the Parties. The activities of the cultural institutions of one country are also promoted and facilitated within the cultural reality of the other and the development of common activities between its institutions and the cultural institutions of the host country is encouraged. Article 9 makes clear the commitment of the parties to combat illicit trafficking in cultural goods, including in compliance with the obligations arising from the UNESCO Convention on the subject. The Agreement also regulates the forms of scientific cooperation between the institutions, scientific research centres and universities of the two States through exchanges of scientific and technological documentation, exchanges of experience and visits by teachers, researchers and technicians. The text also establishes the mutual commitment of the Parties to protect intellectual property, copyright and related rights, in particular Article 14. The implementation of the agreement shall, as with other instruments of a similar nature, be returned to a Joint Committee, which shall operate through the preparation of multiannual executive programmes, which shall be responsible for supervising the proper implementation of those programmes and for the general development of cooperation. This aspect is governed, in particular, by Article 15. The draft ratification law consists of four articles. The costs resulting from the implementation of the measure are estimated at 33.840 euros for each of the years 2016 and 2017 and 37.740 euros annually from the year 2018 in respect of mission expenses, and 443,500 euros annually from the year 2016 for all other items of expenditure planned. The analysis of the compatibility of the intervention does not indicate any constitutional problems, nor does it conflict with the Community and international regulations to which Italy is bound. In conclusion, Madam President, it is proposed that the House approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u33	We welcome the students and teachers of the State Institute of Higher Education Leonardo Sinisgalli in Senise, in the province of Potenza, who are today visiting the Senate and attending our work. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u34	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u35	Madam President, I have to say that, in the face of a report such as that of Senator Lucidi, little remains to be added. He has clearly pointed out that in the 20 articles of the provision to our examination there is basically a rewriting of a previous Agreement. I would just like to point out that almost six years have passed since the signing of this Agreement and fortunately we are about to ratify it in a definite way. I would like to point out that the League has already voted in favour of the House of Deputies, with the speech by Mr Pini. For the rest, I reserve the right to speak later in an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u36	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u37	Madam President, I believe that the examination of this draft ratification law can be an opportunity for a rethink of our relations with the Czech Republic, which is part of the so-called Visegrad Group, made up of four states (Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland and Hungary) that oppose the distribution of migrants according to the quotas established by agreements which have been made in a binding manner for all states. I think this opportunity can be taken for a second thought. I am pleased that we are dealing, rightly, with the ratification of an old 2011 Agreement with the Czech Republic on cooperation in the fields of culture, science, education and technology. I would also like the issue of immigration to be added. I do not know whether today is an opportunity to give a political signal, with a vote of restraint on our relations with the Czech Republic. I have nothing against the bill that Mr Lucidi brilliantly outlined, but I believe it may be an opportunity to signal against the decision taken in September 2015 in a binding manner by the European Council on the allocation of quotas for migrants. These four states have not accepted any migrants and are putting the whole of Europe and in particular the two most affected states, us and Greece, in difficulty. I therefore propose this reflection to the attention of the House. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u38	The general debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u41	Stitches (LN-Aut). Madam President, as I have mentioned, the League has already voted in favour of the provision in the House of Deputies with the intervention of Mr Pini. I believe that it is also possible here to reiterate this approach by our Group and I would ask for permission to hand over the text of my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u44	AMORUSO (AL-A). Madam President, the vote of the AL-A Group will also be in favour. We particularly want this ratification, because it serves to revise a framework of rules and relations due to the fact that cultural exchange between the Czech Republic and Italy has increased recently, in particular with the request of the Czech Republic for schools where Italian is taught and meetings where Italy is spoken. Special attention to Italian archaeological heritage is a fact that makes us very honorable. I think that, precisely for this reason, we must today particularly stress the importance of ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u47	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Madam President, as Mr Lucidi explained, the draft law concerns cooperation in the field of culture and education between Italy and the Czech Republic. The Agreement will promote and encourage initiatives, exchanges and collaborations in the cultural, scientific and technological fields through the organisation of conferences and the award of scholarships, facilitating cooperation in the conservation and enhancement of the artistic and archaeological heritage and inhibiting illicit transfers of cultural goods. With this agreement, we support the launch of joint research and the mutual provision of scholarships in priority areas. The activities of the cultural institutions of one country are also promoted and facilitated within the cultural reality of the other and the development of common activities between its institutions and the cultural institutions of the host country is encouraged. The Agreement also regulates the forms of scientific cooperation between the institutions, scientific research centres and universities of the two States through exchanges of scientific and technological documentation, exchanges of experience and visits by teachers, researchers and technicians. In conclusion, the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour of this agreement.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u50	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, I am speaking briefly to announce the Democratic Party's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u53	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u54	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u55	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2470, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Pegorer, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u56	Madam President, the draft law before us, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies, brings the ratification of the decision of June 2014 of the Supervisory Council on amendments to Annex IV to the Convention establishing the Joint Organisation for Armament Cooperation (OCCAR). Established by an agreement signed in 1998 by Italy, France, Germany and the United Kingdom, the OCCAR is a permanent body for the joint management of weapons acquisition programmes. Belgium and Spain joined the original countries in 2003 and 2005 respectively. The number of member countries of the Organization has therefore risen to six, to which six other partners have to be added: Finland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Sweden, Poland and Turkey. The latter participate in individual programmes of the Organization, but are not officially part of its institutional structure. It is recalled that Article 39 of the Convention gives full legal personality to the Organisation, giving it the authority to enter into contracts, to acquire and dispose of movable and immovable property and to initiate legal proceedings. The OCCAR, which is based in Bonn, has its decision-making body in the Supervisory Board, composed of the six Ministers of Defence of the Member States or their delegates, who participate in it with the right to vote, and is chaired by a President elected by the Council from among its members. The decision-making body, which meets at least twice a year, shall exercise the direction and control of the executive administration and of all the committees which the Council itself establishes within it, and shall decide on all matters relating to the implementation of the Convention. The main objective of the OCCAR is to coordinate, monitor and implement the weapons programmes assigned to it by the Member States, and to coordinate and promote joint activities to be carried out in the future, thereby improving the effectiveness of the management of cooperation projects, in terms of cost, time and performance. Currently the OCCAR manages eleven programs of acquisition and development of military instruments, six of which see the participation Italian, among which the Logistic support ship for the realization of a naval task force aimed to assist the operations of relief, to provide medical support and to allow the transport of goods. The changes provided for in the decision before us relate to the decision-making procedures of the Monitoring Council. The Convention provides in general that all decisions shall be taken unanimously by the Member States, with the exception of those relating to the matters listed in Annex IV which are adopted in some cases by a reinforced qualified majority, in others by a majority of those entitled. I would also remind you that with regard to the deliberations of the Monitoring Council and the programme committees on cooperation plans to which not all the Member States of the organisation belong, the Convention provides for decisions to be taken only by representatives of the States participating in those programmes. Annex IV, paragraph l, currently provides that decisions concerning the admission of new Member States, the rules and regulations of the OCCAR, the organisation of the executive administration and the appointment of its Director shall be taken by a qualified majority. It also stipulates that decisions on the establishment or dissolution of committees shall be taken by a majority of those entitled to vote. The definition of a reinforced qualified majority is contained in paragraph 1 (a) of Annex IV, under which a reinforced qualified majority means that a decision cannot be taken if there are ten voting rights against it. Currently only the founding Member States of the OCCAR have ten voting rights, namely Italy, Germany, France and the United Kingdom; in turn, Belgium and Spain, but not the founders, have five and eight voting rights respectively. Paragraph 5 of Annex IV also states that, after an initial three-year period, the decision-making process can be reviewed in the light of all relevant elements. The first amendment proposed by the decision before us, in accordance with paragraph 5 above, concerns certain aspects of decision-making procedures by introducing a point in paragraph 1 of Annex IV, including, among the decisions taken by all Member States by a reinforced qualified majority, the allocation to the OCCAR of a programme and the integration of cooperation programmes in place between Member States. The second amendment also includes the conclusion of any agreement or understanding in accordance with Articles 37 and 38 of the Convention, or those Articles which provide for cooperation with non-member States and international organisations interested in participating in certain activities of the OCCAR or in one or more programmes. The forms of cooperation shall be governed by appropriate agreements to be decided by the Supervisory Board. The third amendment extends the point which provides for such a majority for the appointment of the Director, requiring the qualified majority reinforced also for the appointment of the Deputy Director of the Executive Administration of the Organization, in view of the fact that in the absence or impediment of the Director, it is precisely the Deputy Director who is called to replace him. Finally, Madam President, the fourth amendment provides for the replacement of paragraph 5 of Annex IV, providing that the Annex may be revised after a unanimous decision by the Monitoring Council at ministerial level. The aim of the agreement we are debating is to increase multinational cooperation on weapons programmes in order to maintain and increase the efficiency of our Armed Forces in times of economic constraints, also favouring the accession to the institutional structure of the OCCAR of new States, especially those already participating in the programs of the organization. Obviously the activities of this body must be based on criteria of transparency, in full compliance with the internal rules on arms trade (for us, in particular, Law No 185 of 1990). The draft ratification law consists of three articles concerning the authorisation of ratification, order of execution and entry into force. No additional costs or lower charges are provided. The technical report shows that the accession of new States would lead to savings on the participation of already member countries in the management costs of the organization's offices (which for each Member State amount to approximately 1.7 million euros per year). The Agreement, Madam President, does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, with Community law and with other international obligations assumed by our country. [[Applause from Senator Sangalli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u57	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u58	Madam President, Mr Pegorer has already explained very well the content of the text in our examination. This draft law provides for an amendment only to Annex IV to the Convention in question. The Lega Nord Group has always believed in the OCCAR since its foundation in 1998 because it was a tool that guaranteed the best synergies and also the cost containment in such a delicate sector, but, alas, also very expensive for public funds. Therefore, it is an instrument that must certainly be taken into account and the changes made, particularly the use of qualified majority in three specific cases, go in the direction of making it even easier for certain important decisions to be taken. I reserve the right to speak again in the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u59	The general debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. MARTON (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u62	Stitches (LN-Aut). Madam President, remembering that the League has already voted in favour of this measure in the House of Members with a speech by Mr Pini, I confirm this favourable approach and ask for permission to give my explanation of vote in order to be annexed to the proceedings of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u65	AMORUSO (AL-A). Madam President, we too are voting in favour of this measure. We have all heard, even from the rapporteur's words, how the OCCAR is a very important body. The aim of the agreement we are debating today is to increase multinational cooperation on these programmes, which is also a useful way of achieving savings and greater efficiency at a time of economic constraints, and also to promote membership of the structure of new States. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u68	CERVELLINI (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I would like to briefly explain our vote against. I would remind you that the OECD Agreement, concluded between Italy, France, Germany and the United Kingdom, subsequently joined Belgium and Spain, as was mentioned, bringing the number of Member States to six, but six other States, in particular Finland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Sweden, Poland and Turkey, participate in one or more programmes. The Supervisory Board is the highest decision-making body of the OCCAR and within it are representatives of the States the Ministers of Defence of the Member States who, in turn, have delegated their respective national arms directors. I remember that, as far as our country is concerned, the National Director of Weapons is the Air Squad General. The real point that we want to express, and that for us of the Italian Left is characteristic, concerns the repercussions that all this has had and will continue to have on the mechanisms and effectiveness of Law No 185 of 1990, on the export of armaments. I would like to recall one of the best European laws in establishing the effective control of Parliament and the prohibition of trading with warring countries that do not respect human rights. On the contrary, the agreement establishing the OCCAR transferred control over arms exchange management to a body other than Parliament, with the effect that the OCCAR has a legal personality on the basis of which it has assumed full negotiating capacity: conclusion of contracts, recruitment of personnel, determination of negotiating conditions in general. In short, in this regard, as regards the possibility of initiating legal proceedings, the contractual position of the OCCAR I was talking about would be protected by an International Agreement ratified by the national parliaments and therefore able to prevail in court over national choices, even dependent on ethical reasons that go against its interests. To conclude, at the time of the examination that we have carried out, I announce the Italian Left Group's vote against this ratification, which, as I said at the beginning, represents the continuation of the activities of the OCCAR, an organization that has a negative impact on the profiles of the law - I refer above all to the aforementioned law n. 185 - and reduces its effectiveness at a historical stage in which the European companies producing weapons continue to make huge profits for the sale to the countries of the Middle East and North Africa and, as often denounced by the Italian network for disarmament, are among the companies that take advantage of the flourishing market and the militarization of the European borders also for the fight against immigration, we believe in an absolutely immoral way, additional huge gains also from the crises of the refugees. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u71	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Madam President, the world changes, Europe changes, the United States changes (we saw it with the election of Trump), but what does not change is the attitude of European bureaucrats to create Chinese boxes, one inside the other; we wonder why. In our opinion, the reason is the desire to circumvent laws through different agreements between European states, which do not even pass through the European Parliament and which have no control, either from the citizens or from the parliaments. The OCCAR, as you know, has been set up to contribute to the development and management of intergovernmental weapons programmes and to facilitate the restructuring of European defence industries. So far there seems to be nothing wrong, but by deepening the tasks of this organization we have come to the conclusion that among the aims there is to reduce or circumvent national export control regulations and procedures. Currently the decision on the final destination is the responsibility of the country where the last assembly of the pieces to be exported is carried out. This agreement has a major impact on the mechanisms and effectiveness of Law No 185 of 1990 on arms exports (one of the best laws in the world), which establishes an effective control of Parliament and the prohibition of trading with countries in war and which do not respect human rights. This means that the OCCAR's contractual position would be able to prevail in court over choices at national level, even dependent on ethical reasons, that go against its interests. Moreover, the Agreement does not provide for any strict ethical criteria in the choice of countries, organizations and institutions with which the OCCAR intends to conclude contracts, to transfer and acquire military technology, supplies and structures, except the reference to the scope of the European Code of Conduct on the export of arms. In conclusion, the agreement establishing the OCCAR is a means of circumventing Law No 185 of 1990: a law further depowered by the subtraction of military co-production programmes from the annual report submitted to Parliament by the President of the Council of Ministers, pursuant to Article 5 of Law No 185 of 1990. At a historic stage in which European arms companies continue to make huge profits with arms sales, for example to Saudi Arabia, which continues to massacre civilians in Yemen, we have seen how our government has already bypassed 185, in a way at the limit of the law. We have already presented a report to the judiciary on this subject, but with the approval of this evil agreement we will no longer have a say in this matter. Therefore, I firmly vote against the M5S in this act and call on my colleagues from all sides to reflect well on the ratification of an agreement that takes away further sovereignty from this Parliament and its citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u74	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, the agreement we are examining is an agreement between countries, largely European and partly, as in the case of Turkey, countries that are in problematic situations both in relation to Europe and in relation to their internal dynamics. I am convinced, and so is my Group, that, at the time of signing agreements, countries are forced to acquire a dynamic of consensus with respect to principles, common values, shared behaviour and also to share the ways of respecting the agreements that are made. In this sense, also for the debate that we are going to have tomorrow on the subject of Turkey, which is a very hot issue, we believe that this agreement goes in the direction of consolidating and achieving a broader agreement, which goes beyond the European Union, and that, at a time like this, it is an additional agreement that brings together the countries rather than dividing them. In this respect, as well as the substance of the agreement, we will be voting in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u77	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u78	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u79	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2472, already approved by the House of Deputies. The working rapporteur, Senator Lucidi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u80	, f. f. Madam President, this draft law, already approved by the House, concerns the Agreement between Italy and Tajikistan on cultural, scientific and technological cooperation. Tajikistan already boasts with our country some collaborations at university level, which have led to the carrying out of important archaeological missions. The Agreement aims to promote their cultural heritage through the exchange of technical and scientific data and experience, as well as to further facilitate collaboration in the field of conservation, protection and enhancement of the artistic and archaeological heritage, preventing illicit transfers of cultural goods and ensuring the protection of intellectual property rights. The text, which consists of a preamble and 19 articles, first identifies the purpose of the Agreement in the commitment of the parties to promote cultural, scientific and technological cooperation on an equal basis and reciprocity, including in the programmes promoted by the Italian regions and the European Union, in particular in the fields of art and culture, museums, libraries and archives, education and university cooperation, science and tourism. Articles 1 to 6 on university and school education oblige the Parties to develop exchanges of experience and knowledge through seminars, exchanges of teachers and further training courses. Particular attention will be given to the promotion of knowledge, dissemination and teaching of the respective languages and literature, as well as to the award of scholarships to students and teachers for the attendance of university courses or for periods of vocational and craft training. The following articles are dedicated to the forms of collaboration between the parties in the cultural and artistic, sports and youth fields, in that of the media and in the fight against illicit trafficking in works of art. For scientific and technological collaboration between universities, research centres and other subjects in the two countries, joint studies, projects, conferences and the organization of mutual visits and scientific activities are expected. The national coordinating bodies for the implementation of the bilateral agreement are the two Ministries for Foreign Affairs, while a Joint Committee, which is to meet alternately in the two capitals, is entrusted with the examination of the progress of cultural and scientific-technological cooperation and the commitment to implement three-year executive programmes. Of relevance is Article 13, which commits the parties to promoting exchanges of technological information and joint scientific cooperation activities aimed at the transfer of technologies, without prejudice to intellectual property rights. The draft law ratifying the Agreement consists of four articles which form, respectively, the authorization to ratify, the order of execution, the financial coverage and the entry into force of the text. The charges are valued in total in approximately 172,000 euros annually. The analysis of the compatibility of the intervention does not indicate any constitutional problems, nor does it conflict with the Community and international regulations to which Italy is bound. In conclusion, Madam President, it is proposed that the House approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u81	I declare the general discussion open.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u82	Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Lucidi for his comprehensive report, which I believe has made clear the content of the measure. In the House, our Group abstained, but after an exchange of views also with my colleague, Mr Divina, who is a deep connoisseur of the area, and above all by considering the reality of Dushanbe and of the whole of Tajikistan, I think it is right that the House should vote in favour of this measure, as I will say in the explanation of vote; this is an advance here because, indeed, it is an agreement that can bear fruit both to one side and to the other. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u83	The general debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u86	Stitches (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am voting in favour of the League in the course of the general debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u89	AMORUSO (AL-A). Madam President, we too are voting in favour of this measure, which concerns cultural, scientific and technological cooperation. It is, therefore, a positive fact both for Italy and for Tajikistan, especially for this country, which today demonstrates greater openness at international level, and this is positive. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u92	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Madam President, the Agreement deals with topics dear to the 5 Star Movement, especially with a view to peaceful cooperation between countries aimed at enhancing culture and cultural exchange which, in our opinion, can improve mutual relations and have important implications in the field of research and, indirectly, also in the field of tourism. For these reasons I am voting in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u95	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, I am speaking to announce the Democratic Party's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u98	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u99	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u100	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 2224, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 1134 and 1648. The rapporteur, Senator Bianco, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u101	Madam President, illustrious Undersecretary, illustrious senators and senators, the measure in question, dismissed by the Chamber at first reading at the end of February 2016 and assigned to the 12th Senate Commission in second reading in March, contains in a complex synthesis eight draft laws deposited in the Chamber. I would remind you that at the same time the draft laws deposited in the 12th Commission in the Senate had been drawn up. I think it is worth remembering that the House's proposal has correctly acquired the guidelines set out by the National Committee of Experts set up by the Minister of Health and chaired by the then chairman of the National Forensic Council, Professor Alpa. What has been mentioned in recent history, but which actually dates back, even on more limited aspects, to acts of the XIII legislature, testifying on the one hand to the need for legislative intervention on a highly sensitive subject at the civil and social level, but became ungovernable, and on the other hand the objective difficulties to face the multiple implications of a phenomenon (the litigation in health) that has polluted the professional practices of opportunistic behaviour for defensive purposes, which weighs of direct and indirect inappropriate costs the budgets of public and private health and, not least, that consumes the trust between citizens, health professionals and health institutions. The text dismissed by the Chamber takes charge of that necessity, aggravated over time, and proposes an incisive system reform that, starting from the safety of care, qualified as a constituent part of the right to health protection, redefines the civil liability of public and private health and socio-sanitary structures, innovates the profiles of criminal and civil liability of operators in the health professions, constitutes a framework of obligations for contractors and insurance companies suitable to guarantee the certainty of compensations and actions of revalsa, introduces new measures for the simplification, speed and effectiveness of the preliminary and judicial procedures related to the health dispute. The legislative measure therefore goes beyond the logic of sectoral interventions to date pursued, with the ultimate aim of guaranteeing, in the safety of care, the appropriateness of the same, in the certainty of the law, in the transparency of management actions and in the qualification of the responsibilities of the various actors that climate of serenity and trust between citizens, professionals and health institutions indispensable to withstand the challenges of a universalist and equitable health protection. The work of the 12th Commission, through a listening phase that recorded 44 hearings and the examination of some 400 amendments, has developed in the wake of the highly innovative proposals already contained in the text of the House and concluded with the inclusion of amendments that improve and clarify certain aspects and contents. It is not by chance that the measure starts from the safety of the care, intended as patient safety and safety of the operators, knowing that it is a constituent part of the right to health. I remember that already the law of stability 2016, in paragraphs 538, 539 and 540, has anticipated measures aimed at strengthening all those activities of prevention and management of clinical risk in health and social health structures, identifying subjects and risk management procedures. The measure completes that operational context, providing for a unique system for the collection and transmission of data relating to risks and adverse events, claims reported and compensation and insurance modalities for civil liability, by the health facilities to the regional centres, which collect the coded data and transmit them to the National Observatory good practices for the safety of patients, at Agenas, also in order to promote and modular, in the organizational and professional contexts specific, educational and training activities on safety. I would like to stress the great importance that the availability of a unique, clear, essential, transparent and accessible system of these data, not only, as mentioned, for every programmatic activity, but also for estimating risk indices and on these optimizing insurance premiums. The transparency of the data relating to litigation, as emerged from the risk management activities, is already proposed in the text of the Chamber of Deputies both as an instrument that brings institutions closer to the citizens, improving their ability and responsibilities to orient themselves on the choices, and as an opportunity of the same organizations to improve their performance. In this direction, the provision of faster and easier access than in the current legislation to clinical documentation (the ones available in seven days) should be made where there are legally relevant interests. Improving the quality and safety of health care services is closely linked to the production, dissemination and uptake of good clinical and welfare practices based on best available evidence and recommendations provided by the guidelines. On this sensitive issue, which has a significant impact on the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of health care, the Commission has developed an in-depth reflection in order to balance two constitutional principles: on the one hand, the need to safeguard the principles of universalism and fairness in the protection of health and, on the other hand, the need to respect the autonomy and freedom of pure and translational technical and scientific research and professional exercise. This is a passage that, as is easy to understand, goes beyond the direct reference to virtuous conduct that can take away the professionals from criminal offences profiles, moreover provided by the text, also offering the opportunity for the construction - finally - of a national system of guidelines open to the contribution of every public or private subject, qualified and identified in a special list drawn up and verified by the Ministry of Health, but responsibly governed by institutions that protect the public interests related to the provision of health and social health benefits. The text proposed by the Commission on this subject moves in the wake of the text of the Chamber of Deputies, but, also at the request of many scientific communities, it identifies in a more analytical way the requirements of transparency and technical and scientific qualification of the subjects qualified to draw up the guidelines and, above all, resumes and requalifies in these new scenarios the National System guidelines which, although already established by a decree of the Ministry of Health in 2007, has progressively lost over time incisiveness and authority in the governance of the production and dissemination of new knowledge and competences. Finally, the norm gives the Higher Institute of Health the task of identifying and making public methodological standards of production of guidelines, already adopted by the international scientific community, with respect to which to assess the adherence of the same guidelines before publishing them on its institutional site. This too can and must constitute a system response to that returning scientific illiteracy, to that laxism on the rigor of the method of pure and translational scientific research, to that obscurantism and scientific negationism that occasionally emerge and injure the pillars on which modern science and modern medicine have developed, but that above all - this is important - hurt people's health. The reformist scope of the measure under consideration could not fail to affect the criminal order, also following a long and troubled legal reflection on the so-called medical fault, which found its last point of legislative fall in Article 3 of the so-called Balduzzi law. This rule is repealed by Article 6, fully reworded by the Senate Justice Commission, introducing in the Criminal Code a new article, 590-Ee, which excludes punishableness in the event that the event has occurred due to malpractice and the professional has complied with the recommendations of the guidelines or, in the absence of them, to have adhered to good clinical-assistant practices, without prejudice to his right-obligation to assess the adequacy of the recommendations and therefore to compare his conduct to the needs of the specific patient, in that specific operating context. Article 7 introduces profound innovations in civil liability in the field of health: the first concerns the two different liability regimes in relation to the parties involved in the action for compensation. The health structures are liable for contractual failure (with reversal of the burden of proof and limitation to ten years) also for the criminal and malicious conduct of the operators the health professions of which in any capacity they make use as service providers. The operators of the health professions, in any capacity operating in public and private health and socio-health facilities, if directly called into question, respond to their actions on an unlawful basis (ex Article 2043 of the Civil Code, so-called non-contractual liability with a burden of proof on the applicant and a prescription for five years) except that - this is the amendment of the Senate Health Commission - they have acted in the performance of a contractual obligation assumed with the patient. The second innovation is contained in Article 8, i.e. the mandatory attempt at conciliation which provides for the prior obligation of the person pursuing an action for compensation for damage resulting from health liability before the civil court to bring an action under Article 696-a of the Code of Civil Procedure before the competent court; this request is a condition for the processability of the claim for compensation. The court shall appoint an official technical adviser with the task of reconciling the dispute within a maximum of six months and with the obligation of the parties involved to participate in the procedure, including insurance; if the conciliation fails or after the six-month period, it shall be brought to trial, including by recourse to the summary rite. It is clear that the objectives of the innovations introduced in the civil field are to reduce the pressure of compensation actions directed directly at health professionals and to facilitate the resolution of the dispute at the preliminary stage quickly and surely or, in the absence of conciliation, to acquire at the trial all the acts produced. On the action of revalsa I emphasize that paragraph 1 of Article 9 of the text Chamber, reproposed completely by the Commission, defines a clear and central rule in the establishment of the law, namely that the action of reval against the operator the health profession can be exercised only by those having a title in case of malice or gross negligence. The Commission has instead innovated paragraph 5 of Article 9, also on the basis of numerous indications collected in this sense, restoring, with respect to the text Chamber, the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors for actions of administrative responsibility towards the operator the profession of health care for malice or serious fault, in case of acceptance of the claim for compensation proposed against the public structure. This choice, however, consistent with the general order of public administrations in the matter of erarial damage, among its opportunities, in addition to those known on the autonomous exercise of administrative action, of reductive power and non-transmissibility to the heirs, except for the unlawful gain, also includes that of avoiding the organizational paradox that it is the public structures to have to start the actions of revalsa in civil, perhaps legitimately using against their professionals those skills and knowledge of prevention and management of risk not fully acquired, in the predictable distrust of the professionals to collaborate in activities that could be used against themselves in a judgment of revalsa. The legislation also intervenes on the one hand in quantifying the maximum amount of revenge, in case of serious negligence, on the other hand in providing contextual measures of a disciplinary nature for limited time in career progressions. Even for the purpose of revenge, Article 13 of the text provides for measures obliging all parties to receive compensation, which may involve the operator's responsibility for the health profession, to give such timely communication by appropriate means. A reform of the system on health litigation could not escape the organic approach to insurance obligations, with the aim of building a certain system of compensation, consistent with the new system of civil liability. To this end, Article 10 reiterates that public and private health and socio-health facilities must be provided with insurance cover or other similar measures for civil liability to third parties and to workers, including for damage caused by personnel under any of their activities, in accordance with and for the effects of Articles 1218 and 1228 of the Civil Code. The Commission has supplemented the text of paragraph 1 approved by the Chamber of Deputies, with the provision that these structures must also take insurance policies or take similar measures for civil liability to third parties of health professionals, if they are invested by an action for compensation brought pursuant to Article 2043. In a more general logic of balance and solvency of compensation, it has been provided for in paragraph 3 the obligation for traders in the health professions, liable to administrative action of the Court of Auditors for damage or reval in civil, if operating in private structures, to enter into appropriate insurance policies for serious and malicious fault. The picture of certainties in this field has been further strengthened through the identification, by decree of the Ministry of Economic Development, in agreement with the Ministry of Health, after a wide participation of all the interested parties, of requirements and characteristics of the policies, with specific indications relative to the retroactivity and the ultraactivity of the guarantees themselves of at least ten years, pursuant to Article 11 of the text under consideration. For regions which take other similar measures to cover civil liability, commonly known as self-insurance, the obligation is to set up a risk fund and to manage claims with provisions for jurisdiction and not for cash, protecting such funds according to current law from enforced enforcement measures. Finally, Article 14 provides for the establishment of a guarantee fund, with a legislative rule totally reworded by the Commission in its constitutional and operational procedures - there was a technical problem in its formulation - financed with percentages of insurance premiums in the sector, to cover any over-maximum compensation or the insolvency of insurance undertakings. Finally, it is reiterated that biological damage recognised with disability rates from 10% to 100% - the so-called macro-permanents - is compensated by reference to single tables at national level, remembering that this issue, opened since 2007 without solutions, would finally find a point of fall in the draft law on competition and the market, shortly under discussion at the Senate Assembly. Article 12 of the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies introduces in the context of the litigation in health a third mode of action for the injured, that directed to the insurance companies, but limited to those of the health and social health structures or to the operators the health professions that operate in free profession, or because of a contractual obligation assumed with the patient. It is evident that the aim is to increase the instruments available to the injured party to initiate the action for compensation, thus serving a probable acceleration of the time of litigation and the direct and indirect costs connected precisely to the time of the dispute. The measure brings back and harmonises this new institute - if you want to be comparable to the car RC model - to the general discipline in terms of prescription, revalsa and participation of the parties involved in the judgment. In Article 15, the draft law under consideration substantially amends the rules on the appointment of CTUs in civil and expert criminal matters, constituting the expertise, as we all know, the cornerstones of the judgment, especially in the area of litigation and health judgments. In fact, the procedures for the verification of competences are strengthened and the possible conflicts of interest made transparent by making available to the judge in fact all the books present at national level (comma 1) and to be updated every five years (comma 3). An amendment to the Chamber text made by the Contacting Commission has in fact laid down a special framework for criminal and civil litigation relating to health liability where it is provided that the judicial authority always entrusts advice and expertise to a college consisting of a doctor specialised in forensic medicine and to one or more specialists with specific and practical knowledge of the subject matter of the procedure and referring to all health professions (paragraphs 1 and 3). Article 16 of the Chamber text, which is not affected by changes by the Contacting Commission, has, in my opinion, at least an extraordinary scope where it provides that the minutes and acts resulting from the clinical risk management activity cannot be acquired or used in court proceedings. I remember that our system of criminal and civil liability is based on the recognition of guilt and, therefore, protecting the confidentiality of acts and minutes has the enormous significance of recognizing to these the pursuit of interests worthy of protection (the prevention and management of risk) at least as much as those pursued by the powers of investigation of the judiciary in the determination of guilt. Madam President, Madam Senators and Senators, in conclusion, the measure under consideration is a reform which was born in and managed by Parliamentary Assemblies. As I hope to have represented you in an incisive summary, it is an effective reform, profoundly innovative, but balanced in the protection of all legitimate interests in the field. We are in this House to debate it and, as far as possible, to improve it further, aware that it is a reform that has been waiting for because it has been so long overdue. I think you will all agree that this time we cannot and must not disappoint. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u102	We welcome the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo Statale "Aldo Moro" in Guardavalle, in the province of Catanzaro, who attend our works. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u103	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Silvestro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law, entitled 'Provisions on the occupational responsibility of health professionals', deals with a subject of particular interest to citizens who benefit from health care facilities and services and to the whole health world. The demanding, even amending, reflection carried out primarily by the 12th The Senate Commission has helped to make the text approved by the House of Deputies even more effective, relevant and linear and today landed in this branch of Parliament. The amendments, which will be analysed, discussed and put to the vote, start from the title of the bill for which a change of particular significance is proposed. In fact, it is included in the title an important reference that brings the bill not only to professionals exhibiting the health professions, but also and above all to citizens who benefit from the services of health and social health facilities and users of the services of professionals who exercise in those structures. The proposed title is: "Provisions on the safety of care and professional responsibility of health professionals." On the other hand, the draft law addresses the issue of the protection of care, the safety of care, the protection and safety of professionals acting on several aspects, such as the system of care. The role of guarantor for the right to health is conferred on the regional or provincial ombud (Article 2); regional centres for the management of health risk and patient safety are set up; the preparation and publication on the website of each health facility is arranged a six-monthly summary report of adverse events and the consequent initiatives implemented, precisely in the logic of transparency towards citizens and for their mature and conscious choice; the national observatory of good practices on health safety is established (Article 3). Another aspect concerns the organizational structure: the obligation to transparency of health and social health services carried out by public and private structures (Article 4 (1)); the obligation to provide clinical documentation within thirty days of the citizen's request (Article 4, paragraph 2); it is established that the data relating to all compensations granted in the last five years (Article 4, paragraph 3). It is also indicated that health professionals must comply with good clinical-assistance practices and recommendations provided for in the guidelines drawn up by scientific and technical societies on a specific list established and regulated by the Ministry of Health (Article 5). It is defined that the public or private health or socio-sanitary structure responds in accordance with Articles 1218 and 1228 of the Civil Code of the conduct of arson and manslaughter of the health professionals it makes use of, whether they are rendered dependent, i.e. in a free-trade or intra-mural profession (Articles 6 and 7) if the event - excluding impriety - has taken place despite the recommendations provided by the guidelines or in compliance with good clinical welfare practices. For the operator, the health profession is included in the penal code Article 590-e (poisonary liability for death or personal injury in the health field). This Article states that the operator shall be the health profession which, in the course of his or her activity, causes the death or personal injury of the assisted person to be a result of the offences referred to in Articles 589 and 590 only in the event of serious misconduct. It is clear that serious guilt is excluded when good clinical-assistant practices and recommendations provided for in the guidelines as defined and published in accordance with the law are respected. It is indicated that the action of revenge against the operator may be pursued only in the event of malice or gross negligence. As regards the insurance part, the obligation is defined for the companies of the National Health Service, the private structures and institutions operating independently or accredited to be provided with insurance cover for civil liability to third parties and for civil liability to service providers for damages caused by personnel in any capacity operating at the company, structure or institution (Article 10). The health profession is defined as an obligation for each operator to provide for the conclusion, with charges to be borne by an appropriate insurance policy, always to protect citizens. Finally, in order to respond to damages suffered by the assisted citizen, there is a double track on the civil front: contractual liability for health facilities which, in my opinion, indicates greater protection of the citizen, adding also the ten-year limitation of the right; non-contractual liability for each operator in the health professions. On the criminal front, the text provides for the inclusion of Article 590-b in the penal code which excludes serious misconduct when the operator of the healthcare profession acts in compliance with good clinical-assistant practices and recommendations provided for in the guidelines. A health liability guarantee fund is established. It is therefore, as the rapporteur has pointed out, a comprehensive text and structure, which I briefly referred to only in some parts, which, for me, are fundamental, which deals with the issue of the safety of care in relation to the care it receives, the reorientation of health organisations, the working and care environment for the benefit of caregivers and professionals. Beyond the additional, multiple and complex aspects of the legal and judicial component, the insurance component and the component that integrates the relationship between patients, between professionals and structure and between patients and individual professionals, I would like to reflect on other aspects that I consider to be fundamental to this issue. Modern and current medicine presents a high rate of complexity, both for the remarkable scientific achievements achieved (technology, computer technology, innovative and innovative drugs, constant redefinition of diagnostic healing processes assistance and rehabilitation) and for the unavoidable need for integrated and multi-professional work, unique in order to ensure that the care team can better adhere to the requests and requests of the assisted citizen. Network systems are set up and tested, different health offers are integrated, new organisational models are proposed, operators are asked all and healthcare professionals in particular, to adapt to this difficult everyday operation, to be proactive and innovative, to customize the therapeutic diagnostic process and the care process, to guarantee personalization and continuity, protection and safety even in the assumption that the healthcare professional has a position of guarantee towards the patient. This complexity has often produced difficult clinical-assistant situations, behaviors that confront increasingly high expectations in terms of outcomes and results by the caregivers and their family members, exponential increase in legal litigation. These elements, which gave rise to the phenomenon of so-called medicine and defensive assistance that produces inappropriateness in the response to the needs of the caregivers, as well as additional costs and delays in the work processes. With the approval of this bill you can begin to contain the phenomenon of defensive medicine and you will also begin to build work serenity for professionals, to strengthen the relationship of trust between the health professionals all (doctors, nurses, midwives, laboratory technicians, radiology) and the assisted and between health professionals and the organization in which they operate. From this point of view they are particularly indicative - and in my opinion fundamental - the articles in which it is stated that the safety of care is part of the constitutive right to health and is pursued in the interest of the individual and the community (Article 1, paragraph 1); that the safety of care is realized through the whole of all the activities aimed at the prevention and management of the risk related to the provision of health services and the appropriate use of structural, technological and organizational resources (Article 1, paragraph 2); that to the activities of prevention of the clinical risk put in place by the health companies is required to concur all the personnel who work there with a commitment and a sharing of knowledge, responsibility and attention towards the citizens who take advantage of our health system. For all this, the wish for the adoption of the draft law and for a rapid conclusion of the legislative process. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u105	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mancuso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u106	Madam President, today's is an extremely important measure, which has raised high hopes for health professionals and which is aimed not only at health professionals, but at all users of the National Health Service, as has been appropriately pointed out by amending the title. It represents, in fact, a fundamental contribution to the efficiency and sustainability of the health system, putting professionals in a position to operate with tranquility and serenity, and thus guaranteeing patients the best possible care. Parliament has been able to listen to the health professions in the form of a measure that has been awaited for years, which is a guarantee for the medical world and intervenes positively on the limitation of medical-legal litigation, which absorbs huge resources every year and does not ensure the satisfaction of the citizens' right to health. Briefly retracing some of the founding points of the article, convinces us the rule according to which the Regions can entrust to the Ombudsman the function of guarantor of the right to health, giving the possibility to every person recipient of health services to refer free to the lawyer for the reporting of malfunctions of the system of health care; in case of justification of the alert, the guarantor arranges an intervention to protect the law injured, with the powers and modalities established by the regional legislation. The Centre for the Management of Health Risk and Patient Safety should be established in each Region, which collects regional data on adverse risks and events and on the causes, extent, frequency and financial burden of the litigation and transmits them to the National Observatory of Good Practices on Health Safety. The latter, established in accordance with Article 3, will also be responsible for monitoring good practices for the safety of care and for the training and updating of staff and the preparation of guidelines. It takes note of the activity of reporting with a view to transparency that obliges public and private structures to prepare a half-yearly report, to be published also on their website, on adverse events occurring within the structure, highlighting the causes and solutions, and that the data relating to all compensations paid in the last five years are also published. 18.15 p.m. (Follow-up). Always with the aim of transparency and guarantee of the citizen and with regard to the right of access to documents, it is also established that within seven days of the submission of the request by the rightholders, the health management of the structure (public or private) provides the available medical documentation relating to the patient, preferably in electronic format. Reference parameters are set for the activities of health professionals: these are the recommendations set out in the guidelines defined in accordance with Article 5 of the measure, integrated into the National System for Guidelines and published on the website of the Higher Institute of Health. These parameters are also a fundamental factor in the judge's assessment of incidents relating to alleged crimes of manslaughter and personal injury caused by malpractice in the exercise of the health profession. The current legislation, which this draft law explicitly repeals, excludes the responsibility in question for cases of mild guilt, if, in the course of its activity, the operator has complied with guidelines and good practices accredited by the scientific community. The new framework proposed here does not make general distinctions between degrees of guilt, excluding punishable cases where the recommendations provided for in the guidelines have been complied with. It is also specified that the form of civil liability of the structure is contractual (i.e. violation of a specific obligation) and is also applicable with regard to health services carried out under the intra-mural profession, in the context of experimentation and clinical research activities, under a convention with the National Health Service and through telemedicine. It is confirmed that the civil liability of health professionals, for the damages deriving from the conduct of malicious or manslaughter, is of a non-contractual nature (i.e. deriving from the violation of the general obligation not to harm anyone without the possibility of the identification of an obligation before the violation). For the claim for compensation for damages arising from health liability, the obligatory mediation for the purposes of the processability of the subsequent judicial application shall be replaced by a prior technical advice, for the purpose of establishing and determining the relative determination of claims arising from the failure or incorrect execution of contractual or unlawful obligations. Moreover - very important - this provision contains a rule that limits the possibility of reval of the health structure towards its employees or of administrative responsibility to the operator a health profession to cases of malice or gross negligence. With regard to the amount of the order for damages under the above-mentioned proceedings, a limit equal to three times the annual gross wage is introduced (with the exception of dolo cases). As regards the insurance chapter, the measure confirms the obligation for civil liability to third parties and for civil liability to service providers, to be borne by health, public and private structures. It is also specified that the obligation also applies to social and health care facilities and health services carried out under the intra-mural profession or in agreement with the National Health Service. The same Article 10 provides for the obligation of health professionals who carry out the activity outside the said structures to provide insurance for the risks arising from the pursuit of the same activity. Finally, there is an obligation for health professionals, operating in any capacity in public or private health or socio-health facilities, to take out an appropriate civil liability insurance policy for serious misconduct. Finally, Mr President, I should like to thank all those who have contributed to extremely complex work, starting with the Commissioners of the 12th The Commission, which began the examination of the text in February last year, concluded only a few days ago in a truly detailed and shared set of rules. I also hope that the subsequent examination of the House of Deputies will take place quickly, also considering that the issues covered by this text are closely linked to those dealt with by the bill on the health sector, which is now being examined by the other branch of Parliament. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and the White and De Biasi Senators]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u107	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, my colleague, rapporteur, a measure of this kind would have deserved a more qualified and numerous audience, as we often hope. I mean a qualified audience in numerical terms, because quality certainly is. And he would have deserved it for a number of reasons. First of all, because the measure, as Senator Bianco said, has been awaited for many years. Secondly, because it has its own peculiarity: it is a bill of parliamentary initiative. And I must say that we do not often see in Parliament important draft laws of parliamentary initiative. This one is. It was born in the Chamber of Deputies, following the presentation of a large number of bills of various political forces. The first political force was that of my colleague, Mr Benedetto Fucci, and then others were added. A separate committee then drew up a unified text which included the summaries of a debate which took place there. It is important, and not marginally, that this is a draft law of parliamentary initiative, because the recovery of the debate, of the debate, of the serious deepening, and not aimed at a tireless ritual in the competent fora, first in the Commission and then in the Chamber, is a fundamental element. It restores not only dignity to politics, but also a better quality of legislative production that we give to the country and of which, unfortunately, all too often, especially in recent times, I understand that we repent. The measurement of the effects of legislative production in the daily lives of our community, in fact, seems disheartening. We have followed closely the work done in the House. It has been oriented towards a form of collaboration that has then produced the result of the text that we inherited here in the Senate and that we have analyzed, evaluated, studied and debated even with intellectual honesty. I would have expected something more, and I hope that the House will recover that quid that was missing. However, I cannot ignore how hard the work of the rapporteur has been, how good Mr De Biasi has been in coordinating the work and how difficult it has been to analyse and evaluate a measure that we would probably have better dealt with in a joint work of the Health and Justice Commissions. On the other hand, the Commission's justice and the corresponding Dicastery have, as it were, extended their eyes, very often entering more than I expected into the Commission's work. I am talking, of course, about relationships that I have not maintained and of which I know very little. I know, however, that there has been a just, necessary and perhaps also useful (I don't know how much, but we will understand) intervention of other ministries. Here, however, the presence of the Undersecretary De Filippo, who oversees this measure on behalf of the Government reassures me. We therefore had a generally positive working method. This legislation has long been awaited and can be considered as a whole good, since medicine is not an exact science, as well as expectations and cultural level, sensitivity, the level of recognition of rights for the citizen-patient have evolved over time. If only we think that a few decades ago the medical recipe was written in Latin, we see how far it has gone in giving back in concrete a position of centrality to the citizen, who is the recipient (now also aware and protagonist) of the health service that he intends to guarantee. However, we have also tried to take a few steps forward and, even in that condition of uncertainty, of insecurity, if not of chronic fear that has accompanied the activity of health professionals and in particular that of the doctor, has recovered some points of virtuosity. I believe that the effort that has been made has been precisely to put the relationship between the doctor and the patient in a balanced condition and there is no doubt that when a good relationship between the doctor and the patient is recovered the result is absolutely positive in the quality, effectiveness, appropriateness and adequacy of the professional performance that is provided. Not only does this peaceful measure, it clarifies, gives some element of certainty to the doctor in relation to the value and significance of the medical act; not only does it make progress towards a better government of the so-called clinical risk, but it returns (even lately) to the citizen a position of protagonism. The possibility of having greater transparency throughout the therapeutic process, from taking charge until the end of the care course, the possibility of requesting and obtaining and in absolutely certain times the access to the documentation for the evaluations of the case I believe that they are absolutely important elements that the legislative measure under consideration achieves. With regard to the overall effects of the measure on our health, I have mentioned the quality of the relationship between doctor and patient and how this relationship, restored in a logic of compliance with the rules and clarity of the paths, is a positive fact, but it is not the only one. In my opinion, this measure is intended to have a positive effect on that sad page that we often deal with when we talk in general about welfare policies and our health care. I refer to that page that passes under the title of defensive medicine, which is considered as that set of behaviors that the doctor puts in place in order to put in protection itself compared to the fear that attitudes sometimes - let's be frank - even speculative, in order to obtain a benefit in the face of a supposed medical malpractice. For Christ's sake, there are also cases of obvious guilt that deserve to be found more effective and timely feedback in the area of the right to compensation by the citizen. Perhaps, however, we have the opportunity, through this measure, to see the number of disputes reduced. Each year there are over 30,000 files that open on the side of damage recognition. 58 percent of doctors - reports Agenas - admitted to practicing defensive medicine and 64 percent consider it an instrument that has guaranteed a decrease in probability of error, but at the same time considers defensive medicine a limiting factor. More than 30,000 impose a particularly important burden not only on the economy but also on the congestive nature of our justice, with a fairly low percentage of positive feedback, although it must be pointed out that over the last ten years the number of positive receptions of claims has increased. In addition to the deflagration of litigation, there is also a calming effect of the costs of insurance policies, as this measure can lead to re-discipline governance within the insurance paths that doctors have lived on their own skin as a kind of short circuit. Again, we will have the revitalization of those specialization schools that have gone into shortage of members - I think of those in gynecology, orthopedics and surgery - that have experienced a particularly important contraction, which, of course, represents a vulnus to the organization of our National Health Service. However, alongside these main effects, overall assessments must also be made. I am referring to the main objective referred to in Article 1: safety of treatment. This bill certainly aims at reconciliation, at the refoundation of the relationship between health care worker and patient, in particular between doctor and patient; it leads to a kind of renaissance of Italian health, which needs something more than a simple modernization intervention, and aims to redefine, even in a pointy way, the rules to ensure the safety of care. From this point of view, the aspects relating to prevention and management of clinical risk I believe are a milestone, as well as the guarantee of third-party, which is achieved through the prediction of the Ombudsman, of his role as guarantor, of openness to the representation of patients. Perhaps we would have done better to write about patients and citizens, but this is a step forward. I would also like to mention: the transparency of the data and the possibility of having the contentiousness of a particular structure; the possibility of requesting access to the data of its own relevance and obtaining them in a very reasonable time. Before it was necessary to contact a lawyer, today it will be enough a simple note, perhaps transmitted by certified e-mail. The guidelines of good clinical-assistant practices are another milestone: it establishes who makes them, how does them, who controls them, who supervises ex ante, ex post and in progress. With regard to the fulfilment of the requirements, it is expressly provided that the Ministry will adopt a decree to establish the requirements, but the task of the Ministry itself - and I am pleased to do so - is also addressed, once again recovering the autonomy that Parliament declines through the approval of this measure. In essence, it is determined what must contain the decree of the Ministry: the legal status of the institution or organization that makes the guidelines; the legal nature of the institution; the possession and maintenance of the requirements and tasks of the Higher Institute of Health, which has the delegation to carry out important functions. These guidelines must be constantly updated, recovering the principle that medicine is not an exact science, but it is a science that is updated with time. Very often the speed of acquisition of the products of scientific research can be higher than the updating of the same guidelines; and this, of course, is foreseen, regulated and codified. Article 6 also provides for another point that is absolutely important, namely the criminal liability of the health care professional, in cases where there is a fault, but also the exemption of professional responsibility when it is determined by imperience and when imperience is accompanied also by the documented and punctual testimony that he has followed carefully as regards the care path that doctor must observe in terms of obligations provided for by the guidelines. I believe that this has a positive effect from the deflagrant point of view of the large amount of litigation in the judicial and criminal fields. The fact that we have recovered clearer principles relating to the re-valsa action, with reference also to the person who must be responsible for the assessments (the competence of the public prosecutor of the Court of Auditors is reported), is, I think, an absolutely important fact. Could more be done? I say you can do more. And how can you do more? More can be done, Mr Undersecretary, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, bearing witness to the fact that the production of the amendments does not have a obstructive purpose. Those who speak to you have tabled some basic common sense amendments, which we believe can help to take a step forward and which I shall present tomorrow in this House. I quote only two, by way of example. I wondered why, just six years after the introduction of legislative decree 28 on the media conciliation, Article 8 provides for the precise and precise exclusion of the media conciliation procedure from the activity relating to the litigation that is determined in this matter. I was not given a justification. Ministerial sources have told me, in a documented way, that it has an absolutely destructive effect with the medium conciliation, even if it is still not sufficiently used today. And then there's another aspect. I wonder why the doctor who is investigated by the prosecutor for facts related to medical malpractice should go from the prosecutor to the judge, skipping the stage of the preliminary hearing. This is frankly not acceptable, and I think it is an abuse and limitation of the principles of warranty of the suspect, because the suspect, before becoming accused, must be assessed by a third-party judge and only after arriving before the judge of preliminary investigations. I have made these two examples (tomorrow I will explain others), which I entrust to the attention of the Government, the rapporteur and the Assembly as a whole. I would like to express my support for this measure, but - as has already been announced in the Health and Health Commission - my vote will be conditioned by the outcome of the vote on the amendments that I have tabled and which I put back to the assessment of the Government, the rapporteur and the House. [[Applause from the CoR Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u109	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u110	Mr President, we are debating an extremely important measure, which perhaps has not been given the right importance within the parliamentary classrooms. We are discussing this here, in an almost empty Chamber, and even within the Commission, although there have been speeches and comparisons, we have probably not really realised the regulatory scope of this fundamental measure.We are talking about the titles on which the doctor and the health doctor respond if their conduct has caused damage. This is an extremely sensitive issue, because it affects one of the biggest and most fragile rights, namely the right to health. Perhaps, however, more than the right to health should be talked about the right to health care, because the right to health seems almost to imply the possibility of action in order to be healthy, safe and always healed. We are talking about a very difficult and delicate relationship, which is the one between patient and doctor. The measure under consideration, which is very complex and complex, affects the fundamental relationships that exist between the patient and his doctor. All of us, at times when we are in trouble and facing health problems, rely completely on the doctor. And this reliance is so complete and penetrating that sometimes the patient can heal with the strength that the doctor gives him. The relationship between the patient and the doctor must, therefore, be particularly protected and considered by us. As I said before, this measure contains an extremely complex structure that affects very personal relationships. There are two issues which have raised considerable doubts. We do not discuss the possibility of making a technical-preventive assessment aimed also at conciliation, which is fine. It is in fact excellent thing that, before bringing a real cause, we can proceed with an expert that will prove any damage and causes, so - perhaps - even to be able to solve very controversial issues already in that forum. We do not even discuss the possibility of making data on damage or any adverse events that may concern a hospital company and the activity of the doctor transparent. In fact, it is right that, when he enters a structure, the patient knows the possible difficulties that the same one has had, so that he can better decide where to go to treat himself. However, in all this together, surely two passages - in our opinion - were perhaps to be dealt with and considered in a different way. Firstly, there is the possibility for the injured patient to act directly towards the operator in the health profession. This may seem to be a given, to some extent, taken for granted: the wrong person pays; the guilty person must be identified, exactly the faults, what the doctor did wrong and what doctor did wrong. With regard to this profile, ladies and gentlemen, we must pay particular attention to it. At a time when the patient is given the opportunity to act directly towards the doctor, he opens the door to a set of extremely varied situations. It happens that a person who suffers resorts to certain treatments; the cures do not have a good outcome, there may have been mistakes or not, and there is a sad or serious event such as death. It is obvious that relatives, family members and the same injured person feed in their own heart the desire to identify who is guilty; allowing the patient to take direct action seems almost to allow him to look for a scapegoat at all costs. We must take this into account, and it is a passage that we should never allow. The patient and his doctor, in fact, must never be placed at the opposite extremes, almost as counterparts. At the time when the hospital company to which the doctor works is responsible, we already have a different situation; then we also admit the revenge, we admit that we can be used even without roofs, but the action should be directed against the institution in case of actual mistakes. Direct action poses this difficulty. Therefore, if it is true that the patient can actually identify who is responsible - which is also right, because it is right that those who sometimes fail have to pay - the problem is that the confidence on the basis of which the relationship between patient and doctor should be born immediately risks being polluted by the fear that the same doctor can feed inside himself, that is to say, being a tomorrow quoted in a cause. And this can prompt him to adopt behaviors that can be placed in a grey area or that may be expressed in what is called defensive medicine, which some have called a sort of abstention medicine. In view of the danger and fear that your work may lead to similar consequences, your doctor may feel compelled to carry out further investigations (instead of two magnetic resonances, prescribe three, with an increase in costs), or may even give up a certain type of intervention, take dilatory attitudes or be concerned about your work. In connection with this, of course, there is an insurance problem, of which both the rapporteur and the Commission have shown that they are fully aware, but I do not know whether the forecasts contained in the measure can help to unravel some doubts or avoid certain risks. The problem so far highlighted by many doctors is that of the cost of the insurance policy. Since they are policies at first risk, they can provide for premiums of a certain size: to provide for this kind of obligation, arising from the fact that they can act directly towards the doctor, leaves the same doctor the burden of breaking up into a world of titans, such as that of insurance companies, in seeking the best policy, perhaps the cheapest (and we do not know if the most economic policy has all the appropriate characteristics in this respect). We therefore welcome the article in which policies are expected to meet certain minimum conditions. Even so, there are difficulties that have been revealed and represented, even quite vehemently by some representatives of the doctors themselves. This is a concern that we cannot forget, we cannot pretend that it does not exist and we must give answers. We do not know whether the measure in question can actually give answers. The analysis of a legal text, as it is structured, complex and difficult, does not always suggest the possible consequences. In this sense, we all welcome the good will which the rapporteur has always expressed that he will want to confront this House and hope that improvements can be made here.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u111	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u112	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative text we are debating today deals with a fundamental issue, such as the right to health and good practice to guarantee health. Health is a constitutionally guaranteed asset, but there would be some considerations on the National Health Service. To date, it has been considered among the best in the Western world, but it is put at risk as regards universality, fairness and solidarity, as can be seen from the survey under consideration at the 12th European Council. Standing Committee. This is certainly a problem linked to health expenditure, which is currently insufficient to ensure universality. More and more, in fact, there is the phenomenon of the abandonment of care by a growing population. More and more we see unfair health, that is not equal in the national territory, and more and more we undermine the constitutional dictation on the uniformity of the health treatment tout court. However, the draft law before us today contributes to the improvement of the safety of our National Health Service. There is no doubt that safety is achieved through prevention and risk management linked to the provision of health services and the appropriate use of structural, technological and organisational resources. It is reiterated in the text of the law that the prevention of risk concerns all health or socio-health structures, public or private, to which all personnel contribute, however and in any way operating. Introduced in the bill the figure of the guarantor for the right to health, identifying it with the Ombudsman, who assumes the task of verifying the validity and adequacy of the reports coming from the patient or from his delegate. The same Article 2, which provides for the presence of the Ombudsman, provides for the establishment of the Centre for the Management of Health Risk and Patient Safety, which has the task of collecting data on the risks and adverse events occurring in the structures and of transmitting them to the National Observatory, which is set up at the National Agency for Regional Health Services (Agenas) and which should be active - and here I ask a question - within three months, or ninety days, since the entry into force of this law. The House of Deputies had set a longer time, one hundred and eighty days, but I think it would be better to extend the time limit laid down in the draft law. I hope I am wrong, but I do not think that the timing for the adoption of guidelines containing good practice, given the composition of the committee to be drawn up, will lead to compliance with the deadlines. The Health Commission has done well to ensure that good welfare practices are used during the holiday period in relation to the adoption of guidelines and the publication of guidelines by the Higher Institute of Health. Important news is introduced in Article 6 with regard to the criminal liability of the operator of the health profession and of the structures that provide for the fulfilment of the guidelines as a parameter of assessment on the work of the doctor and of the same health structures. The introduction to Article 8 of the mandatory attempt to reconcile is another novelty provided for in the draft law, which could streamline the number of cases in the courts. The law provides for novelties on the conclusion of insurance and/or the use of similar measures for civil liability to third parties in the contractual form for socio-health and non-contractual structures for professionals. The extension of the guarantees (ten years before the conclusion of the insurance contract) we believe is hard work for public structures, but above all for private ones, especially of medium and small size. We hope, however, that this measure, in regulating insurance contracts, will lead to a reduction of insurance premiums that increasingly affect the costs of health facilities. Particularly interesting is the establishment of a Guarantee Fund for damages arising from health liability, which guarantees the patient in the cases provided for in this law for insolvency by insurance companies and also for possible liquidation. The system of compensation is introduced in relation to a table system which makes compensation fairer. In conclusion, this measure contributes to the overcoming of a part of the so-called defensive medicine which - as my colleague Mr D'Ambrosio Lettieri said earlier - leads to about 30,000 cases per year affecting health costs. Several improvements - as the rapporteur, Senator Bianco, said - have been tabled in this House and I believe that some of them can be accepted. Of course, we will base our vote in this House on these acceptances and on the behaviour of the rapporteur and the Government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u113	Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law I would like to make it clear that we are talking about provisions on professional responsibility, but I also think, and above all, of provisions on patient safety. I am so convinced that this design must focus above all on the safety of the patient that I will propose again, with an amendment, his inclusion in the title of the same bill. In this general debate there are above all two issues that I would like to address and on which I will focus. The first concerns the formulation of the guidelines and the second the risk management. In the preamble, it should be borne in mind that the guidelines have, first and foremost, a cultural orientation value for medical practitioners. They are instruments of help in the decisions of the doctor and not rules that must be applied in a determinist way. This approach may not fit perfectly with the legal vision of the judiciary's guidelines, but it is consistent with what is advocated in the Evidence-based medicine project, where the clinician is asked to find a synthesis between the results of scientific research and the valuable expectations and peculiarities of the patient in front of him. Many times we will face patients who do not have a single pathology on which to apply the guidelines perfectly. They are often polypathological patients, so we will have to decide on the prevailing guideline to follow. There are no guidelines that correspond to all the pathologies that the patient presents at that time. This certainly responds to a deep-rooted feeling among doctors, who are very concerned many times to be forced to adhere to binding norms and external intrusions into prescriptive autonomy. Let us also think of the harsh reactions that the so-called Lorenzin decree on appropriateness has given rise to. If between the objectives of government and parliament there is also to avoid a serious fracture with doctors, beyond anything in contrast to a theory, the international meaning of the guidelines is better taken into account. We must start with one main fact: the quality of the guidelines is certainly not guaranteed by the producers, it is certainly not guaranteed by the pharmaceutical companies and will certainly not be guaranteed even by the scientific societies. And even if these are authoritative subjects, this quality is fundamentally linked to the methodological rigour in the elaboration phase and, above all, to the governance of conflicts of interest that can influence the whole path, from formulation to clinical recommendations. We must also bear in mind that the Higher Institute of Health is assigned exclusively the role of supervisor and validation of the quality of the guidelines and their transparency. After these steps, the guidelines will be published on the website of the National System Guidelines (SNLG). All this said, the importance and potential role of the guidelines are directly linked to the quality of the methodology followed in their preparation. And one of the key points in their preparation lies precisely in their participation, and for this reason too the agencies and technical and independent bodies responsible for producing guidelines for the National Health Service in other countries involve multidisciplinary groups in the process of production, designation and also evaluation of the results obtained. They usually include representatives of professional orders, orders of doctors, pharmacists and experts in methodology with a proven experience in the production of guidelines; representatives of scientific societies and also of patient organisations and so-called caregivers, as well as other persons who may be affected by the problem under investigation. Therefore, the process of producing guidelines has in the independence of individual participants in the panel of extenders the main guarantee of quality of the final product. And the independence of these subjects from economic, political and religious interests must be guaranteed by a transparent and open path to every possible verification. At this point I want to enter into the speech related to professionalism and professional responsibility, which means many times also to elaborate and identify the most suitable tools both to evaluate what has been done, and to improve what needs to be done. This measure must have a long impact on the responsibility of the health profession, its protection and its sustainability. A health organisation is only able to ensure quality care in safety if it implements a risk management system, i.e. risk management. In a logic of loss prevention, the so-called loss prevention, risk management in a health organization is the key issue in the strategy of approach to enterprise risk management or in the provision of health services as a coherent response to the need for health, expressed or unexpressed, of citizens. This is why the risk management activities and those of the Claims Assessment Committee in a health organisation must be synergistic. In fact, if not all adverse events are sinister - requiring careful evaluation in order to prevent their recurrence - it is equally true that not all claims for compensation are technically justified, indeed most of them are not. However, the two analyses must lead to a continuous improvement in performance. As well as the activities of the Claims Assessment Committee, the risk management approach must also be systemic and systematic, providing for: the risk management phase, i.e. risk assessment; the risk evaluation phase, i.e. risk evolution; the planning and monitoring phase of the results; the phase of any adverse events occurring and, in this case, the re-evaluation of the process to identify any fault nodes. It is clear that the risk management activities, in order to understand the risk, must be designed with a cross-cutting and multidisciplinary management process, which allows health organisations to identify the dangers related to their own production and organizational processes and quantify the probability of an adverse event happening; design the barriers to the content of the risk and of such events and, finally, monitor the processes and related barriers designed to intercept critical situations, thus implementing the safety of the services provided to guarantee all. In practice, think of the importance of the appropriate management of informed consent, which must provide that the path of effective information to the citizen is not only transparent, but also achievable with a description of the intrinsic and extrinsic risks of a service. That is why I believe that documentation should allow traceability of all stages, both in terms of quality and quantity of information, so as to determine the provision of more and more secure care. In this way we could say that the bill under consideration, in addition to thinking about patient safety and risk management, really goes in the direction that all patients expect: it is to safeguard not only the doctor but also their health. [[Applause from Senator Bencini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u115	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cuomo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u116	Mr President, Mr Secretary-General, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this measure was adopted in the House last January and was radically modified in the Senate in the 12th century. Commission for some contradictions and legal illogicalities, as well as for some points on which there could be doubts about profiles of unconstitutionality. However, I believe that the text needs some action in order to improve certain aspects of it, and on them I have decided to table some amendments. The most important items are certainly those from 5 to 10. Predicting the dual nature of liability - contractual liability for the structure and extra contractual liability for the doctor - will inevitably affect state finance, given that with the current wording of the norm ASL will have to bear the full weight of the claims, not being able to obtain from the doctor - or rather, from his insurance - any contribution or participation precisely for the different title of liability for which they will have to be called to compensate for the damage. I will speak on the subject later with greater precision and detail. As regards the limit on compensation for damage, a reference has been made to the rules governing compensation for road traffic damage, although the assumption of health liability is different. In fact, that limit has reason to exist to calm down insurance premiums where there is an obligation for insurance to contract (which is not in this provision). Unlike what happens, therefore, in the health responsibility, the patient citizen does not suffer injury or dies as a result of an error determined by those who are responsible, instead, to guarantee his health. In view of this, it is not clear why compensation should be restricted by creating a franchise for the sole benefit of those responsible. A procedural condition, the one provided for in Article 8, which, in my view, is not only in conflict with some reforms of justice (which I shall investigate later), but also creating a difference of treatment between those (structures and doctors) who operate in the health sector compared to all other professional categories, but who could in fact create a denied justice in order to be able to act in court, as the injured parties will have to bear high costs only in order to obtain preventive technical advice aimed at conciliation. Similarly, the medical structures and doctors involved will have to bear the costs of their legal and technical defences, in order to try to reach a conciliation without having any certainty that the outcome of the consultation exists the economic conditions to be able to face a transaction, while the mediation that exists today costs only 48 euros, if within the limit of 250,000 euros, or 80 if it exceeds that limit, if it does not succeed the conciliation. I think that these issues should make us think, because the scope of this measure is probably getting out of the attention of fellow Members of Parliament, also because - let us speak with great honesty - the timetable for the last few weeks has been quite light. This is a measure that has a significant impact on patients, the sick and doctors who also have very, very important legal and economic implications. The provision of Article 8 of the draft law again complicates the principle of civil procedure, just four years after a reform had taken place, simplifying them, also with a view to the competitiveness of the civil justice system. Then I will speak, Mr Undersecretary and rapporteur, also on the subject of deflation related to conciliation, because not always the technicians of the Ministry of Justice are able to interpret the numbers for what they really are, besides the mathematical, arithmetic or algebraic affair, since behind every number, then, there are faces, people, suffering and discomfort. There is an economic problem related to mediation. I am very surprised, Mr Undersecretary and colleagues, because there was a great deal of debate about mediation when it was introduced and the Minister of the time, Minister Alfano, Minister of the Interior of this Government, raised the subject of mediation with a certain stir, while today, with this measure, it seems that this issue is being shelved. In the meantime, many structures and bodies that have invested in mediation in recent years will in some way be penalised by the rule that we are putting in place. I agree with the rapporteur, Mr De Filippo, and colleagues from the 12th The Commission and, in particular, the President have some wisdom and balance in reconciling the interests which are at stake, and of course I would like to hope that they will intervene in a real and concrete debate on the amendments that have been tabled. Some say that mediation has not done well, I am referring to the technicians of the Ministry: if this were to be true, it is certainly a consequence of the fact that if it had not been foreseen by law the compulsory participation of the parties would probably have had worse results. It would be sufficient to extend to mediation the provision of Article 8, which provides for the obligation to participate in the procedure laid down therein in order to resolve the matter upstream, just as it would be sufficient to leave the parties free to choose whether to opt for mediation or for the prior technical advice referred to in Article 696-a of the Code of Civil Procedure, a choice which can certainly be dictated by the conscious prediction that the instrument chosen may, in the concrete case, be the one best suited to the purpose of conciliation of the parties. As far as insurance is concerned, I would particularly like to address the rapporteur and the Undersecretary, after listening to the previous speakers. The insurance obligation for health-care companies and doctors has been provided for, but the related obligation to contract for insurance companies has not been foreseen, without which health-care companies and doctors will be at the mercy of insurance companies, which will set the rates according to their needs and economic conveniences. I do not wish, ladies and gentlemen, that involuntarily insurance companies were being polite. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia]] Unfortunately, it would not be the first time, if I think of some retromarces taken with amendments by the rapporteurs in the draft competition law, between the transition to the House and what will have to be done in the Senate. But this is another story, about which we will also be able to debate tariff measures and what Mezzogiorno we mean when we talk about inequalities and development. Here, in particular, I would like to address, always addressing my fellow senators, my colleague, Mr Bianco, for whom I have a deep esteem, and to the undersecretary De Filippo, to whom I have the same esteem, on the case related to contractual liability for health companies, public or private, and on non-contractual liability for the operator of the health profession, including benefits rendered in intramoenia, in agreement and through telemedicine. I believe that we all know what the implications of this are in terms of limitation and burden of proof. I don't want to repeat it, but the contract is ten years old, the non-contractual one is five years old. The 12th Commission, after a long round of hearings, made a number of amendments to the text, in particular by providing for paragraph 3 of Article 7 that the operator of the health profession is liable on a non-contractual basis, unless he has acted in the performance of a contractual obligation. Well, I'd like to make a little excursus about the concept of damages obligation. The compensation for damages in general, that is the typical rule that governs that anyone causing unjust damage to others is obliged to compensate for it, is the one referred to in Article 2043 of the Civil Code and is the classic one, that more or less everyone knows, of civil liability from road accidents. The element that distinguishes this kind of compensation obligation is that between those who cause the damage and those who suffer it there is, before the illegal fact, no kind of relationship and that the only expectation or obligation that exists between the future parts of the obligatory relationship that comes about as a result of the accident, is that the first one expects the drivers to comply with the road code, to make the classic example of the pedestrian who is invested or of those who suffer injury to the car accident, and the motorists are obliged to respect it and to drive with caution. This is non-contractual liability. Where, on the other hand, a written or verbal agreement is concluded between the parties, each party shall assume on itself an obligation which, in the case of an intellectual work provider, always consists of a service which one party renders to another in exchange for a counter-performance, usually sums of money. I had a long debate with the rapporteur, even before we began to discuss the measure in this Chamber, on the case law, on merit and on the case law, on how to adopt the type of obligation imposed on the doctor and on how to distinguish clearly the activity of the doctor, which is full of ethical and ethical content, from that of the motorist who, on the other hand, has only a general obligation to respect the road code. Better to say, the jurisprudence, of merit and of Cassation, has distinguished the kind of expectations that the patient has, knowing that he relies on a highly qualified professional such as a doctor, from those of the pedestrian or another motorist. The concept of trust drawn up by the jurisprudence, on which I insist and on which I have tabled an amendment that I hope will receive a careful evaluation, presupposes that the patient trusts the carer, an act which must follow a qualified performance of the operator the health profession that will be evaluated, therefore, a posteriori, not by the meter by which one evaluates the behaviour of a motorist, but by the one definitely more demanding that one agrees to a professional of quality, in the hands of which the protection of the health of the people is placed. I would like to conclude by hoping that, as the rapporteur, Senator Bianco, concluded, there will be a real desire in this House to discuss individual amendments on these parts of the measure - I have listened to the rapporteur and I will listen carefully to the Government's reply. This is also for clarification, because it is possible that the arguments that I am bringing to the attention of the Assembly are overcome by a jurisprudence that I do not know, by judgments that in some way have novelized the concepts of "extracontractual" and "contractual." However, I would like to hope that the examination of the amendments and a frank, fair and real debate in this House will certainly improve some aspects of this measure which I believe need more attention. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Aiello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u117	Mr President, after listening carefully to the expositions that preceded our speech, and especially after the White Senator's report, we will not go into legal matters (also because there are experts in this House), but we will try to briefly describe the split that has characterized the relationship between healthcare professionals and users, between doctors and patients, leading the whole system to extreme radicalisation. I am referring to a relationship that in the past represented the scaffolding of the entire health system and that has deteriorated so much over time that it has caused the whole national health system to go down and creak heavily. This is a crisis report, but has this crisis been caused by doctors and healthcare professionals or by users? Always crisis has been and crisis is still. The operators have progressively brought attention more to the pathology than to the patient, modifying in fact, precisely by virtue of the known vicissitudes that we have just represented, that is this enormous crack in the relationship, the clinical intentions and the way to dialogue with the patients. Over time there has been a feeling (and not only) that medicine had abjured itself from the primary role that it had to play, such as taking care of the patient, alleviating suffering, in short, all those attentions that have characterized and that should characterize the relationship between the doctor and the patient, progressively determining an increasing degree of dissatisfaction. This perhaps because of the high level of clinical technicalism that has made the role of the doctor less and less evident, because of the decrease of the doctor's charisma perhaps because of the high degree of fragmentation of knowledge, which has also resulted in an abbreviation of the visit as such and, therefore, of the intimate relationship between the doctor and the patient. We have thus reached the discomfort of alienity, the absence of empathy between the doctor and the patient, the growing distrust, resentment and hostility. Today, therefore, the relationship that we live is of suspicion, of disappointment on the part of the users, and - allow me - of frustration, of sense of impotence, of depression, of negativity and even of defeatism on the part of the health workers, especially on the part of the doctors, each with its good reasons. But how could the doctor or more generally the healthcare professional continue to guarantee that neutrality, that being free from decision-making prejudices, that calmness and listening ability that have always characterized this profession without having clinical points of reference and diagnostic-therapeutic paths well defined by guidelines in which to move and better interpret that ethic of care necessary and indispensable to guarantee trust and therapeutic success compatible with the sustainability of the system? Well, for this reason we believe that we have imagined, even with our modest contribution, a measure that allows to build confidence and generate hope, because without these essential and prodromic prerogatives, it would have been first of all the user to risk loneliness and then also the doctor and the operator in general, with the risk, at very short, that the entire system imploded inexorably. With these necessary premises, it became and became widespread conviction that once and for all it was necessary to address the problem of professional responsibility and solve it in a way, we say, reasonable, balanced and rigorous, to protect the users and the professional serenity of operators, as well as to safeguard the entire national health system. As has already been widely considered, discussions have begun, many hearings, hundreds of amendments have been tabled, many requests have been made from several quarters. And even if someone - in our modest, very clumsy judgment - has made public statements, saying that the amendments have been approved because there has been a meeting in the House of a single political party, we have not gone down on this, and this applies above all to those who, with a great spirit of sacrifice and humility, have participated in the interests of the competent Commission and of all the consultative committees, in the examination of the amendments and in the conclusion of the work. We have participated in this approval with the contribution of all the political forces present in the Health and Health Commission of the Senate of the Republic and have, in our opinion, brought to definition a good measure. It is precisely on the basis of this work that we would like to thank the rapporteur very much, for the amount of work he has done and for the patience he has put in place during the process, and the President and all his colleagues in the 12th session. Commission, which have expressed their competence on such a sensitive and sloppy subject. We would also like to thank Mr De Filippo, who has been constantly present in the Commission's work. It is a subject, as we said, which has seen many significant innovations introduced, which have made substantial changes to the text that came to our observation from the House, modifications that we consider important and extremely innovative and that, in our opinion, complement and complete the text arrived from the House. The draft law, at least for the aspects we have considered fundamental, focuses mainly on a publicity profile that concerns the criminal consequences of the medical act, even if the important innovations in the field of civil liability cannot be picked up. In our opinion, certainly the most interesting aspect will be the use not only of logic, but also, since it is a field of very high specialization, the aid of scientific information, which can make the operators and doctors understand on the one hand, and the operators of the law (of course fasts of scientific notions) on the other, who play different roles and antagonists in the discussion of the causes, if the events are really imputable not only to the health care that is accused. It is intuitive that in the field of responsibility the contribution of experts and CTU is fundamental, who can illustrate the scientific terms of the case under review. It is precisely from this point of view that we would like to recall how the text makes very important changes, in the sense of greater qualifying rigour in the assignment of tasks. The quality of the scientific approach, in fact, there is a singular need, especially today that we overcome the concept of good practices and make explicit reference to guidelines, regulated with particular precision, both as to the subjects entitled to issue them, and with reference to their updating and their accessibility. Also with regard to the guidelines, I would like briefly to make some clarity, at least with regard to our evaluation method, always in a proactive sense. The guidelines are intended to guide health activity, especially medical activity. Now, the operator must always consider the concrete needs of the patient, having regard to the fact that sometimes the guidelines have an economic-management matrix and may conflict with some peculiar needs of the patient. Well, in the new article 5, not only have the subjects who contribute to the drafting of the guidelines been expanded, but a priority has also been established: the operator the healthcare profession will first use the guidelines and only in the alternative, in the absence of recommendations, will adhere to good clinical-assistance practices. So, it is here that compliance or non-compliance with the guidelines does not automatically determine or exclude the fault of health care. This is because the guidelines are a valid scientific aid for the operator, but do not weaken the autonomy of the professional in the therapeutic choices. Medical science is susceptible to many influences - the rapporteur knows this much better than we do - and it is often called upon to make choices with a high degree of subjectivity. During the drafting of this measure, we thought that perhaps the somewhat rigid formulation of the priorities to which health care must adhere could produce some sort of automatism so that if you do not observe the guidelines and good clinical-assistant practices, good practices do not apply to writing down the behaviour adopted. Only the most serious cases should be relegated to criminal law, even if illegality with regard to malpractice is removed in the text, and the claims relating to medical professional responsibility should be put back to the exquisitely civil judgment, with the cautious insurance of the case (as in many respects has been done), the disputes relating to medical professional responsibility. We have worked hard to improve this provision and are strongly convinced that we are bringing home a good measure. [[Applause from the AP groups (NCD-UDC) and PD and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u118	Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u119	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall make a very brief speech on a measure which has many positive aspects. I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and all the members of the Health Commission, but also the other Commissions, in particular the Justice Commission, as well as the Secretary of State for Health, for the contribution they have made to achieving at this time a measure which I consider to be of great balance and of great help in improving assistance to citizens. This is a rule that was lacking and does not take up issues already contained in the previous legislation; it therefore makes a step forward in relation to the general discipline of the functioning of our health system. It is also the result of a continuous collaboration and confrontation between the House and the Senate: if I may say, this case is an example of virtuous bicameralism. The House, to which our thanks go, has produced a first document that has unpacked the essentials and then allowed the Senate, especially the Health Commission, to deepen some issues that had been defined in the House in a less precise way. I would like to make a few points. In particular, I would like to stress that this is a measure which must not be interpreted as solely intended to protect the pursuit of the profession by health professionals. That is one aspect; but the most important thing I care about is the fact that it is intended to protect the right of citizens to receive health benefits in case of need, for many reasons. For the first time a guarantor is appointed for the right to health; this is very important - and I would like to stress this to the representative of the Government - because not only is the guarantor mentioned for the right to health with regard to this measure, but also in general terms, even with regard to any malfunctioning that the organisation of health services may entail towards a citizen who needs to be taken care of. We know that monitoring of levels of assistance (which is something else, but which should be one of the many tools that allows us to observe how citizens' rights are respected) is to be retrained. For a long time the legislation has provided for the monitoring system to be retrained, including many indicators that are currently missing and we are waiting for the monitoring system to be checked and rehabilitated. In the meantime, citizens know, with regard to their right, that they have one more element, in case there are any malfunctions, in order to make the request for knowledge and information and also to report any malfunctions. Secondly, the measure states that risk and safety management centres must be set up. This is another important issue, because what we are dealing with here is the risk associated with the exercise of health professions and the risk of adverse events. In a world that knows all the risks that are taking place in such a complex sector as health care, some health companies and regions have already started setting up centres to manage this risk. The measure under consideration states that all regions must have it, because the risks must be known, evaluated and managed with appropriate tools. This Centre will produce very useful data for all purposes and I believe that this is a very important result. There is also an observatory that must not be limited to observing, because we know how many observers there are in Italy and how often they simply observe things that can be easily observed. The Centre is expected to observe not only cases of complaint but also the adverse events that occur and, above all, to produce guidelines for risk prevention and management and also for the training of operators, which is very important, on which the effectiveness of the measure may depend. Finally, I would like to mention the issue of guidelines, on which much debate has taken place and on which many reflections have been made. I find that the current solution is better than that produced in the House of Deputies, thanks to the long reflections made and shared with colleagues from the other branch of Parliament. In particular, the national system of guidelines is resumed, which is in the hands of the Higher Institute of Health, which, par excellence, has in itself the qualifications necessary to carry out this role. It refers to the procedure that was initially defined in 1996 by Law No 662 and gradually amended and implemented. Unfortunately, this procedure has been followed very little and, especially in recent years, it has remained somewhat dormant. Producing the guidelines - we know, it has already been said - is not so easy and, therefore, we must build the strength, reputation, authority and independence of all those who will collaborate in this activity. I would like to highlight one aspect: the fact that guidelines are also produced and developed by public administrations (by all research authorities and agencies and not only by scientific societies) is a fundamental step that has been taken with the new text of the measure. Scientific societies can have a very important task, but we know that the risk of distortions linked to possible conflicts of interest is not behind the door, but right ahead. This, however, concerns not only scientific societies, but also all other institutions, with respect to which we must ensure that the guidelines are produced, promoted and coordinated by a public authority, which I hope will be the Higher Institute of Health, on the basis of the best scientific evidence and with the knowledge that, once defined, they will then have to be continuously updated. We are therefore putting in place who will have to coordinate and then disseminate these lines a huge work. We must be aware that the guidelines will not be produced quickly; fortunately, good practices are also indicated and it is also said that exceptions are the specifics of the concrete case, so there is no obligation and no loss of autonomy of the professional, who adheres to the guidelines, important to ensure appropriateness, but then he must always reason in science and conscience. I would like to make one final point: it is essential to ask for insurance cover. We cannot predict how the insurance market will react right now. We can only make a few assumptions. Of course, we know that it is an oligopolistic insurance market that will therefore try to exploit all the dominant positions it has on the market, but we certainly cannot foresee different solutions. We must be able to give public administration, health companies and regions the strength to negotiate contracts and define them in all their characteristics, in order to take account first of all of the interests of the citizen and of the protection that we must guarantee to the professional. It is precisely for this reason that I regret Article 18, which contains the clause of financial invariance: we know very well that, if this rule is implemented in a timely manner, it will benefit the health system over time, because it will free us of all the overconsumption of benefits that very often is proposed simply because of the fears of defensive medicine, but we also know that in the short term, for one or two years, these savings will not be there, but there will be more burdens. Unfortunately, we know that we have not been able to add any specific funding to this measure. We hope that the budget law, which has already guaranteed an increase of two billion euros for the health system, will maintain this increased funding until the end of its parliamentary path, that there are no spending reviews on this and that, therefore, companies that will be able to bear the greatest burdens immediately should not be further plagued by restrictions that, in the perspective, can improve the functioning of the system. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u120	Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u123	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr President, on the web weekend, the precautionary measures orders resulting from the Amalgam investigation of the prosecutors of Rome and Genoa (the Third Pass issue, a well-known subject, unfortunately) were published. From the intercepts reported there it is stated that the vice prefect of Alexandria would have informed the Consortium fast integrated links (COCIV) on the ongoing investigation. In addition, we all remember the previous intercepts, in which the prefect, again of Alexandria, for the issues related to the anti-mafia norms on the Third Pass, telephoned Incalza to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, also he then ended up in prison. These facts are very serious. Minister Alfano must protect the good image of the territorial offices of the Government and carry out all those acts aimed at ensuring that prefectures are an example of legality and mirrored good repute. That is why it is necessary for it to proceed with the immediate suspension of the vice prefect of Alexandria and the immediate transfer to another seat of the prefect Tafuri. From the investigations there are particular disturbing about the execution of the works of this infrastructure: there is talk of concrete similar to water, similar to glue, etc. There are, among other things, reports of some problems in the tunnels as in Pontedecimo, Genoa, where it seems that the vault is fast and furying but with too much distance between one centimeter and the other and that this already causes the first concrete detachments from the vaults. I repeat that the safety of workers and the goodness of manufactured goods must be protected. We therefore call for the immediate suspension of work on the construction sites indicted by the latest wave of arrests and the establishment of a technical committee that controls every building, every cast of cement, centimeter by centimeter, in search of any anomalies. We must carry out the proper checks and not go on like a train - which will probably never pass from there - at all costs. It would be too easy, afterward, to cry when the dead are there. I am going to ask two questions, one to the Ministry of the Interior and one to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, to have answers on these matters and to urge the relevant Ministers to take immediate action to put an end to this unacceptable situation. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u126	LAI (PD). Mr President, with this speech at the end of the sitting, we continue today in the Senate, a relay with which, together with many senators and many senators, we remember every woman who is killed at the hands of a man to whom she is or has been linked by a loving relationship. We will do so as long as it is necessary to remind Parliament and our country of the urgency of curbing violence against women: all kinds of violence, up to the most dramatic extreme, which involves the deprivation of life. We cannot and do not want to get used to this. In Sassari a woman, Anna Doppiu, sixty-four years old, was savagely beaten by her husband, who then burned her still alive. She had not felt the need to denounce her husband, from whom she suffered violence and from whom she had, moreover, decided to separate herself. On November 12, in Poggibonsi, in the province of Siena, another woman, Ionela Sandu was murdered in a barbaric way by her partner, by the man with whom she had a sentimental relationship, after a quarrel. She was hit by a truck driven by the man with whom she was having this affair. The man is now under arrest on the charge of voluntary murder. This brings to 26 the women we have remembered in this relay, which began only on 30 June. There are many people who in Sassari, last Saturday, participated in a flash mob in which were remembered, in addition to Anna, the 98 women victims of feminicide in 2016, as well as many people who in Siena, in these days, participated in the torchlight in memory of Ionela. ISTAT informs us that in Italy a woman is killed every 2.2 days. 46.3 percent of the women killed die at the hands of his companion. The dramatic bulletin is even more serious because physical and sexual violence has increased further and cases of assisted violence are also growing. As the cases of Anna and Ionela also show, feminicide is almost always the ultimate result of a series of long-standing violent behaviors. It is not only a matter of attention and awareness that we are facing a problem that needs to be tackled decisively, but also of giving protection, support, answers and concrete aid to all women who live in situations of potential danger. It is necessary to act with severity and constant monitoring of all situations at risk, so as not to allow them to disappear. Women and men together can stop this carnage. They can do this by demanding the strict application of regulations, but also by having the strength to trigger that change of pace, first of all cultural, that allows to support and make live gender equality everywhere, in every sector, to promote the education of children, in the school and family, to respect the body of women, together with the fact that daughters and young women must find the strength to have more respect for themselves and for their body, denouncing violence from the first almost imperceptible moves, without ever justifying it. The company and the institutions must be able to respond immediately to the slightest request for aid and assistance. We need an authentically equal democracy that asserts rights, to break down a culture that is still patriarchal, to prevent, to defeat sexual stereotypes and prejudices, to ensure freedom and autonomy of choice in the life path of women. Let us make our appeal with conviction. An appeal to the Minister for Equal Opportunities and to the Government everything: the directing booth constantly verify the application, the merits and the limits of Law No 119 of 2013 and, above all, give full and accurate implementation of the plan against violence. An appeal to the media: stop justifying murderers and blaming women. An appeal to the country, men and women: 160 women killed every year, we can no longer, all together, accept this massacre. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u129	TURANO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, I want to go back in about a week's time and relive with you the election of Donald Trump as President of the United States of America, meanwhile, to offer him the best wishes for good work on behalf of the Italians resident in the United States and, then, to focus attention on one particular fact. Also in Italy, as well as in the United States, Trump's election was received with too much amazement by the most influential press. Italian televisions for months have explained how all the polls focused unequivocally on Hillary Clinton's victory, a bit like the main American broadcasters did in the last month of the election campaign, albeit with a slightly more cautious tone than they read and seen in Italy. The media should not even think about polls. Instead, they should inform, really explain the situation, rather than try to influence the vote and public opinion. As an American, I personally lived in the presidential elections of 8 November and, once again, I was proud to have contributed with my vote to the exercise of democracy, because the vote of the people is a right and it is always the fruit of democracy. On the streets of major American cities the political thermometer marked temperatures different from those recorded by pollists and opinionists, too busy chasing the audience rather than listening to people. The vote, on the other hand, does not forgive; it is not the result of assumptions, but it is the realization of an ideal, of a protest or of the simple desire to change. When you think too much about politics and you are led to believe that occupying television spaces and newspaper pages can radically change people's beliefs, you often go to the wall of defeat. We who make politics and represent the people have a duty to inform and listen to those who vote for us. Before we try to change the country, we should understand how our people would want the country of the future. Let us remember that, because in a few days all of us will participate in another great and extraordinary exercise of democracy: the constitutional referendum. The polls say a lot and nothing. The answers will be given by the voters and we hope to have understood well their demands and their thoughts. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u130	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-723.ana.u131	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 16 November, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.55 p.m.
