ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 1 August.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.40).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u8	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a violent earthquake in the night between 23 and 24 August has devastated some parts of central Italy hit, in particular, the localities of Amatrice, Accumoli, Arquata and Pescara del Tronto. Italy as a whole has joined in pain, in mourning the impressive number of victims and in anxiety about the fate of the wounded and the people trapped under the rubble. The sad record of this tragic calamity shows almost 300 deaths to date, including many children, about 400 injured hospitalized, more than 4,500 displaced: numbers that make up a dramatic picture of prematurely interrupted existences, broken childhoods, torn families, absurdly vanished projects and dreams of life, countries and villages overwhelmed by the devastating force of nature. In addition to the heavy tribute of human lives, the damage to a historical, artistic and urban heritage of great value, an important part of our identity and the cultural traditions of the country, contribute to increasing our pain. In the moment of tragedy and pain the extraordinary and meritorious commitment of civil protection workers, firemen, the Red Cross, the Alpine Rescue, the Armed Forces, the Forces of Order, the medical-hospital structures and many, many volunteers has shone. To all those who are still struggling to do their utmost in the relief and assistance work go the profound and sincere praise and gratitude of the institutions and of the entire Italian people. They are undoubtedly an example of that better Italy, capable of mobilizing in the face of emergencies, of rushing to the rescue of the suffering, providing unparalleled models of self-denial and spirit of brotherhood. It was a real contest of solidarity that was witnessed in the hours and days immediately following the earthquake, with many people in line in hospitals to donate blood or engaged to offer spontaneous support and basic necessities. The most beautiful symbol of the rebirth of the affected territories was when, this morning, the bell rang for the beginning of the new school year in Amatrice. [[Applause.]] However, the experts' opinion that a calamitous event of this magnitude would not have had such dramatic effects in terms of human lives and devastation if more careful planning had been carried out over the years in the use of soil and in the design of public and private buildings that were conscientious and respectful of existing laws. It will certainly be up to the competent authorities to ascertain the responsibilities associated with non-compliance with procurement, design, construction and adaptation regulations, particularly with regard to public buildings. At the same time, all institutions are called to concert their action to ensure that the reconstruction work is carried out in scrupulous compliance with the current anti-seismic norms. It is also necessary to respond to the legitimate and justified demands of the administrators and the citizens involved, so that reconstruction tends as far as possible to the gradual and safe restoration of the original urban fabric and of the communities of which it belongs. We must revive the affected countries because they are the reference point for the lives of so many people, a reference point that must not be erased, but recovered and passed on to future generations, with its heritage of memories and traditions. Parliament, in constant dialogue with the Government and with the territorial institutions concerned, will therefore be called, not only to adopt every legislative measure functional to reconstruction, but also to constantly monitor its effectiveness and its timing of implementation, starting with the preparation of temporary housing for displaced populations and all the infrastructure necessary for the resumption of economic and social activities. In renewing the deep condolences of the Senate of the Republic for the victims and in expressing a feeling of sincere closeness to the wounded, displaced people and all the families affected, I invite the Assembly to observe a minute's recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u11	Tarquinio (CoR). Members of the Government, unfortunately we are at yet another manifestation of national condolences. We do not want to exploit anything at all: the tragedy is the last of a long series, but what has happened in the past, in addition to resounding errors, has left us something important. It has left us with an extremely efficient Civil Protection, a world of exceptional volunteering, the self-denial and professionalism of the Italian Fire Departments, the Police, the Carabinieri and the Army. Yet, all this will do nothing if we do not learn definitively the lesson from what has been the past; without demagogy, without reasons, without asking for investigations and super investigations (that is what the judiciary does; it is its task). All our energies and those of the Government must be destined simply to solve the immediate problems of these people, who ask to stay at home, to continue to live where the previous generations lived. We must do everything in our power to speed things up. I take advantage of the presence of Minister Delrio to ask him to restore first of all the viability. The military genius has already shown what he can do. In other nations, as in Japan, there are also roads of 5-6 kilometers - think of the disaster of the nuclear power plant caused by the earthquake - within fifteen to twenty days. Viability is the first problem for these people, to reach the various fractions it is necessary to solve it not in Bible times and at Bible costs, but as it must be done, in terms of seriousness. On the part of all of us, and first of all of the information, we devote ourselves to a continuous awareness and not to imagine how to arrest a mayor or another mayor today: that is the task of the judiciary. If there are any faults and responsibilities, the judiciary will verify them. Let us direct all our commitment, the commitment of the Government and this House to ensure that these people seriously have the answers and that they have them as soon as possible. It can be done: Japan has done it, it has been done in other countries. Italy has nothing to learn from anyone in terms of technicians, operators and equipment. This is the first requirement. Those people are asking to stay at home as soon as possible and the conditions must be created for this to happen. If this is not done it will become the usual, old story: we will see each other again, unfortunately - I hope not; but it certainly does not depend on me or on us - the next earthquake, always repeating the same things. We must act without demagogy. It cannot simply be said that everything has fallen, President: let us forget that the vast majority of public buildings and schools in this country date back to sixty, seventy, eighty years. Therefore, the assessment to be made is whether to take them down or, if possible, restore them in terms of seriousness and anti-seismic efficiency. They are not chatter; it is a cyclopean work that must be done avoiding all sorts of demagogy, because if someone wants to get into demagogy or make electoral ads of government or minority, he is wrong. People's problems, Italy's problems are not played. We as Conservatives and Reformists will put all our commitment and willingness; we will press the Assembly and the Government to talk about this situation, President, every fifteen days. We want to know what we're doing. I offer you a real invitation: do not exclude the mayors; they are the first actors, together with the population, compared to what must happen. They must be involved; they must be able to say theirs, they cannot be excluded; they must be the first to be responsible for what is done and what is not done. We don't focus because we're wrong; we focus by delegation, control, we're on the piece, through all our institutions, our ministries, civil protection. We control, but we are not obsessive, and let's free ourselves from bureaucratic laces and laces that often block works and create problems. That is the reality. We give freedom to the citizen of Amatrice who has the financial means of strengthening and fixing the house without waiting for someone to give him permission; we give directions on everything to do. This is what we expect: inactivity, reality. Talks and utopias bring you time. It is the time of the real and immediate answers, we have all the means and possibilities to do so. As for the generosity of the Italian people, up to this point we all ignore the dimension of voluntary aid; I therefore hope that it will be given at least to the mayors, who are responsible for management; then there is the encomium. The firefighters, who cannot yet be so few, so poorly paid and so badly framed (it is the real data), have given yet another proof, like all the police and police forces, of how reliable they are for the country. That's the real thing. We give real answers. On this we await the Government, on this we await the whole House, because it is a problem that concerns the whole House. We do not call ourselves out: we are the first responsible if we do not know how to control. We will propose that every fifteen days we discuss the situation of the earthquake crater and that the government come to respond and update us. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u14	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the North League also joins and participates in this commemoration in memory of the victims of the earthquake that hit Central Italy heavily on 24 August in four regions, particularly in Lazio and Marche. The earthquake budget is dramatic and is almost 300 dead, all recorded in three countries: Amatrice (the most impressed), Accumoli and Arquata del Tronto. It is a heavy budget, similar to that of the Eagle earthquake of April 6, 2009, which occurred almost at the same time, when 309 people lost their lives. The strong earthquake has also inevitably produced hundreds of wounded, the destruction of the historical centers and many hamlets of these three countries (among them Pescara del Tronto, completely razed to the ground), the destruction of the historical-cultural heritage, as well as having created damage in other centers of Umbria and Abruzzo and consequences also on the economic, agricultural and tourism sector in particular. At today's date there are almost 4,000 people assisted especially in tent camps and facilities set up for the purpose or at hotels: almost 1,000 in Lazio, over 1,700 in Marche, 800 in Umbria and almost 300 in Abruzzo. With Mr Candiani at the end of August we went to the places of the earthquake to understand the situation and especially the needs of these communities. We have spoken with the citizens, with the rescuers and above all with the three mayors who must be the pivot of reconstruction. On the faces of people we have found a lot of suffering, but also a lot of dignity, desire to start again and to rebuild your home and your environment. For the post earthquake I would like to stress that, unlike the earthquake of L'Aquila, in particular there are two aspects that raise concern: the first is represented by the low temperatures that have already been recorded, especially at night, despite the winter is still distant, given the altitude of the affected territories, and that will test the people assisted in the tent camps; the second is given by the extended distribution of the earthquake zones, which presupposes a more demanding logistics for assistance and reconstruction. Only between Amatrice, Accumoli and Arquata are we talking about 100 hamlets on an area of more than 350 square kilometers, each with houses where the affected residents want - we rightly say - to stay even in a tent. Let us not forget Norcia and Valnerina. The Parliamentary Group of the North League renews its thanks to all those who, from the first moment, have worked hard to assist the affected populations: the men of Civil Protection and Fire Departments, the women and men of the rescue of the Italian Red Cross and ANPAS, those of the Forces of the Order, the Alpines, the many volunteers who have made themselves available to help alleviate the problems; the hundreds of technicians, geometries and engineers who are running to verify the static and safety conditions of the houses and public buildings for the actibility. Thanks also go to the generosity of millions of Italians who have mobilized themselves for the fundraising and genres of first necessity, risking even to send in tilt the logistics. Obviously the Group of the North League expresses sentiments of condolence to all the family members of the victims and is close to the affected people who have lost their homes, their factories, their affections. The Group of the North League hopes that the Government and Parliament will without delay vary measures that can make the post-emergency and reconstruction phases transparent, rapid and effective, with appropriate tax measures and economic certainty in compensation to people, families and businesses that have lost everything. Of course, it will also follow the thinking on prevention. The League on these points will be vigilant, will present serious proposals and will "stay tight" the Government. We do not want political speculation and unnecessary Ministers' walkways, which risk being a mockery, to the detriment of people who have already suffered too much. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u17	Mr Iurlaro (AL-A). Mr President, remembering today the terrible earthquake that struck Central Italy last 24 August takes on a particularly significant significance, in the light of the efforts made to ensure that the necessary works were carried out in time so that the school could resume also for the children of those municipalities, literally devastated by the earthquake. This is a very important event, which also repays the efforts made by all those who have worked to ensure that, even in Amatrice, the lessons could be shared today. This commitment and dedication are the representation of that spirit that makes our country great and ready to unceasingly tighten around those who need it. It has been seen, even in this circumstance, from the very first moment. This was demonstrated by the work carried out by volunteers, the Forces of Order, the Fire Department, the Civil Protection and all those who, even in private form, have felt to make their contribution to the populations affected by this catastrophic event. To learn that the volunteers in the areas affected by the earthquake were many more than what they actually needed was a matter of pride for me and it was for all Italians. This is an example of concrete national solidarity, which has also found the right dimension in our institutions, which have univocally mobilized themselves to give those definite and immediate answers, which it was right to provide from the first moment to those who found themselves, within one night, with nothing more than what they had built over the years. This cohesion has left no room for exploitation or controversy and has certainly facilitated the setting up of concrete measures in order to put a stop to the most immediate emergency situation. Now, however, this first phase must be definitively archived, in order to move on to a later phase, which has its effects in the long term. It is necessary to speed up as much time as possible in finding those necessary resources no longer exclusively to face the post-earthquake phase, but to overcome it in a more or less definitive way. Insisting on Europe's demand for greater flexibility to cope with the emergency properly is certainly an important first step. That same spirit, which animated the Italians, should also encourage solidarity and cohesion among the other countries of the Union. It would be a great and concrete example of that "Europeanist spirit," which is so much talked about, but which all too often fails to reveal itself in everyday life. Then there is another aspect that must be put in the foreground, always in an exquisitely constructive and not controversial perspective: that of prevention. Many historic centers of the Italian municipalities are at seismic risk. These are areas that belong to our cultural heritage, which must certainly be safeguarded, which makes, for example, an ungenerous comparison with Japan and with the anti-seismic infrastructures built there. At the same time, however, these risk centres must be secured, while preserving their historical value. For example, Turkey, where in order to cope with the poor conditions of poor housing, has been temporarily placed in rented houses the inhabitants of the houses that need to comply with the regulations. It is necessary to start immediately with a plan for the safety of buildings at risk also in Italy. This is not an easy operation, but it must certainly be organized quickly, because on the table there is the safety of the Italians. And this is all the more true if we think about public buildings and schools or the accommodation facilities of a very young audience in particular. Security is a right for citizens, to which the State has a duty to comply. The wish of the Alleanza Liberalpopolare-Autonomie Group is therefore that, already in the course of the work on the law of stability, as had been agreed by several parties, the most urgent actions to be carried out and the resources necessary for their implementation be effectively identified.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u20	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, on behalf of the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE, I express our solidarity with the tragedy that has affected the communities of central Italy, a tragedy that has caused a pain for the people who are no longer there, for those who today mourn their loved ones and who must find the strength to rise up and to return to life. It is in situations like this that institutions and the whole country must give the best of themselves. Too many times in republican history, around such serious tragedies, shame has been united: shame for those who speculated or delayed the work, for the waste, for the inflated contracts, for the trail of misconceptions and corruption that they have generated. Luckily, it wasn't always like that. There have also been important pages in which institutions and politics in general have shown great responsibility, self-denial and a spirit of service. Today the citizens of Amatrice and the other municipalities affected by the earthquake, all Italians and Italians look carefully at how institutions will work for reconstruction, to give in the immediate living conditions acceptable, to reconnect the nodes of the social and economic fabric. And they do so with the eyes of those who, in these weeks, have written moving pages of deep solidarity and closeness, through the fundraising, the sending of basic necessities, the work on the territory of voluntary networks and civil protection teams throughout Italy, which, a few hours after the tragedy, have flocked to lend the first relief. Today, and I say it with a bit of pride, after only fourteen days of work, the children of Amatrice can start the school year thanks to the prefabricated built by the Autonomous Province of Trento, which this morning were inaugurated by the Minister Giannini and the president of the Province Ugo Rossi, who for the occasion brought to the children of Amatrice the drawings and gifts of the children of Trentino. Our Civil Protection was among the first to rush to assist the survivors and contribute to the recovery operations of the victims' bodies. I would like to thank all the workers and volunteers here in this House, just as I thank, on behalf of all the Trentino people, all those who in recent weeks have told about a country that, in difficult times, knows how to compact itself in a single second around the values of solidarity, friendship and brotherhood. The speed at which the intervention of Trentino was possible, both in the reconstruction of the school and in the activation of civil protection, in order to reach the immediate activation of the solidarity fund to gather new resources for specific reconstruction projects, managed directly by the Province, also allows us to understand what our autonomy is: a solidarity land like many others, certainly, but above all a model of government that allows the community to best express this vocation, which will continue to do its part, as well as the national government is called to do it. We agree with President Renzi on the need for an extraordinary plan around which all political and social forces can be found, without distinction. Alongside these resources, incentives to private actors and investment appear to be crucial. In this perspective, both simplification measures and the strengthening and enlargement of tax incentives, which are additional for example to ecobonus, adapted to the anti-seismic restructuring objectives, have a key role to play. Data on anti-seismic action and anti-seismic prevention measures are a structural and direct point, if we think that the benefits are estimated in an average of a saving of four euros of costs for reconstruction for each euro invested in prevention; incentives that are flexible and therefore differentiated in relation to different types and that require in the first place a serious census of situations at risk and with the priority given to the safety of schools and hospitals. The central role must be given to the mayors of the communities concerned, in the definition of an organic plan of intervention, with the idea that a system of public-private cooperation based on fiscal credits should not be built (a model applied to the Eagle and proved completely wrong), but through light yards, within a framework of coordination, with a fundamental role of the Deposit and Loan Fund and an assessment of the costs entrusted to local authorities, already experienced in Emilia Romagna, and with a central role of the Anti-corruption Supervisory Authority. We share what the senator for life and colleague of our Group, Renzo Piano, said about the overall meaning of the interventions. We need to be aware of the need to adopt policies that will affect the next generations and in which the current emergency phase is conceived as a problem... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u23	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, today we are taking part in the commemoration of 296 people, women, men and children, who died twenty days ago under the rubble of their homes, killed by the earthquake that struck Amatrice, Accumoli, Arquata, Pescara del Tronto and many neighbouring areas in central Italy between 23 and 24 August. Our pain and our mourning are deep. Hundreds of other people were injured. Thousands are waiting today for winter without a house. We are close to them and we want to express our solidarity, also concretely, as we tried to do in the first hours after the earthquake, entrusting our solidarity, not only to words and messages, although sincere, but also to concrete gestures. Just as it was concrete and unparalleled the work of the volunteers of Civil Protection, the fire department, the Army, the Forces of Order and dozens and dozens of volunteers, whom we would like to thank here. Just as great was the solidarity expressed by millions of Italians, immediately, in the first hours after the tragedy. It is said that earthquakes cannot be predicted, but we must say that this is only partly true. We cannot predict the day, the time and the precise place, but we are all aware of the areas at greatest risk, those where it would have been necessary and urgent to intervene in advance. The area hit on August 24 was one of those at very high seismic risk, on which it would have had to intervene to shelter them without waiting for the tragedy to occur. But it has not been so, as for many other parts of Italy. It is said that natural disasters cannot be defended, but even this is only partly true: indeed, in a very small part. In other areas of the world at high seismic risk we know that buildings have resisted and are able to resist. Of course, our territory and our villages are different in terms of urban complexity and history. But it was possible, indeed it would have been necessary (and we will now see how it will be reconstructed) to intervene differently. We must not ignore, because otherwise we do not say the things as they are, what happened in our villages, especially in the Apennines. It was a real tsunami, often the result of the inculturation of the Sixties and Seventies, of renovations made without considering and taking into account the anti-seismic norms, with stone houses covered with reinforced concrete roofs. All this has happened and all this is what we will have to bear in mind in order to face the work of reconstruction. Today, the priority and absolute urgency is to give displaced persons a roof as soon as possible. The seven months planned - as we have said and repeat - seem to us too long a time; perhaps it can be shortened, especially on the threshold of winter. We need to do this quickly and start the reconstruction plan immediately. We have made our proposals as clearly as possible: we must continue the discussion on how to start the reconstruction work. We have put forward a precise proposal: the allocation, for example, of half of the fund for the inevitable needs of the Presidency of the Council to deal with the emergency in the earthquake areas and immediately start a serious reconstruction work. We can no longer be content with ex post interventions. Too many times we have had to commemorate the victims of some misfortune and tragedy. Too many times we have repeated that we could, if we did not avoid them, at least minimize their consequences. It is time to really do this, it is time to implement a real Copernican revolution: profoundly change the cultural and design system and start - I see here Minister Delrio - a great plan for the safety of buildings and territory, a plan certainly ten years, based on public interventions, tax deductions, new technologies, training of operators, which includes not only the renovation of houses and buildings, but also the safety of our territory. I remember that in Italy 60% of buildings date from before the entry into force of the safety regulations of 1974 and even those built after have often ignored these standards, as unfortunately many cases of buildings hit by the earthquake tragically confirm. Today is the day of sadness, of mourning for the dead and of solidarity with the wounded and displaced but it must be - President, I say this to all of us and to the Government - also the day of seriousness and precise commitments if we do not want to find ourselves, in the near future, here again to mourn other deaths and in front of other tragedies. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u26	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after yet another tragedy and the moments of pain that have struck the Italian people, the many calls for common responsibility need concrete and immediate answers. The whole country has embraced a great embrace of solidarity around the affected populations. The whole society and the machine of relief, as always, have responded in an excellent way mobilizing human resources, instrumental and economic that only generous peoples like the Italian can guarantee. I therefore take this opportunity to thank the local authorities, the Civil Protection, the fire department, the police forces and the Rome Capital Police Corps, the Armed Forces and the volunteers, for the commitment and dedication shown in the rescue work, each with different roles and tasks but all animated by a sincere spirit of solidarity and community. It is now up to the institutions to give the most important answer. The answer will be very effective if the word "prevention" is placed at the centre of any project or campaign. But that's no longer a word used for extemporaneous commercials and then locked in a drawer. Prevention means investing money, many unfortunately due to the delay accumulated by our country, to ensure a real anti-seismic adaptation of the building works, first of all those found in the territorial bands at the highest seismic risk. Prevention requires a cartoon mapping of existing buildings in such a way as to build a file of the building, a kind of identity card of the building. There are over 900,000 housing buildings located in the highest risk areas and about 93 billion is the estimated cost. To date, voluntary seismic adjustment has been focused on the deduction of 65% for anti-seismic works, for the time being in force until 31 December 2016, for the first houses and productive buildings that fall back in the seismic zones of high danger. This measure, Minister, will certainly be useful, will have to be strengthened and extended, but it will not remain the only action put in place as a response to years of delay. We must give a serious and adequate response and we owe it not only to the victims of Amatrice and Central Italy, but to all the victims of the past events of calamitous, from Belice to Irpinia, from Umbria to Aquila and Emilia, to all those who after such events have not only lost loved ones but have seen their homes and their countries fall apart; territories and populations that today, even 48 years away, Minister, await a response and the closure of this dramatic parenthesis of their lives. Fundamental, as much as prevention, is now the stage of reconstruction: the institutions involved in this long and complicated process must work to ensure that it is serious and all the affected centres return to see the light where they are sinking. Only in this way will the strength of these silent communities not be dispersed, only so that one day the bells will be able to return to the party. Symbol of reconstruction can be the primary school of Amatrice: the Civil Protection of Trento has built in record time a modular building that has allowed more than two hundred children to start the school year on time. Now all schoolchildren who in other countries will be forced to return to prefabricated classes, tents and equipped facilities will also have to receive similar attention. The attention and proximity to the populations in the long term will be one of the decisive factors for the rebirth. The spotlight will not only have to light up during institutional visits, but will have to ensure timely information and close supervision of the progress of the reconstruction phases. At the central level, Parliament, in agreement with the Government, must imagine measures and instruments to ensure that such tragedies do not recur again: we need the allocation of important resources, to be used according to effective criteria and with the coordinated supervision of local and central structures. The judiciary will also carry out all appropriate investigations to verify that the parameters in the construction of public buildings have been respected in the past. The Commissioner for Reconstruction is already working on the territory today, and he has been given a heavy task and a great responsibility. It is precisely the Commissioner who must be able to work quickly, in agreement with the representatives of the local institutions and without being hindered by bureaucracy. Only if everyone devotes all their energy to the task they have been given, will teamwork be able to return to the affected populations a new normality and we can say that we have honored the memory of all those who have fallen into this terrible calamity and those who preceded it. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u29	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, over the last forty years Italian citizens have suffered several earthquakes: in 1976 in Friuli, with 990 victims; in 1980 in Irpinia, with 2,914 victims; in 2002 in San Giuliano di Puglia (we all remember it, with a buried class); in 2009 in L'Aquila, with 309 victims, and 20 and 29 May 2012 in Emilia with 27 victims. This sad but sad list should have taught something, not only in the management of the emergency, but also in the prevention and reduction of the effects of earthquakes. Instead it arrived on 24 August, Central Italy shook, with 296 victims and thousands of displaced people. Our institutions have focused on the emergency and for the first time in Italy we have seen a good organization: the arrivals of means and men were immediate and it is up to them our infinite gratitude. Their efficiency and competence is testified by the number of people extracted alive from those heaps of rubble, really impressive. But the earthquake also brought out embarrassing situations; many public buildings, such as the school and hospital of Amatrice, recently renovated, did not resist the shocks, highlighting how greed and personal interest have overshadowed the interest in the public good. I hope the reconstruction never again tells facts like that of the Municipality of Fossalto. For those who did not know, this small municipality of 1,400 souls of Molise was hit by the earthquake of San Giuliano di Puglia. The school had brilliantly overcome the earthquake, with a few small cracks on the plaster, but it was decided to increase its resistance, spending 473,000 euros. After two years of use, with lots of parties, teachers ask for anti-seismic certifications, which have never arrived. Consultants are called and it turns out that the school is no longer accessible and now, to bring it to the state of agility, it takes more than a million euros. I conclude by saying that many of the victims of the earthquake of August 24 could have been avoided, if only it had been built differently, if the right information had been given, giving priority to the principle of the common good. Instead, we are here to remember so many victims and take responsibility for the survivors, who have lost not only their home and their personal effects, but also very often their loved ones and also their sense of community. I hope that the closeness we so emphatically announce in this House will be witnessed by legislative measures that will allow them to return to normal life in a short time. And finally, I feel obliged to remember that the 5 Star Movement has always hoped for measures to secure the whole of Italy, in order to avoid such tragedies. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u32	CERONI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the participation of the Senate and the other offices of the State in the pain that struck the Marches for the immense tragedy is welcome. I attended the funeral in Ascoli Piceno, where you were also present, President. It was really heartbreaking to see 37 coffins lined up in that gym with relatives next door suffering. I think we owe a special thank you to Civil Protection, to the volunteers who have spent themselves in every way and to the Forces of Order, who have saved more than 60 people from the rubble. There is no doubt that this calamity has brought out a better and different organization than in the past, which we can appreciate. Three fire department in my country told me live about the rescue of the four-year-old girl, Giorgia Rinaldo. They also showed us the very exciting footage that shows how important a timely intervention on the site is. In this case, people, unaware of the danger, while the earth was still shaking, began to dig through the rubble. Mr President, I would like to make it clear to the Senate how much more serious this earthquake is than we can imagine. The affected municipalities are not only Amatrice, Accumoli and Arquata, who have paid a very high price in terms of human lives. This time Parliament must give an adequate response. We need simple procedures; we don't complicate life. I attended some meetings and I remained grounded in hearing that mayors should ask Civil Protection for timber to make a balustrade to secure a facility. We're being ridiculous. Each mayor, according to the needs of his country, ensures that the buildings that are in danger are secured. Don't make us laugh. We need adequate resources. For the reconstruction will serve billions of euros in how much you have to repair the private houses, the public real estate and restart the productive activities. Frankly, I didn't really agree with the appointment of a commissioner. The Presidents of the three Regions could very well be appointed to meet the needs, each for the part of its own competence. This calamity obliges us to reflect, which has already been done here. Being a Member of Parliament for some years, I recall that Article 11 of Decree-Law No. 39 of 28 April 2009, issued by the Government immediately after the Abruzzo earthquake, provided that the Civil Protection proceeded to the urgent census of all seismic zones in Italy, giving absolute priority to the Central Apennines, where the earthquakes are repeated with continuity. During the parliamentary debate oppositions claimed that the function was not assigned to Civil Protection, but to the Regions. Eight years later, nothing has been done in this regard, despite the fact that the opinion of the State-Regions Conference has also spoken. However, the regions have not complied with this obligation. It seems to me that much needs to be done in this respect. Errani was the president of that State-Regions Conference, so maybe you could act differently. In some parts of our country there is an absolutely precarious building heritage, inadequate to withstand any calamity: even the wind can throw down these houses, made of stone and walled with the earth; really they are dangerous. Weeping and mourning attestations no longer serve; action is needed because the earthquake will unfortunately be felt in the coming years. Japan is constantly hit and Italy also has this characteristic. There are buildings that need to be demolished and rebuilt; others need to be adapted or improved. We cannot miss this opportunity to propose an intervention which, although it cannot be definitively decisive, can mitigate the dimension of disasters such as the one we have experienced. I hope this is not another missed opportunity. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u35	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, the senators and senators of the Democratic Party, in recalling the pain of the night of August 24, embrace those who have lost their loved ones, are close to the wounded and solidarity with those who have been struck in personal property or have seen the destruction of the common goods of your community. The earthquake has left hundreds of dead and many injured, has razed entire municipalities to the ground, has hit hard the economy of a vast territory of the Central Apennines, has destroyed thousands of houses of Lazio, Abruzzo, Marche and Umbria. The citizens are right not to want to leave the places where they have always lived and to want to return after the reconstruction. Parliament must understand the deep feelings that bind those peoples to its own lands and defend habits and lifestyles based on ancient cultures and traditions of great value. Much gratitude goes to those who honored Italy in relief operations, difficult and risky, arriving immediately on the sites of the earthquake and remaining there until there was a need: women and men of the Red Cross, firemen, police forces and armed forces, alpine and speleological relief, so much civil personnel of the State, regions and municipalities and many volunteers always present, also them, in times of need. It was also extraordinary, and we must acknowledge this, the generosity of tens of thousands of Italians and Italians who are helping countries affected by the earthquake with money donations. We have seen on television the faces of rescuers of all ages, marked by fatigue but never resigned, pale for fatigue; faces dirty with sweat and dust, with feverish eyes for anxiety and tension. We saw faces of generous people, who showed competence and professionalism knowing that every step, every movement, every decision even minimal depended on the life or death of women, men and children. We have seen the best qualities of the best Italians. Looking at those faces, we felt the pride of being Italian. It has been said that the responsibility for so many deaths must be attributed, not to the earthquake, but to the wrongdoing of man. I do not know and I do not think that anyone today can safely distinguish between the effects of the earthquake and the responsibilities for human behaviour and omissions. But we know that families, survivors and Italy as a whole are entitled to the truth and that in our legal system the judiciary has the task of making it known to us. Let the judiciary work with balance and justice and learn to wait for its conclusions, without trying to anticipate them with our assumptions or, worse, with our political aspirations. Just a few more words about the future. Reconstruction will be a difficult and very long task, but it will be fine. The Government has been present in the affected territories since the first moment with Minister Delrio; Commissioner Errani is a gentleman and is a very experienced person; the Presidents of the four Regions affected by the earthquake are also excellent personalities and great sensitivity. Errani knows how important it is in reconstruction to involve the affected populations and the institutions representing them. We must look forward to the future of the affected territories and the devastated cities, but we must also remember that from the past there is always a lot to learn, not only for the good - and I think last of Friuli, Umbria and Emilia-Romagna - but also not to repeat mistakes already made, especially in the lack of vigilance and in the waste of resources. Today Italy is called to go beyond the challenges of immediate relief and a responsible reconstruction. The Italian Government has set itself the ambitious and long-term goal of securing our historical, monumental, residential and landscape heritage. We must have the courage to face up to our responsibilities and recognize the depth of delay in preventing seismic risk. Not all hazards arising from natural phenomena can be predicted and neutralized, but new scientific knowledge, experience and good prevention can minimise their negative effects. Many times, after the earthquakes we have faced the costly and difficult reconstruction activity of destroyed cities and territories. Italy is considered an excellence for its ability to manage emergencies, but we are very far behind in prevention and maintenance. In the past, governments of all colors have been able to deal with natural disasters, but no government, either right or left, has ever had the foresight to start a serious and long-term program to secure the weakest parts of our country. No parliamentary force, even though it has the tools, has pressed the governments with the insistence necessary to move, nor has there ever been that continuous and repeated pressure of the media and public opinion that has often shown to be able to produce positive results on other issues. Today we know that it is possible to do prevention with appropriate standards and regulations, with good anti-seismic projects, with the quality of the materials and with the precision of the executive techniques, with punctual and serious controls. We know that prevention is possible even for historic buildings, for which static safety is as indispensable as the protection of their artistic values. Of great importance for the future of our country that the program of safety of Italy has been assumed as a priority by the Government, just as it is indispensable that, with equal priority, an involvement of Europe is urged, whose contribution must not be lacking. This is today the duty of politics and the Senate of the Republic: to stand by the people affected, to ensure transparency and the quality of relief and reconstruction operations, to help our country to protect its territory, as far as possible, from the dangers of earthquakes and the consequences of our hydrogeological fragility. In order not to fall into rhetoric, not just to make empty parliamentary speeches, this duty must be the solemn commitment of the Senate from today. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u36	You asked the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Dr. Delrio. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u37	Mr President, Senators, I would like to begin by thanking you because I believe that the embrace that Parliament, together with the Government, wished to give today, recalling the 295 victims of the earthquake on 24 August, at 3.38 p.m., allows the affected centres, the populations, the families, to feel close to our Republic, all together, in its articulations. The first rightful thought goes to these interrupted lives, including 22 minor ones: a pain and loss that nothing can fill, but which commits everyone, as it has been and how it will continue to be, to be present, to be tenaciously close every day, to return as much as possible a normal life to those who have suffered such great pain. We are there, we have been there from the first moment, on behalf of the Government, but I also believe in your name, with compassion and with the desire to react and to move forward with determination, making available all our best energies. I am referring in the first place to the National Civil Protection System, which has shown that it is up to a great country and has done so in all its components, that is, with the Fire Departments, the Italian Red Cross, the Armed Forces (this is the Civil Protection System) and the regional civil protection. In the early morning, when I arrived, they were already ready to mount the fields and already had greater availability than the needs. It is, therefore, a system that has acted from the beginning, not only in the extraordinary sacrifice of those firemen that we saw sitting at 5 o'clock in the afternoon and apologizing for wanting to eat something. They apologized: excuse us, let's eat something, we've been working for 10-12 hours. This is an unforgettable Italy. [[Applause]] I believe that the praise of the Civil Protection System goes, indeed, also to the regional civil protections that have demonstrated readiness: it has already been mentioned the fact that the Civil Protection of Trentino has set up the school from today and therefore the school year has begun also for the children of Amatrice. We had said from the beginning that the resumption of school activities was a very important sign, because school is the centre of our community, because education is the basis from which to start reconstruction, because that is where there is generational confrontation, it is there that we can form that network of community relations, indispensable even before and even more than walls. Today was therefore a happy day and a big thank you goes to all those who have worked to achieve this goal. We know that normality is not only the first day of school, but also the return of the possibility of work. For this reason, civil protection is not only carrying out all the necessary investigations to give the certificates of agibilità to the buildings, but is also working with the entrepreneurs, because the work and the possibility that continues the entrepreneurial activity represent another important basis for the reconstruction of the community and I, as former mayor of an earthquake town, remember the determination of the entrepreneurs of my land who said that they want to immediately start working again. The work, the school, the reconstruction of the municipality, the town hall, understood as the house of all: these are the objectives that we gave ourselves immediately. We also said a clear word: we want to be present, but we also want to rebuild there, we do not want to make new cities. We are convinced that our fragile but beautiful centers of the Apennines should be rebuilt, because Italy is that. In this sense, I believe that the government has already taken important steps before this tragedy, such as the plan for school building and the plan for the prevention of hydrogeological failure; moreover, it has already made available the resources for reconstruction for the first time thanks to your action and soon again will have the approval of the new law on civil protection. For this reason, the Government has stated that it is ready to give all the support necessary for the reconstruction to take place and take place there; however, while expressing this strong determination, we have also told the whole country to help us: it is too difficult, we need the best intelligences, our extraordinary engineers, the architects. The availability of Professor Azzone and Renzo Piano to mention the two most famous, however, must not hide the great availability that we have found from all the professionals, the most common people, to help make sure that the reconstruction is true, both harmonious, and respectful of the traditions, of the culture of our country. This is the Casa Italia project: it is, that is, an attempt to finally put prevention first, as many of you have pointed out. The real challenge is certainly to prepare a winter not too difficult for the affected populations, but we already have all the accommodation and availability to remove the tents as soon as possible. The real challenge is to set up temporary houses in the shortest possible time and we will certainly try to do it again before seven months: we have already identified the areas and we are already thinking about how to accelerate the urbanization works. Of course there is all this, but first of all there are the challenge of reconstruction, to do there, in those places, the challenge to resume daily life and, above all, to prevent that in these classrooms and in these places we still have to commemorate the victims. Therefore, we need to work on prevention and the Casa Italia project means exactly this: care, maintenance, prevention for the territory and for our public places. Our schools, our squares, our churches, our hospitals are the heritage of our identity: we must prevent our schools or our hospitals from falling, as unfortunately happened in Amatrice and in the places affected by the earthquake. This is our objective: to achieve a serious and credible plan of prevention, which has transparent priorities and which is available, just as they will be available to all citizens and, of course, to Parliament's control activities, the expenses that we will support, day by day, to rebuild these territories. The road is a long one, but I think we must tell our citizens the truth, that reconstruction will not take a few months or a few years, but it will probably take a long time. What our citizens ask of us and ask of you today - and I thank you for making it so openly - is to be with them day after day, step by step, continuing to show determination, strength and support for their efforts, in order to make possible this reconstruction and regeneration of a stronger community, which will be able to abandon the spotlight, but certainly not to be forgotten. Lights and spotlights will turn off, but we must continue to remember and keep alive the memory of our dead, to help that community to resume its life. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and Misto-Idv.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u38	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2271, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 282, 453, 454 and 1236. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 2, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u39	Mr President, I am going to take very little time from a measure which I believe has achieved quite good results and which I believe can also receive a fairly distributed consensus in this House. I would like to point out to the rapporteur and the Government amendment 2.23 (text 2). We have done a good job in the Commission and there has been a marked improvement in the discipline: now we are going to examine Article 2, which redefines the discipline of public support for the publishing sector. Article 2 defines the entities that will benefit from these contributions and, rightly, paragraph 2 (c) of paragraph 2 excludes all publishing companies of newspapers and periodicals belonging to publishing groups listed or participated by companies listed in regulated markets, precisely because they want to allocate the funds to entities that carry out the information activity. I realized that, during the examination in the Commission, we forgot one of the requirements that I believe must be fundamental to being able to benefit from these contributions: those who benefit from these contributions cannot have employees, directors and managers whose compensation exceeds that laid down by law by the decree-law, issued when I was Minister and then anticipated by the Renzi Government, that is, that of the first President of the Court of Cassation, which corresponds to 240,000 euros. I think it is not only a common sense rule, but also a law of justice, because it would be unlikely to grant contributions that would be used in the case of salaries, in these newspapers, which exceed the ceiling of EUR 240,000. So my amendment sets this ceiling, not to impose a certain salary, but as a requirement to benefit from public contributions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u40	Mr President, some of the amendments that are absolutely fundamental to us have already been accepted in the Commission, so I am not going back to that. I would just like to put to the attention of the rapporteur and the House an issue which may perhaps be the subject of reflection. Amendment 2.9 provides for the establishment, in the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, of a register of companies operating in the publishing sector. Mr President, we are pleased with the pluralism fund, but I believe that it would greatly help to make the corporate participation of newspapers and publishing companies, their balance sheet, changes and updates more public and transparent. I believe that this would greatly help pluralism and make the sector more and more transparent. (17.49) (Followed by Mr De PETRIS). In this way, electoral citizens could be aware of what is happening and of the great changes, as we have seen lately. There are also other issues, which we have highlighted with the tabling of some amendments. In particular, I would like to draw the attention of the rapporteur and the House itself to the fact that we are dealing, especially with the profession of journalists, with a scourge which has become increasingly present in recent years and which has invaded the profession itself. I am referring to the scourge of the precariousness and exploitation of many journalists, especially young people. Therefore, I believe that it should be more and more binding that those who access this fund should show that they are in compliance with the payment of contributions and payments, that they comply with the rules of fair compensation and, above all, that they comply with all collective labour agreements, both at company level and at national level.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u41	Mr President, I would like to point out to the rapporteur the amendment that concerns the issue of publishing for those entities that are today non-profit-making, keep this activity within them and, together with it, have other entities grouped together. We need to understand how this aspect can be dissolved within the text and, therefore, I would ask, if necessary, to consider a possible rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u42	Mr President, I have two amendments, the first of which concerns scientific journals excluded from publishing contributions. In the current historical moment, the reality of scientific journals is that the economic constraints that afflict universities throughout Italy no longer allow departments to subscribe to subscriptions. As a result, scientific journals continue on the basis of voluntary contributions and many of them have already been forced to stop publishing. It is a dry loss for the cultural dimension of our country, to which this law could be remedied, however with very limited resources. Therefore, I would ask the rapporteur to consider whether scientific journals should also be included among those receiving contributions. The other amendment that I would like to stress concerns the point where the law provides for the payment of contributions to be made in an effective time frame. The expression is clearly vague, and also somewhat ambiguous, and does not correspond to the need, which many publishing companies and cooperatives have recognised during the hearings in the 1st Commission, that the entrepreneur publisher can rely on certain deadlines for delivery. Many companies, in fact, not knowing what the state contribution will be, are not even able to draw up their budget estimates. On this point too, therefore, I would like to ask the attention of the rapporteur and the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u43	Mr President, I would like to draw the House's attention to two amendments. The first, 2.53, is very simple. Freedom and the quality of information - or rather bad information and its bad quality - are often due, in this country, not only to the direct control that parties and lobby, with huge conflicts of interest, exert directly on the media, but also to the blackmail of the precarious, as has already been pointed out. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I would ask you to call on the House to pay attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u44	I call on colleagues to lower their voices and listen to Senator Airola.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u45	AIROLA (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. Since the quality of the information is also due to the quality of the treatment of workers within the editorial board, and knowing that many of them are often blackmailed and starved today, they have VAT consignments and must pay in advance all the costs, including taxes, with this amendment 2.53 we simply ask that all companies that do not comply with the provisions of the law on fair compensation, as well as all companies that have convictions or cases in progress for reasons of work, mobbing or anti-union behaviour - in short, detrimental to workers' rights - do not perceive the funds. It seems to me a simple and trivial measure, but at the same time an important signal because the quality of information passes through respect for the rights of workers and journalists. The second amendment, Amendment No 2.74, simply relates to the contribution to be made to the actual number of copies sold. We know that this has often been a way of stealing state money and getting four scumbags out of someone in a bad way. Therefore, given that the 5 Star Movement is absolutely contrary to public funding in newspapers, at least by voting on these two simple amendments, we could limit the damage. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u46	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendments 2,369 and 2,370. Amendment 2,369 seeks to give an address to the subject of practicing. As you know, at this moment it is the faculty of every publisher to welcome anyone who, following the path of preparation, becomes a future journalist. With this amendment we would like to try to change the rules of access to the practice. Our idea is to introduce a suitable university education in order to take away from publishers the possibility of starting to practice anyone who has any training. In addition, with Amendment 2,370, we are trying to meet one of the major issues of the publishing world in recent years, namely the phenomenon of the use of complaints and claims. We propose, therefore, to form a jury that has the power to settle any disputes in order to prevent a series of cases coming to court that would help clog the path of justice. The idea, then, is to try, if possible, to settle the dispute before the proceedings pass to the court.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u47	Mr President, Amendment 2.368 is very simple and concerns the way in which representatives of the National Council of the Order of Journalists are elected. In the text dismissed by the Commission, it is written: "Providing maximum territorial representativeness." It is clear that this is an appropriate indication. With this amendment, I propose that we add the words: "Thinking that members are elected on a regional basis in proportion to the number of members and in order to ensure the presence of at least one representative for each region". It is nothing extraordinary, but it serves to achieve two objectives: the first is to ensure that each Region of Italy has at least one representative on the National Council of the Order of Journalists. I also understand that there may be a need to have personalities who collect votes throughout Italy in order to be fully representative not only of the territories but also of the opinions, sensibilities and cultures of course present within the National Council of the Order of Journalists. I therefore say to the rapporteur and to the Undersecretary in future that I am willing to present a text 2 which provides - for example - that part of the advisers is elected on a regional basis - for example 33% - to guarantee one representative for each region, leaving more than 44 members elected on a national basis. This would ensure territoriality, on the one hand, and, on the other, the possibility of rewarding the personalities who have the greatest visibility and want to collect consensus throughout Italy. This would make the Council of the Order highly representative and would guarantee us an important element of democracy.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u48	Colleagues, the Presidency, having assessed the amendments tabled to the draft law under consideration, declared amendment 2.4 inadmissible, in accordance with the provisions already laid down in the referee, as well as proposals 2.28 and 2.75. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u49	Mr President, I shall confine myself to expressing the opposite opinion on all the amendments, with the exception of those which I shall now list. Compared to Amendment 2.9, I would ask Senator De Petris to turn it into an agenda. On Senator Collina's amendment 2.13 I would give a favourable opinion with a different wording: instead of deleting the word 'only', I would like to introduce, after the words 'publishers', the words 'commercially', in order to specify that the activity which must be carried out exclusively in the commercial sphere. The rapporteur's amendment 2.601 naturally supports Amendments 2.23 (text 2), which are contained in the annex, tabled by Senator Calderoli, and 2.327.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u50	Mr President, my opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur. I would, however, like to propose to Senator Calderoli, who tabled Amendment 2.23 (text 2) that it be transformed into an agenda which allows us to deal with a subject of various points of view, in this and in other texts, in a more comprehensive way. If this proposal is not accepted, I shall return to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u51	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u54	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, if we are in 77th place for freedom of the press in the world, behind Botswana, it is also thanks to direct and indirect subsidies and the military occupation of information, which sees little pluralism and much clientelism and subjection. In the field of information there are practically no pure publishers, conflicts of interest have not been resolved, nothing is done against the reckless lawsuits and the problem of the intimidation of the mafia and the 'ndrangheta' exists. There are, in fact, between 30 and 50 journalists under protection because they are threatened. Here we are talking about the rich state alms that have transformed this publishing into a state publishing (1.5 billion in twelve years). It must be understood that we are not angry with journalists. It is true that some journalist writes for party taken - I used this expression intentionally and I am referring to one party in particular - but it is also true that many write articles absolutely impeccable, but then they are published with scandalous titles. In fact, when they arrive in the editorial office, the title holders modify the content with a hand, knowing very well that the title has more impact than written later, and this also happens because the press responds to masters who are not the customers. Instead of relying on the quality of information, it is based on subsidies. We have fought a battle on this since the so-called V-day of 2008, when we collected 1.350,000 signatures in one day for freedom of the press. And on the freedom of the press and on the abolition of the contribution to publishing we presented a bill that was the first experiment of direct democracy online: thousands of citizens intervened to say that all the provisions that provided for funding for publishing, except those that had a predominantly social nature, and that the 80 million euros were hijacked to finance startups with new publishing projects in the media and for the under 35. What makes me most, however, is that it had already been established that this funding should end: introduced with fascism, were to end in 2014, and instead it did not happen, and this, Mr President, was one of Renzi's boasts, when he was still not President of the Council and had to launch his hostile takeover bid within the party to win the secretariat. He said he'd take that money out of the papers to give it to the kindergartens. What's changed now? Why has Matteo Renzi gone from the abolition of funding to the desire to manage them? Probably we need a sounding board in the middle of the referendary campaign; it serves to give the government a power of conditioning on the publishing through a delegated law that will allow to determine by what criteria this and that will have to take public financing, that is, money of the Italians, in order to distort the information during the referendary campaign. We cannot accept this. It is a battle of freedom and coherence that should invest the Government in the right of citizens to be free and informed when they have to vote. We have seen shame in the previous referendum on drilling and now we are still faced with a public opinion that we would like to blindfold. We can't accept that. Here it is time to show who is on the side of the citizens and who is on the side of the lobby. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u55	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Morra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u58	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, this amendment is intended to abolish the Order of Journalists, and we are not the first to propose such an abolition. Already Einaudi said that the register, once again established by Benito Mussolini, is immoral because the obligation to belong to it places a limit on what a limit must not have, namely freedom of expression, which, moreover, in our Constitution is protected by Article 21. He added Berlinguer that he was opposed to any qualification requirement for the profession of journalist, which is absurd discrimination contrary to freedom of the press. After these illustrious predecessors of ours, we had another one. Before today's debate in the Chamber, on 29 December 2015 Matteo Renzi said: [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , right in front of the president of the Order of Journalists who, if it were for him, would have abolished it the next morning. Today, if you like, it is the next morning that you were waiting: you can finally fulfil your intentions with our vote in favour. Mr President, what is an order for? It serves, for example, to guarantee citizens the quality of a service and service. But what is the quality of the performance in journalism? It is the objectivity, the compliance of the facts. And who's the judge of this? Certainly not the one who gives you an examination upstream and then washes his hands downstream, when you go and write what they tell you to write, as happens sometimes to us, and it happens, believe it or not - that they have the mandate to make us say something that can then justify statements in a given direction. It happens, and they come to us. So, the quality of the information is established by the citizen who, only if he has a worthy service, buys that newspaper. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The newspaper should not support itself on funding, and the Journalists' Order should not filter what journalists write. There is no state examination in France, Germany or the United Kingdom, because control is then carried out on what is actually written: that is where we have to be inflexible, and instead we forgive everything, and the Order does not intervene properly. With respect to this rule, once again Matteo Renzi must say in front of the Italians - and in this case the Government should review the negative opinion it expressed on the amendment - whether his speeches are battle horses or are horses of Troy [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And you have a responsibility in voting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u59	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,317, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.318 is withdrawn. Amendment 2.4 is inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.5 tabled by Senators Bruni and Liuzzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 2.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u62	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for you. Are Italian newspapers influenced by banks? I'll be even more precise. "The Messenger" and "The Morning" of the Caltagirone group, in turn the shareholder of Unicredit, when they talk about banks, do so objectively or are they influenced? The editorial group "L'Espresso" of the De Benedetti family, which deals with banks the big debt of another family company, Sorgenia, when talking about them, does it freely or influenced? We do not say what the answer is, but it is said by a study published by the Stigler Study Centre, of the University of Chicago (author Luigi Zingales), which made an analysis of how the newspapers deal with banks and government regulations and measures in this matter. We are talking about a topic that includes - for example - the decree Bankitalia. The study focused, in particular, on the establishment of the Atlas Fund, the so-called bank rescue after the scandal of Veneto Banca and Banca Popolare di Vicenza that have cheated thousands of savers, often elderly, poor people, forced - yesterday's complaint of the Antitrust - to buy shares in exchange for a mortgage. Well, a curious coincidence emerges: newspapers that have overlapping shares with banks or large debts speak of the subject in a different way. The study was not limited to this, because one might think of a coincidence. The comparison has been made, as a comparison, with the foreign press - on the Atlas bottom they have written "Bloomberg", the "Finncial Times" and the "Economist" - and when the newspapers that do not have conflicts of interest abroad such as those I have reported confirm that those who are free from these constraints write in a significantly different way, then I think that economic conditioning should be removed. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] All public funding must be removed. We cannot afford an information system that is enslaved to the government, because the government is not of everyone, but of a part. It represents a part, and we have also seen which part it represents: we have seen it with the amendments passed by the oil lobby on the plant in Basilicata and in a number of situations that have led us to request the resignation and, in the alternative, the withdrawal of the ministerial mandate. In the study that I reported to you Professor Zingales concludes that there is enough for the Italian Antitrust to open an investigation. This is the situation we are in. If the Antitrust must do its part, we must do ours and, since Matteo Renzi wanted to take away the contribution to publishing, now he must tell us why he prefers to manage it, because we are not. The citizens don't fit. If we go to ask the citizens if they want the money to be given to this type of subsidy or to the kindergartens - as Matteo Renzi boasted he wanted to do - I think there would be no doubt. I wonder, then, why your conscience has doubts. What's underneath it? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u63	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2.6, tabled by Senator Morra and other senators, up to the words "redefinition." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.7 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,319, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,320, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 2.9 is impervious.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u66	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, since the rapporteur has said that he is in favour of an agenda, I withdraw Amendment 2.9 and therefore turn it into a agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the G2.9 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u67	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u68	Senator De Petris, do you insist on voting? DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.9, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,321, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.11, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would ask those who tabled identical amendments 2.13 and 2.14, Senators Collina and Malan, if they accept the wording proposed by the rapporteur. COLLINA (PD). Yes, Mr. Persident. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I, too, Mr President, accept it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. At this point I would ask the President of the Budget Commission, Senator Tonini, to comment on the reformulated text under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u69	Mr President, a quick examination of the reformulation tends to widen the audience of those who have access to the fund. However, since the expenditure ceiling for this fund remains unchanged, there are no obstacles from the budgetary Commission's point of view and, therefore, I would like to say nothing.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u70	Nothing changes for the state. Everyone else will complain that they will receive a smaller slice of the cake. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.13 (text 2), tabled by Senator Collina and other senators, identical to amendment 2.14 (text 2), tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.15 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2.16 tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators, until the words "general character" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 2,17 and 2.20 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.23 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u73	Mr GIACOMELLI, State Secretary for Economic Development. Mr President, I would once again like to ask the presenter, whose intellectual honesty I know, to turn this amendment into an agenda that allows us to address an issue that deserves attention - the Government recognizes this - in a balanced, convincing and organic way. There is therefore no absolute opposition to the substance of the question raised. In my opinion, however - and I would like to make it clear again with respect to the rapporteur too - there is every opportunity to deal with this issue on an agenda which allows us to do so with the appropriate opportunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u74	With all due respect for the Government's request, Senator Calderoli maintains amendment 2.23 (text 2). [[Comments of Senator Candiani]] I cannot change the views expressed by the rapporteur and the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u77	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we believe that Senator Calderoli is right to maintain Amendment 2.23 (text 2) and to request the vote. On this occasion the government shows that it has little courage or, if we prefer, little coherence with the situation that the country is experiencing. This is an amendment that should be called social justice, as it would finally allow our fellow citizens to know that the shameful salaries [[Applause from Senator Volpi]] paid to price the presenters - I don't even want to call it the press - and the soubrettes - I don't even want to call them journalists - who for too long as parasites stifle our freedom of information, are finally swept away. Ours is a country in which the middle class has disappeared and the poor have exceeded the threshold proper to a developed country. Mr President, I wonder what the government is doing to withdraw the amendment and downgrade it to an agenda. Do you have to defend those who earn more than EUR 200,000 a year, because you are convinced that they will vote yes to the referendum? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Tell it to the Italians, even those who do not get to earn 200 euros per month. Also tell those who, after the earthquake, will receive 200 euros to get away with it every month, on their own, instead of having the salary of 200,000 euros a year you give to these people! Here you must show consistency, and not elsewhere, not in the newspapers, and not as Minister Giannini did this morning, when she went to inaugurate a school in Amatrice, forgetting that there are still children under tents in Norcia. Here we see the consistency of the Government, Mr Undersecretary: not asking for the change on the agenda, but supporting this amendment and telling the Assembly that the Government gives a favourable opinion! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u80	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, in my report to the text of draft law No 1236, at my first signature, on the same subject and related to draft law No 2271, I raised the problem that Senator Calderoli posed. In our country there are - and I have mentioned a precise example - information companies that go into deficits, and therefore in budget crisis, because there is no balanced relationship between contribution, recognition of service costs and, on the other hand, recognition of benefits. In the specific case, I mentioned the CEO of a well-known national journalistic agency, which earned 600,000 euros a year and put employees in cash, asking for public intervention for them. Building on that experience, I believe that this amendment is acceptable, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his favourable opinion and I would therefore urge the Government to reflect. Perhaps a more precise text could have been formulated, but the issue cannot be evaded, because we have put restrictions on various situations. And this is not about setting by law the salaries of the editors of the newspapers or of the managing directors. It is a question of telling information entrepreneurs - I say this not only as a Member of Parliament but also as an entrepreneur - that, when you choose to be on the free market, you cannot ask for public contributions. If public contributions are to be sought, the rules of political and moral ethics need to be applied, which must provide for a balance between performance and economic recognition. I therefore call for the amendment to be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u83	COCIANCICH, rapporteur. Mr President, it seems to me that the debate is taking a different turn from what I had originally intended, and that it is also taking on political meanings, which go as far as calling into question the positions on the referendum issue. I sincerely believe that we must accept the call for more thought, in order to understand what the scope of this amendment really is. At this point, I would like to change my opinion and simply adhere to what the Government has proposed, for a change of amendment to an agenda. Otherwise, I too shall return to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u86	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, although I do not explain what Buemi and other senators have done, I believe that this issue is so simple. I therefore ask you personally to allow me to sign this amendment and I think that I am an appropriate interpreter of my entire Group, which is also asking you, each senator, to sign the amendment, on which we will therefore vote in favour. I am sorry that the rapporteur has changed his opinion. After the statements and speeches of the two previous senators, perhaps his favourable opinion should have been even more convinced. It is very strange that what convinces us, as it happens, has created doubts in the rapporteur. I do not like this very much and it does not give authority to those in this House who express themselves in this way.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u89	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I too would like to put my signature and that of the Senators of the Italian Left to this text, if you will allow it. Then I'd like to try quietly to reason with everyone. The question is very simple: everyone in his own company and in his own newspaper can do what he wants, even if there would always be a limit in general. But here we are talking about newspapers, newspapers and publishing companies that can access this fund, so we are talking about public money. In my view, therefore, there is a need to abide by the rules, which are the ones to which the public administration must adhere. I am referring to the maximum wage limit. I therefore call on the Government to give more thought to this point. We are not saying, me or Senator Calderoli, that the editor of a newspaper, even the most powerful or the most important, should not take a million euros or 600,000 euros (as in some cases happens). We are talking about public money, that is, the Plurality Fund, and those who have access to this fund. Just as we have asked that those who enter the fund should strictly respect the rules concerning staff, collective agreements and fair compensation, I also think that it would be absolutely appropriate and necessary to put a ceiling on wages. 18.33 (Followed by Mr De PETRIS). Then there is no obligation to draw on the fund and public resources; you know that unfortunately this fund is also quite small, Mr President. If someone goes back, no one has to ask for funding; but if public resources are asked for, then a minimum of rules must also be followed. I would like to remind you that we are talking about an area where precarious journalists may even take two or three euros apiece. Let us never forget the situation in which many journalists, young people and not only, are in and out of work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u92	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Madam President, I would like to make a few comments to Senator Calderoli and to the House - which are, of course, more than comments, hot reflections - because I did not know the amendment and I heard about it for the first time in this House when Senator Calderoli explained it. I understand that the amendment has great communicative effectiveness and that many of the considerations that have been made here by my colleagues certainly at first glance can, immediately and without thinking about it, lead to a positive vote. However, I would like to refer my request to the House for a moment's thought. I try to explain why and of course I use the tools I have, which are not exquisitely political instruments, but are also technical instruments. The public funding of journalistic enterprises, in the ways in which this reform finally evokes it today, has to do with two constitutional principles. The first constitutional principle is that of the right to pluralism in information, but in this case, with this amendment, of course, it must be balanced with another principle, that of freedom of enterprise. Now, each of us knows how valuable the remarks made by my colleague Mr De Petris are, so much so that all political forces have wished to include in the text the condition that companies that require to be admitted to the distribution of the fund have, however, respected all contractual and social security obligations vis-à-vis their employees. But there is another matter. Ours is a system in which, from time to time, often under regime and sometimes under special legislation, entire economic sectors are admitted to public financing. No one has ever asked for this public funding to be linked to the remuneration paid to the managers of these companies (sometimes very exuberant, of course, compared to those granted to the directors of newspapers). Therefore, our decision has to do with at least three principles: the right to pluralism of information, freedom of enterprise and, finally, the condition of equal treatment for companies that all invest in the free market. I say this because such a rule would have a chain effect with it, because such a rule could of course lead to a whole range of issues and disputes relating to the fact that there are companies operating in the free market that are allowed to receive public funding, unfortunately often more than what will be ensured by the distribution of the fund, and that they are not obliged to observe any limits in the remuneration of their management. Having said that, I would ask the House for a pause for reflection on the decision, which may have two forms. The first is that which the Government has rightly represented: that of presenting an agenda committing us to reason on this issue. If this form is not accepted by the House, as it is not considered satisfactory, the other form is to stop in the reflection on this amendment, which we can also deal with, since there are no foreclosure problems after that.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u95	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I listened to the previous speeches and regretted not being able to speak before, given the role I was playing. I can agree with the principles set out by President Finocchiaro with regard to freedom of information. But we have already provided for cases of exclusion from the possibility of receiving contributions. We have excluded the information bodies of the parties - which in any case enjoy freedom of information - and trade union movements, specialist journals of a technical, business, professional or scientific nature. We have therefore gone to exclude a part which, however, falls within the freedom of information. We have excluded all publishing companies of newspapers and periodicals belonging to publishing groups listed or participated in regulated markets and these also fall within the freedom of information. Therefore, to provide for a further requirement as to whether or not these contributions can be accessed does not introduce a new principle, but introduces another criterion. Now, not speaking in legal terms, but very out of the question, I would remind you that all sectors of publishing, especially at the level of the local issue, will live or die on the basis of the contributions they will receive. I think it is sacrosanct to support freedom of information. Perhaps, however, the size of the salary ceiling has been lost here: EUR 240,000 is the salary that the President of the Republic receives. [[Applause from Senator Buemi.]] Can I, then, predict that, in order to receive public contributions, we cannot earn more than the President of the Republic? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] That sounds like a pretty high figure to me. In fact, if someone says no because we need to discipline him better, there are no saints, we do not go to touch the salary roofs of the administrators and editors of newspapers. Let's just say that if you want to live with the money that the state gives you to your director, you can't give him more than 240,000 euros. It seems to me to be sacrosanct and fair, and I believe that the House will approve it, since in the end it seems to me that both the Government and the rapporteur are back in the Chamber. I am sorry that the rapporteur has also changed his position for the political burden. There is no political burden here, there is only common sense here: we give you money, don't throw them away. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u98	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to add my signature to Amendment 2.23 (text 2) - and I think that other colleagues in my group will also want to join me - and I am announcing my vote in favour. Frankly, I did not understand the reasoning of Senator Finocchiaro, who says that if we change this principle, there is a risk of a path that can also cover other subsidised sectors. Now, it is true that there are various forms of public subsidies and provisions of various kinds, and so the senator said that she should look into the matter and put forward an agenda. In short, she expressed doubts about this amendment because then this principle - I shall have misunderstood - could be extended to other areas. There has been a long discussion in Italy of many important companies, even private ones, who have received public support in various forms, social shock absorbers and so on. Then some of them take the tax office elsewhere: they took subsidies in Italy and then they bring the registered office in Holland or Great Britain, which, among other things, at least for the Netherlands that has remained in the European Union, should make us think about how badly the European Union works, because we should have a similar tax system and that is not the case. We can also see this from the recent events in Ireland concerning the major multinationals of the network, tax events that then also concern Italy and that see the tax impunity that so many groups like Amazon and Google can enjoy. One could also talk about Ryanair. The Government recently boasted of an agreement with Ryanair that makes flying cheap but then it would be necessary to know the employment contracts of the employees, the money they take from the airports, that is from the former Provinces and the cities. Everyone talks about the market except to see that some, then, make good prices because they get public subsidies. The principle of competition and market freedom should therefore be deepened. However, we will talk about these issues at another time. As far as the amendment to our review is concerned, I expect the House to approve it because these publishing companies receive subsidies to protect pluralism and freedom. I have directed small newspapers that have benefited, because of their political history, from public funding, so I find it absolutely legitimate that there is a consideration represented by a roof, which is perhaps also theoretical because I believe that if Senator Calderoli we asked to give an example, we would probably discover that at this moment none of these subsidized publishing companies have managers or directors who earn more than 240,000 euros. So it's a principle, it's not a norm ad personam, or ad personas, or a standard photography. Then the big directors stay calm, their newspapers are listed on the stock exchange, they are owned by private companies; they say they do not have public provisions but we should check, Senator Calderoli, mail, telephone and any preferential rates because, in my opinion, there is still some in the sector not directly subsidised even if those are conditions of advantage over some rates. Having said that, I hope that the House will approve this amendment because, in the face of support, it is possible to maintain a limit that is largely generous. I'm telling ourselves. There is so much talk here about castes, caste, the treatment of parliamentarians and anything else that should rightly be reviewed, some of which have already been reviewed and perhaps not enough, but here we are talking about figures that are literally above the maximum treatment of the supposed caste. So why should we not approve this rule? I find it absolutely logical, of common sense: it does not deny the right to receive public subsidies, but it provides that these companies (I would not even know how to make an example at this time, so the thing is absolutely not rancory, not vindictive, not directed to anyone) keep their wages under a ceiling of 240,000 euros, which is not bad. I don't understand the reservation. I don't understand the reasons for it. If, then, we want to extend the principle to other sectors, perhaps (I say); but in this case we are discussing a law on publishing, so we are not talking about other sectors, which operate on the market, have subsidies; we will talk about it when we get there. The state also has a duty, sometimes; social shock absorbers are a useful thing: how many crises resolve and face? Then, if those who benefit from it have a somewhat more austere conduct, all in all, they also do a proper job towards the community that helps those in crisis, but that gets in return a more virtuous behavior. I remind ourselves that we are rightly at the center of attention and we do not understand why we must have an unmotivated generosity for the benefit of third parties, who frankly can live the same, even with that roof. My accession, therefore, is not polemical but of common sense, which I hope will be widely shared by the Senate Assembly. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u101	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Madam President, I would like the debate on Mr Calderoli's amendment to respond to the supreme and superior aim that we are very often committed to commenting on and explaining the texts of the amendments we are proposing, namely improving the quality of legislative production. My colleague, Mr Finocchiaro, with her usual prudence and recognised competence, acknowledged that the amendment had not been properly examined and therefore, basically, explained her thinking, also offering assessments of risk assumptions, all - I think - related to the possibility that the approval of this amendment could have negative repercussions, determined by the hypothetical extension of the measure itself to a case that exceeds what is intended to be standardized. First Mr Candiani, then the same proposer, Senator Calderoli, in a precise and precise way, with the addition of the comments made by Mr Gasparri, I believe that they have added sufficiently clear evaluation and explanatory elements that, even to me that I had thoroughly examined the text of the amendment, have led to a solid conviction that it is an amending proposal to be supported. I have too much respect for Mr Cociancich to believe that the modification of his positive opinion in order to return to the will of the Assembly, is determined by the conditioning effect of the Government, by the gaze of the Government that extends over the activity of the Assembly, to limit and reduce its legislative powers. I would like to make it clear that, even through the speeches we have heard, which are valuable and convincing on the subject, we can overcome the suspicion that the Government is leading the majority of this House to express itself in a way that is functional to the will of the power constituted. The power constituted is that which is formed through the majority that will express the vote, of dissent or consensus, to this right amendment. In this sense, the vote of the Conservative and Reformist Group will be, in this condition, truly convinced in positive terms. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u104	FALANGA (AL-A). Madam President, before I asked to be allowed to sign the amendment, I now make an explanation of vote for my Group. In repeating the vote in favour, I would like to make a comment on the intervention of Senator Finocchiaro, who has authoritatively stated and reminded this House of those constitutional principles which, in your opinion, could be called into question by the adoption of the amendment. The senator concludes her intervention by offering a double option: the approval of an agenda with which the Government undertakes to address the issue or provision. Then the question arises spontaneously: if the norm, as imagined by Senator Calderoli, presents vices of unconstitutionality - which Senator Finocchiaro anticipated and feared - how can the same then ask a commitment of the Government to approve and to address the issue always on the basis of an unconstitutional principle? If there are defects of unconstitutionality in Senator Calderoli's regulatory forecast, there are both in the amendment that we are going to approve and in any agenda. We do not understand how these statements of unconstitutionality can be considered to be out of date when we talk about the amendment and consider them to be out of date when it comes to an agenda. I needed to point out this inconsistency for a technical comparison, because sometimes the issues are properly put on a technical level. If we also have to deal with each other in technical terms, there are no problems and we can do so. On a technical level, I repeat that I do not think there is any unconstitutional aspect of the legislative provision, and I would like to reiterate that those who have argued that there are no rules cannot fail to support the same thing when, instead of an amendment, we are talking about an agenda. [[Applause from Senator Scavone.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u107	COCIANCICH, rapporteur. Madam President, I would like to thank all my colleagues who, in my view, have made very competent comments which seem very interesting to me and which have highlighted the overall problematic nature of this issue, but given the fact that the amendment has only been tabled today in this House and I have not even had time to examine it... [[Senator Calderoli's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u108	Senator Calderoli, please. Go ahead, Senator Cociancich. COCIANCICH, rapporteur. There has been no time to examine it with due attention, and I believe that there is a need in this House to look into it. Mr President, I therefore propose that we set aside the amendment provisionally to allow more thought to be given before we reach a vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u111	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am shocked by the way things have gone: I was in your place when I heard the rapporteur express a favourable opinion. The government said it preferred an agenda; otherwise it would have returned to the House. Then it went on and the rapporteur also returned to the Chamber, in line with the Government's opinion. Subsequently, despite the extent of the government's decision was really broad, the President of the Commission also came into the field suggesting the provision. This position is now also taken up by the rapporteur. This amendment was dated August 2016: it did not come to the Assembly today, but dates back to the period of the closure of our work, when we devoted ourselves to other measures after the one under discussion. I know very well how the "smoke tour" works: first we ask him to go to the House, then we put him away, and tomorrow, when we take him back, it will be said that that day was raining or snowing - or whatever - for which the opinion will be changed. You want to ensure that public resources are used in the freest discretion of these subjects, and I believe that this is unfair. The President decides on the provision, pursuant to paragraph 11 of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, so it will be his responsibility. I am really asking the rapporteur for further consideration, because if we admit that we are willing to pay those figures to those who take money not from us, but from taxpayers, then, my boys, my position changes with respect to all the rest of the measure both in the sense of the final vote and in the behaviour in this House, because there is a limit to everything, also to common sense and decency. We are no longer doing any more of the measures that appear to be in effect like marcettes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u112	Since setting aside only means that we are going over this amendment and then going back to it, if there are no objections, I am going to put it aside. [[Comments of Senator Calderoli]] Amendment 2.23 (text 2) is therefore set aside. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,322, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 2.24.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u115	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, with Amendment 2,24 we want to reserve funding for the real purpose of this measure which, I recall, should set up a fund. We are against this, but if this fund is to be set up, at least it is really done for pluralism and innovation in information. We reserve these resources to companies composed mainly of journalists and who mainly use recruitment in a stable form. We know what is the practice of widespread and very heavy exploitation of the work of journalists who are paid piecework (there is still piecework in journalism), and with wages incompatible with the quality of writing and careful analysis of the facts. Journalists can sometimes be misled by the way they are paid and forced to work. This proves one thing out of all, namely that the 5 Star Movement is not against journalism or against journalists; if anything it is against a publishing system that is deeply ill and sick from above when politics badly occupies it. We simply ask this: that there be an effective match between the purpose stated in the law and how the funding is used. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u116	I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 2.24. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.25, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.26, tabled by Senator Mazzoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,323, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.601 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.28, tabled by Senator Quagliariello, identical to amendment 2.324, tabled by Senator Di Biagio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.27 and 2.325 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,326, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,31, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators, identical to amendments 2,32, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators, 2,35, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators, and 2,36, tabled by Senator Mazzoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.327.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u119	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am voting in favour of this amendment because, with regard to the requirement in paragraph 2 (a) (3) of Article 2, it is better five years than three. We had proposed the abolition of this period of only three years, which is not foreseen for any other category, which is foreseen for this type of financing. It does not seem appropriate - in an area where efforts are being made to encourage programming, innovation and so on - to guarantee this funding, albeit in a limited way, for a limited period of time. Better, therefore, five years than three, but it remains in itself a limitation difficult to justify and that risks going in the opposite direction to what everyone hopes, at least as a side effect, this bill has to give some perspective and programming to these publications.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u120	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,327, tabled by Senators Mazzoni and Bisinella. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.38.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u123	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, with this amendment we want to exclude from financing publishing companies whose capital is majority owned by foundations. Here are understood the foundations referable to political subjects, individual exponents, parties, currents, and if the norm explicitly, that is, from the door, excludes the parties and the unions, we do not want these subjects to be brought back inside the window, perhaps in an indirect or unobtrusive way, since the transparency of the sector is also one of the purposes of the bill. If we want to achieve this, let us make it clear and coherent: foundations, especially political foundations, must also be excluded. [[Applause from Senator Donno.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u124	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,38, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.40, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,328, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.41 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.42, tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.33 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,329, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,330, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,46, tabled by Senator Galimberti, identical to amendment 2,331, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.332, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.48.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u127	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, we have several examples of newspapers directly or indirectly related to parties or political representatives: one case that we have mentioned in the past is that of the magazine "Italianieuropei", but it is not the only one. If then there must be no direct connection, there must be no indirect connection. Politics must stay out of publishing, at least it must stay out of contributions to publishing, and here we must say clearly and transparently whether we want to continue lending funding to these bodies, or whether they must be excluded. Among other things, when they refer to President Renzi's party (as long as it is still the same party, since sometimes there is doubt), we should remember that he had declared himself opposed to this funding while now it is changing course. We are consistent on this; we have proposed deleterious amendments tout court of financing and we would like it to be recognised, at least in detail, that we are striving in every way to introduce measures, even the most partial ones, in order to combat drift. At this moment, Italian information is really at risk and at the moment when we are playing the democracy of future years with the change of the Constitutional Charter, we should remove the hands of parties and politics from the world of information. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u128	I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 248. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.49 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.50, tabled by Senator Mazzoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to point out that Senator Galimberti has tabled a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.51, which is essentially identical to Amendment 2.333, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.52.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u131	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, we all know that quote for which journalism, information, is to say something that someone wants not to be known; everything else is propaganda. Amendment 2,52 seeks to limit advertising revenue from newspapers, because if a newspaper is financed for more than 30% of its total costs by advertising, it can be doubted whether it does information or reclaims. Having said that, advertising was to be the real heart of pluralism, because for example we know how much plastered the broadcasting system is because very few advertising agencies collect most of the ads and in this way they have the possibility to influence not only the palimpsests and the editorials of private newspapers, but even RAI. We know that if some people want something not to be known, on TG1, TG2 and TG3 it does not appear; moreover, what we have seen even recently with the removal of some journalists and directors from public networks is telling us that we are going more and more towards an information system regulated by economic and financial lobbying. [[Applause from Senator Buccarella]] Therefore, we must put the roof on advertising wherever possible. This is, moreover, an extremely 'targeted' measure, because it hits the problem and proposes a solution that immediately achieves a redistribution of resources among all the publications, putting them all on an equal footing. This equality was one of the principles invoked by the measure: we must therefore give it consistency and be consistent. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u132	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.52, tabled by Senator Morra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.53.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u135	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, this amendment really proposes a rule of civilisation and not just respect for trade union protection and the work enshrined in the Constitution. When we say that we exclude companies that do not comply with the provisions of the law on fair compensation, as well as all companies that have convictions or cases in progress for reasons of work, mobbing or anti-syndical behaviour, we say something that should be taken for granted, but if you refuse a principle I worry even more. We are talking about actions that are very often directed towards uncomfortable journalists, who are annoying, in a system in which to annoy should instead be a quality. I am no longer asking why the Government has expressed its opposition, but I ask colleagues to subvert the government's indication at least once and to make a gesture of responsibility in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u136	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.53, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.334, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.54, tabled by Senator Mazzoni, which is essentially identical to amendment 2.335, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.336, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.56, tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,57, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,58, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,59, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 2.60, tabled by Mr Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.337, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.338, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.61, tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators, identical to amendment 2.339, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.62 and 2.63 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.64, tabled by Senator Mazzoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.67, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.68, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,340, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.73, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,341 tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.74.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u139	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, there are newspapers among the causes of the junk emergency; not newspapers intended as newspapers, but newspapers printed because the system of contributions and subsidies is drugged and calibrated on copies distributed rather than copies sold. So it happens that copies are printed on copies of newspapers for the sole purpose of collecting more of these contributions. A yield of 50 percent of copies had never been seen before the advent of publishing provisions. We have entire waste forests and we have the waste collection system crisis, because we use public resources to waste material resources. All this can be remedied by voting on this amendment, which provides that the contribution should be granted on the basis of copies actually sold and bought. I think it's a common sense amendment that doesn't bother anyone. Let's see. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u140	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u142	FALANGA (AL-A). Madam President, the Senator who last spoke reminded me when - as Senator Casini will remember - I was the liquidator of the "The Discussion" magazine, which I then administered for some time. Well, it was exactly what the Senator of the 5 Star Movement has now denounced: the contributions, which were related to printed copies, meant that more copies were printed than those that were then sold. It is an ancient fact, which has been happening for a long time; it has always been so. If the amendment of the Senator of the 5 Star Movement aims to avoid this filth that has lasted for years and that I have been able to verify personally from the professional point of view, I can only ask the Senator of the 5 Star Movement to authorize me to sign it. I also hope that my group's colleagues will follow my suggestion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u143	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.74, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,342, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.79, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 2.80. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 2,81. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,343, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.82, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,344, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2,84 tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators, identical to Amendment 2,85 tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Calderoli and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,87. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,345, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators, up to the word "complex." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 2.91, 2.92 and 2.94 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2.96, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators, up to the words "the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2,98 are therefore excluded. We move on to Amendment No 2.99, identical to Amendments Nos 2,100 and 2.104, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.99, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators, identical to amendments 2.100, tabled by Senator Mazzoni, and 2.104, tabled by Senator Biinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 2,105, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.105, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,346, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,347, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.106, tabled by Senator Mazzoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.107.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u144	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u146	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, this rule is quite simple, obvious and obvious. It provides that when a person, in order to obtain the contribution, makes false statements, he shall be punished with the withdrawal of the grant itself and an additional penalty equal to 50% of the unfairly obtained financing. If we do not foresee this kind of measures, we do not take educational action and, in some way, we legitimize the idea that smart people can get away with it. It is - I repeat - a penalty consisting of removing what has been grifted by the addition of a fine equal to 50% of the funding obtained. I would remind you that entrepreneurs who miss a tax return or tax document are subject to far greater sanctions. So, we can't make discounts in this case. [[Applause from Senator Donno.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u147	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.107, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,348, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.349, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,350, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators, identical to amendment 2.108, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.109, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.10 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2,351, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2,352, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.353 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.354, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2.20, tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators, up to the word "TV". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.21 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.23 (text 2), tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,124 has been withdrawn. I call on Senators Bencini and Romani Maurizio to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2,125. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission, Amendment 2.26 is impervious. Let us move on to Amendment 2,127, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Bruni (CoR). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,127, tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.355, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.355, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.28 is inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.29, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,356, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Ladies and gentlemen, in order to allow the senators of the New Right Centre to attend their Group meeting, I shall refer the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u150	AMATI (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have rightly and with great emotion recalled the events of the earthquake of 24 August that struck our regions and our land, for which so many people have died and for which so many people have suffered and great difficulties have occurred, although it has reacted very quickly. I would like to recall here a work that has been, in my opinion, precious, because other creatures have suffered because of the earthquake: I think of many animals and the work of ENPA. The National Animal Protection Board has been active with Civil Protection since the morning of August 24. He did a first phase of work and then a second phase. There have been interventions on more than 950 animals. A valuable work has been done both for affectionated animals (more than 300 dogs and more than 200 cats) and for income animals (almost 400); sentient beings essential to the life and affection of the people with whom they had lived up to that time. We were all able to appreciate the moments of great emotion that saw the reunion of animals with the only human representative still present in their family and I think that that value of affinity is another great gift that our world has been able to express. This commitment, with 41 people and with the many means available, from the veterinary ambulance to the motorcycle, must be recognised to ENPA. A large amount of food material (over 15 tonnes of food) has also been supplied. Of course, the reunions were not all possible: on 300 dogs only 4 were equipped with chips. It means that the commitment of our Ministry of Health must be much stronger in the fight against straying. A stronger commitment means giving resources to ASLs and Regions in order to be able to make targeted projects in this respect. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u151	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-676.ana.u152	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 14 September, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.33.
