ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u6	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, I would like to make a complaint in order to prevent everything from being silenced. I fully understand that there can be considerations, such as those carried out by President Pittella or Senator Napolitano, from which it is perceived that democracy is lived as a virus, but I would not want them to pass extremely important facts in silence. I believe that the rules of our democracy are clear and firm. We have already experienced in the past experiences of rating companies that have intervened on the national debate and on what was happening in our country, and I believe that this is extremely regrettable. That Moody's intervenes on what is happening with regard to our referendum debate and threatens evictions depending on the outcome of the referendum I believe is unsustainable. I will denounce him and ask later to use the extract of my speech to make a report to the prosecutor of the Republic of Rome, because I believe it is no longer tolerable that companies of this type intervene on the debate of our country. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups, and the Senators De Pin, Torrisi and Zuffada.]] I intervened to prevent everything from falling into silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u7	Senator, this has little or nothing to do with the order of business. We will then look at the international treaties and perhaps at that stage it would have been more appropriate to have a debate on them.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 119, 1004, 1034, 1931 and 2012, in the unified text proposed by the Commission. I would remind you that during yesterday's afternoon sitting the examination of the articles was completed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u11	ZIZA (CoR). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating today which contains new provisions on protected areas in the text approved by the 13th Senate Commission, amends Law No. 394 of 1991, the framework law on protected areas. The text in question, which takes account of environmental legislation and in particular the European Habitats Directive.. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u12	Colleagues, I invite you to listen to Senator Zizza or at least to be silent.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u13	ZIZA (CoR). ... the conservation of natural habitats and wild fauna and flora in the territory of all Member States of the Union. This text highlights the need to achieve the strategic objectives set out in the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, Conservation of the Sea and Marine Resources, Sustainable Use of the Earth's Ecosystem, taking effective and immediate action to reduce significantly the degradation of natural environments, halting the destruction of biodiversity and protecting endangered species by 2020. Framework Law No 394 of 1991 also contributed, thanks to the work carried out by environmental institutions and associations, to frame parks and protected areas in a regulatory environment. The latter represent a very extensive reality of our peninsula: in fact, from the 2010 data reported from the database of protected areas, the protected land area is about 32,000 square kilometers, almost 10.5 percent of the total, to which are added the more than 28,000 square kilometers of protected area at sea and about 2,300 sites of community importance (SIC), divided into special conservation zones and special protection zones identified by the Regions. We are talking a total of about 24 national parks, 29 protected marine areas and 52 regional parks. Well, twenty-five years have passed since the adoption of the framework law of 1991 and the context has changed profoundly. And if, at institutional level, we have to respond to the European indications that come to us from the direction of EU legislation, the attention and awareness of climate change and environmental protection have increased at environmental level. Today, therefore, we are faced with a global challenge that makes us feel even more decisive in wanting to intervene in the fight through education for sustainability and the valorisation of local territories and economies. Precisely when I talk about turning around, I want to stress the need to change the approach to this topic: an issue that should be of interest to all the municipalities of our country and that represents part of our economic system. The management of parks and protected areas is an economic and social tool useful for the whole community and can be a source of development and integration for a territory, but only and only if it aims at sustainable and green development. The health of the planet and our children and the changes made to the measure that we are discussing today aim to create and strengthen the conditions to improve the functional and management aspects of Italian parks, promoting good practices and the use of natural resources. Protected areas must be a common cultural heritage, and for our part - I am referring to the intensive work done in the Commission - all political parties wanted to make their own contribution to improving the soul of the measure. The parks are important in our territories where they are born; they have become an integral part of a local economy: sustainable tourism, organic farming, services related to the system, branded products. Entering the framework of the bill, we wanted to streamline and simplify the governance of protected areas, eliminating the delays that occur due to the commissioners and the cumbersomeness of the bureaucracy. It seems essential to strengthen the powers of the President and this strengthening of powers will not allow compatibility with any other elective office or office in the administrative bodies of public bodies. With the repeal of the register of park directors there will be a less opaque and more immediate procedure also for the appointment of the director, which will be designated by the board of directors on the basis of a public selection between profiles of proven experience in the management of protected areas. The composition of the board of directors also changes: in fact, from eight to ten members, who will be designated 50% by the community of the park. All this serves to streamline, simplify and make decisions faster and will be responsible - as we have pointed out - to the figure of the appointed president, who will act in close contact with the community of the park under the supervision of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea and the auditors. The goal we would like to reach is to bring the park closer to the territory and the community, because only by creating a communication, an interchange between the territory and the inhabitants will you have a better conservation of the protected area, of the habitats and of the biodiversity. Positive is also the proposal to set up a new committee for protected areas that brings together all national and regional parks, and that within it sees the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea and that of agricultural food and forestry policies, the Regions, the Municipalities, Federparchi and environmental associations, with the aegis and technical support of ISPRA. ISPRA will therefore be called on to provide technical and scientific support, monitoring and environmental control, and will be responsible for identifying operational tools and assessing how to intervene of any kind in protected areas. As has been said, this concept has been extended to areas with special protection, sites of Community importance and special conservation areas. Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Caleo, for the work he has done and for the great cooperation he has given to all of us in the Environment Commission, a work which has enabled us to follow up and voice the requests of the local institutions, establishing a new marine protected area along the seawater mirror overlooking the area of the natural park of the land of the coast of Otranto-Leuca, a small additional piece to ensure the protection of the sea and the environment along one of the most beautiful stretches of the Italian coast. With the hope that our opening signal will follow a similar signal from the Government to make improvements and changes to the regulatory environment in marine protected areas in the future, on behalf of the Conservative and Reformist Group, announce our vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Caleo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u16	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the North League has always considered the contrast of the tendency to loss of biodiversity through the protection of protected areas and ecosystems, also for the preservation of the human species. Our country holds the European primacy in biodiversity and has an important allocation of habitats, many of which have been declared priority at Community level. Nearly 22% of the national territory is protected between national and regional parks, protected marine areas and protected areas at Community level. It is a wealth that needs to be properly exploited, as a real resource of our territory; an opportunity for development, also for tourist purposes and for the preservation of traditions and identities; an opportunity that cannot be treated as a mere territorial constraint, such as to represent a problem especially to the economic activities located inside. According to our Group, the regions and local authorities, i.e. the institutions closest to the needs of the territory and citizens, must play a key role, they must be responsible for the governance of protected areas and landscape planning. But here we go in the opposite direction. One of the important changes proposed by the bill is the simplification for the establishment of marine protected areas, including the extension of national land parks in adjacent marine protected areas. Unfortunately, however, it is not possible to establish marine protected areas and marine reserves also by the Regions, in order to avoid double management for the sea stretches adjacent to the regional protected areas with burdens on public finances. Another concept not to be shared is the identification of a territory adjacent to the park area, which is subject to the governance of the park body itself. We do not like that the regulation of the park can regulate in the contiguous areas the activities of hunting, fishing, mining activities and for the protection of the environment, subtracting competences to the Municipality and the Region. On the royalties, although it is understandable the objective of finding funding for park budgets, given the shortage of state resources, we do not share the imposition of royalties on the concessions of economic activities in protected areas and, even, in those in adjacent areas, which will have to pay, clearly running the risk of being put into economic difficulty. And what about the government's much-laundered simplification of administrative procedures? On the one hand the provisions of the service conference are simplified; on the other hand, on the other hand, we eliminate the silence assent on the inertia of the Park Authority in expressing the opinion on the infrastructural interventions, also for the cases of minor building interventions. We believe that the inertia of the Park Authority should not and should not lead to the paralysis of the administrative authorisation procedures. Another issue that we denounce is the elimination of compensation for wildlife damage in the adjacent areas of the park. It does not understand the ratio of the norm, since the bill extends precisely the governance and regulation of the park also to the contiguous areas, but restricts the possibility of compensation in the area of the park, eliminating the compensations that could be more burdensome for the park institutions, but less acceptable for the damaged citizens. The bill also presents positive provisions - we do not deny this - such as the reduction of the bodies of the institutions through the elimination of the junta, the decrease of the members of the Governing Council and the auditors, and more. But, always on the subject of governance, we do not share the expected silence-consent on the understanding with the Region for the nomination of the president of the Park Authority. The absence of the understanding of the Region for the nomination of the president is in general a centralization of the management in charge of the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea. And I would like to point out that the first Commission, by censoring it, has defined this provision as incongruity. With reference to hunting activity, the change is highly penalising and humiliating for all Italian citizens and hunters, among other things without any need, without any need, since to date there has been a good balance between protected areas and planned hunting areas. The changes that in practice give the complete management of Natura 2000 sites to the managing bodies of the parks, although outside the protected area, are unacceptable and turn them all into adjacent areas to the parks and reserves. While under current law hunting in areas adjacent to protected areas is regulated by the Regions, Article 5 states instead that the regulation is the responsibility of the Park Authority, and even with the opinion of ISPRA that, in the case of regional protected areas, it becomes binding. While under current law the park, established ecological imbalances, can attempt to recompose them with faunal levies and selective killings, authorizing in practice hunting, with the modification is explicitly inserted the absolute prohibition of hunting activity in national and regional parks, therefore making clear the will to prohibit also a possible derogation through the regulation of the park. It is clear to all that the modification has been strongly desired and sponsored by all the environmental and animalist associations of the left, which will lead to an absolute centralization of the power in the hands of the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea and above all of ISPRA, with the consequent complete degradation of any decision-making and management power of the local authorities present on the territory where the parks fall. We don't like this. It is not only against the protection of the cultural and identity traditions of our peoples who live in these places that today are called parks, but also against any logic of federalism and decentralisation. Colleagues, see that the centralist constitutional reform has only had the green light in your dreams, because since the evening of December 4 you will have to deal with a reality quite different from the one you want. On the establishment of the Po Delta Park, with its delegation to the Government, I reiterate in summary the position of the Group of the North League already expressed amply yesterday, on the occasion of the explanation of vote abstaining from Article 25, which reflects the will of the institutions and communities of the local territory. There is absolute opposition to the hypothesis of national park: governance must remain at the head of the territories. It is not acceptable that the setting up of a single park should be prodromic at the birth of a national park, as the rapporteur, Mr Caleo, said, despite the fact that Mr Vaccari has tried to reduce it. There is a clear opposition to the extension of the park area and the introduction of new constraints on the territory. The park must be interpreted not as a straitjacket, but as an element of development and promotion of the territory and human activities existing in it, in particular fishing, valley farming, agriculture and hunting. Finally, there must be full involvement of local institutions and production groups. It would never be accepted a park that is the result of the only vision of environmental associations and that bypasses the institutional and economic representatives of the territory. I shall start with the conclusions, Mr President. I had said in general discussion that the Lega Nord-Autonomie Group would take a careful look at the amendment phase for the final assessments and considerations on the measure. Unfortunately, all our amendments have been rejected, leaving in the text, in addition to the (few) lights, many shadows, which lead to even worse the framework law of the protected areas. The Autonomous Regions and Provinces are increasingly deprived of power, even with provisions limiting their constitutional prerogatives in this area, as the 1st Permanent Commission has pointed out and also denounced. It is, therefore, a further centralization that goes in the opposite direction to the one desired and drawn in the past, in the previous legislature, by the North League. It is for this reason that, unfortunately, our Group, taking note of the work done in this House, will vote against the measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u19	DE PIN (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard from many quarters in this House say that protected areas in our country are a treasure trove of beauty, landscape values, extremely rich biodiversity, but also of culture, agro-food traditions, history. And this certainly answers the truth. That is why we can rest assured that, starting from the law n. 394 of 1991, the history of the protection of the Italian natural heritage had all the premises to be positive. This law, in fact, deserves the credit of having set up - for the first time - a true system of protected areas of enormous value and wealth. At the same time, awareness has grown in recent years of how the protected areas should be considered as common goods to be protected and safeguarded, and the attitude of the populations regarding the protected territories has gradually changed. Therefore, the situation has certainly improved compared to the 1990s. In fact, Italy is the European country that has established the largest number of protected areas in Europe. This has been used in part to limit cementification and soil consumption. However, we must say that the potential of Law No. 394 could not be fully expressed, for various reasons such as - for example - the attitude of politics, which has tried in the years to distort in any way the role that the law had clearly attributed to parks and reserves, namely to pursue a mission of conservation and promotion of naturalistic values. The other reason is linked to the economic resources, which have become increasingly scarce, putting the parks increasingly in difficulty compared to the functions to be performed, a situation that has amplified with the accession to the last European treaties. Therefore, a reform on the management of parks and protected areas was certainly appropriate, in the light of the past, but a reform that aimed at the removal of the critical issues emerged in twenty-five years: from the politicization of the managing bodies to the financial, structural and management problems of the protected areas; not to mention the need to make a point on the involvement of the local populations. To this end, the question that needs to be asked is: are the delays and shortcomings that we have experienced in recent years really due to regulatory defects or are they mainly due to political reasons? Only starting from a concrete answer can we hope that protected areas can become part of a more effective process of conservation of our extraordinary biodiversity, but also of the promotion and correct management of the territory. The text we are examining today fails to fully address the issue of park governance, rather it highlights the weakening of state prerogatives in relation to pressure in the local area. On the management bodies of the park it seems to me that a certain superficiality is clear in not wanting to deepen the issue of the competences that must possess, for example, the director of the park. We must be very careful that the naturalistic values of a protected area are not commercialised and therefore pay attention not to barter absenteeisms or favorable opinions for certain interventions against the prospect of an economic take-up, formalized in the concept of royalty. Therefore, while it is true that there are some acceptable rules in the reform proposed by this text, we cannot help but point out that, unless there is a genuine effort to make these rules effective on the ground of practical application, we may find ourselves faced with yet another disappointment at the fact that any good law, if it does not find fruitful ground in its daily operation, can be unproductive of the effects hoped for, if not even harmful. Therefore, on behalf of the Group of the Grand Autonomous and Freedoms Group, and in accordance with the various sensitivities within the Group, I am voting for my abstention.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u22	Mr Iurlaro (AL-A). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the in-depth debate in which we have taken part in this House reveals a peaceful fact, namely that the mission of the protected areas is to provide instruments for the protection of biodiversity, the landscape, geological formations and the common goods in which they are located, as well as instruments for mitigation and adaptation to climate change. This territory must be linked to the territorial matrix of a vast area through ecological networks and landscape planning, because the valorization of the natural heritage concerns not only economic valorization, but also the recognition of the material and immaterial value of the natural and landscape heritage, ecosystem and cultural heritage. The EU Biodiversity Strategy plans to halt biodiversity loss by 2020. In this sense the revision of Law No. 394 of 1991, even with the manifest desire to create new protected areas, is a sensitive indicator to understand if our country is on the right path to help achieve the European objectives. There has certainly been much progress in many areas, but there is a need for more intensive efforts to meet Member States' implementation commitments. Nature's ability to clean air and water, pollinate crops and limit the impact of disasters such as floods is compromised, with potential high and unforeseen costs for society and our economy. A recently published European opinion poll confirms that the majority of European citizens are concerned about the consequences of the loss of biodiversity and is aware of the negative impact this can have on the health and well-being of the human species and, therefore, also on our long-term economic development. Firstly, Member States must better implement European legislation on nature protection. More than three quarters of the main natural habitats in the EU are currently in poor condition, and many species are at risk of extinction. The effective halt to biodiversity loss also depends on how effectively issues related to biodiversity are integrated into internal policies on agriculture, forestry, fisheries, regional development and trade. The reform of the common agricultural policy offers the possibility of greater integration of biodiversity issues, but the extent to which Member States will implement measures at national level will be decisive in ensuring their success. Finally, it is necessary to recognize and appreciate for its proper value our natural capital, not only within the limits of the protected areas but in general in our territory and in our seas. The restoration of natural habitats and the construction of green infrastructure continue to pose challenges for our country. This strategy should have various benefits for a number of sectors, including agriculture, forestry and fisheries. Invasive alien species are one of the fastest growing threats to biodiversity in Europe, causing significant damage to agriculture, forestry and fisheries, at a cost in the European Union of at least EUR 12 billion per year. On a global scale, the European Union contributes to a large extent to halt the loss of biodiversity. Together with its Member States, the European Union is the main financial donor for the conservation of biodiversity, but it is also true that Italy stands as the first country in Europe for quantity of protected territory. Let us therefore reiterate our appreciation because, starting from Law No. 394, which still remains a good law, with this bill our country has taken a new step forward. I am referring in particular to the integration between Natura 2000 areas and protected areas, with the forecast that the management of SCI and SPA can be entrusted to the territorially neighbouring park bodies. This is something not to be underestimated, because parks are the only people with the know-how and specialized staff needed to manage these areas. We have said this in general debate and we repeat it here: we can only agree with the rules of simplification and cost reduction on park management bodies. We agree with the deletion of the park junta, and we also welcome the rule that the park president is incompatible with other institutional positions. On the other hand, the role of President of the park requires a commitment so intense that it is not compatible with other institutional activities. As for the infamous park plans, then, we believe that it is an epochal turning point to have introduced the principle of silence-acceptance in case the competent Region refrains from issuing its opinion within twelve months from the transmission by the park agency; in these twenty-five years only eight national parks have obtained the approval of the plans by the competent Regions. Of course, every law is perfectible, and the excellent perhaps is the enemy of the good. We believe that this measure is, however, an improvement in the general context and, therefore, we support it. [[Applause from the AL-A Group and Senator Caleo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u25	LANIECE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, at last the amendment of Law No 394 of 1991, historic legislative reference on protected areas, with the approval of the Senate Assembly today, reaches an important milestone in its parliamentary process. I must stress that this parliamentary term is giving very important attention to environmental issues and its protection. I also want to remind you of the approval, a few months ago, of the environmental connection. The need to update park legislation had already been highlighted during the past parliamentary term. The modernisation of this legislation has become necessary for several reasons and, above all, because in twenty-five years - it was 1991 - many things have happened, including the advent and the necessary link with European legislation and the change in the relationship with nature by the world population. Today we are talking about green economy and health protection increasingly linked to the protection of the environment in which we live. The protected areas must therefore be able to be inserted by law in this new concept of positive integration of the cycle of life of man and of all living beings with the nature that welcomes us and surrounds us. Another element to consider is the taking of action, finally, that all protected areas cannot be placed under a glass bell, removed from all the environment that surrounds them and, above all, from the activity of man. In fact, very often human activity, for example agropastoral activity, has allowed, with a harmonious and respectful presence in our wonderful territories, a real protection of flora and fauna and the development over the centuries of an anthropization that has proved necessary for a good governance of the territory. This measure therefore seeks to maintain the beauty of our parks, but by harmonizing the activity of man, where present, with the need to protect the environment. It is a more modern and intelligent form of management, in order to give future generations an increasingly protected nature and to promote an education to sustainability and the valorization of local territories and economies. I do not go into the specific content of the provision, which has already been extensively explained in the speeches of the rapporteur, Senator Caleo, and other colleagues in the general discussion. However, I would just like to highlight a couple of aspects relating to Alpine autonomy. This measure recognises important aspects. First of all, I would like to stress the approval of an amendment to my first signature (shared by the Group for the Autonomies but also by the entire Commission territory, environment, environmental goods), which finally welcomes a legitimate request from the communities - both Piedmontese and Valdostane - of the Gran Paradiso National Park, establishing that the legal and administrative offices of the Park will be located within the municipalities within the boundaries of the Park itself. I remember that, to date, the registered office is located in Turin, while the administrative one in Aosta (so the distance between the territory of the park and the locations can reach more than 150 kilometers). In this way we will reduce not only the physical distance, but also the distance that, in some cases over the years, has been characterized by tense relationships between the local populations and the park. In perspective, the move of the premises can also represent an employment opportunity for those young heroics and their families living in our rugged valleys of Piedmont and the Aosta Valley, continuing to believe in the survival of our Alpine civilization. I would also like to express satisfaction, even after the intervention made by my colleague from the Lega Nord Group, for the acceptance of the rule that safeguards the competences of the autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, the Region of Valle d'Aosta and the other Regions with special status, as well as for the confirmation of the agreement with the State for the special management of the Stelvio National Park by the Trentino-Alto Adige and Lombardy regions and for the confirmation of the competences of the Aosta Valley Autonomous Region in the management of the Gran Paradiso National Park. I should like to end by thanking the rapporteur, Senator Massimo Caleo, Senator Vaccari, and the President of the 13th Commission, Giuseppe Marinello, for the attention it has given us, and to Mr De Salvo, with the whole structure of the Commission. Allow me, not least, to say a special thank you to the Undersecretary Barbara Degani, recognizing her a way of working that perhaps is no longer very current, that is, sober and competent. For all these reasons, I announce the favorable vote of the Group For the Autonomous, Italian Socialist Party and MAYE. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u28	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, even today in the explanations of vote many have recalled the importance of the approval, twenty-five years ago, of the law on protected areas; that law has represented for our country, in all these years, a set of actions and, in the end, of absolutely fundamental results. The law - I would like to remind him - was born not only on the wave of an environmental movement that was strongly affirmed within the country, but above all by the conviction, then widely shared, that the natural system of our country, composed of a synthesis - sometimes even miraculous - between history, nature and action of man (I think of the agricultural landscapes), should be preserved and therefore should have a system of protection. What was the purpose of the parks and protected areas? Their fundamental mission was the preservation of nature. The first parks are born and consolidated (some, like the Abruzzo National Park, were extraordinary experiences long before the framework law) often also with the hostility - we know perfectly well - of the municipalities and local communities, which identified in the birth of the park a limit to their possibilities, their skills and their activities. Over time, however, a strong conviction has been established very often: we have had many cases in which administrations and municipalities that were excluded from the perimeter of the park asked to enter it. In fact, as I have argued several times, the system of parks has represented for our country a real engine of development, healthy and of quality and fundamental embankment to the consumption of the soil, in a country like Italy in which we still fight from morning to evening against the consumption of soil (while we speak we are already cementing thousands and thousands of hectares). It was, therefore, a very valuable instrument. The parks have prevented the destruction of the most valuable landscapes, have played the role of guardians of a heritage of environmental resources that is irreplaceable and that is our possibility of life. In fact, maintaining biodiversity and protecting natural habitats means giving the human species the opportunity to live as well. All this needed serious and constant policies in the field of resources; instead, the last few years have been heavy. In fact, while parks have given all this to our country, politics and governments have given very little. There has been a constant cut of resources and organic plants. Therefore, the intervention on Law No 394 of 1991 had to focus primarily on the question of resources. Today, however, we are faced with a reform of Law No. 394 (which all define a good law) which has the ambition to be at zero cost. But what is actually on the field? The issue of royalty is presented here as compensation for harmful activities and facilities that fall within the parks; I continue to stress the danger of this approach. I had hoped that, in the work of the House, this issue would be really addressed and resolved. We have achieved small results, in the sense that the fund has been divided into two parts: a 50% going to the park and the other 50% going to the fund set up at the Ministry of the Environment, but the danger of conditioning and, in a sense, also of commodification is very strong and we absolutely cannot accept it, because it concerns precisely the approach with which we wanted to approach the intervention on Law 394. This law - as everyone has emphasized - certainly needed to be updated, very well, but in the meantime we should have solved the structural nodes, in the first place that of the resources, and not in this way. The other key issue, in our view, is governance. Let us be clear: when I spoke about the successes of Law No. 394 and the parks, these were achieved through an approach - which was, in my opinion, the correct one - that natural, fauna and biodiversity are unavailable assets of the State. So, precisely in governance, this very clear constitutional assumption had to be strengthened. In defining governance, it was necessary to focus on operations that rewarded and promoted quality, rather than allowing governance itself to be pressed into the side and permeated by local interests. The approach of representation of general and widespread interests, competences and scientific approach had to be strengthened. Skills, general and widespread interests and scientific approach: this is what has allowed parks to grow in recent years and we had to aim for strengthening governance. Instead, what really comes to mind is that a completely reverse operation has been carried out; so the governance of the parks, alas, has been put at the service - this is the most dangerous element - of local interests. We know perfectly well that if Law 394, twenty-five years ago, had indicated, in the governance of the managing bodies, directly the municipalities, we would not have had in these twenty-five years the results we know. We must recognize this: the conflicts that we have faced in recent years have been exactly what they saw, unfortunately, opposed an idea perhaps wrong of development (which came from municipal administrations) and the park itself. Instead, the park represented the possibility of preserving, protecting and putting in the field completely different and productive development ideas for the territories. Many of the marginal territories of our country, had there not been parks, would have fallen into total abandonment. Instead, this setting has produced results. What are we gonna do today? After-work here, too? Oh, come on. Or, as someone thinks that the yes will win in the referendum, are you already thinking about how to find a place when the Senate is no longer there? See that this is not only a wrong way of intervening, but it will have absolutely negative effects. I am sorry, because I had thought that, in the debate in this House and through amendments, this absolutely wrong approach could have been corrected. Another sensitive issue is the management of fauna. Interests, as has also been seen in this House, have been countered between those who think it is necessary to find tools and measures to ensure that, in some way, the hunting activity is back on track and those who, like us, have put you on guard: the fact that they have not clarified this aspect and have not made sure that the fauna management plan was only at the service of a scientific approach for the protection of biodiversity and species and for the protection of biodiversity even animal and therefore have left the shadow cone of the mixing with the hunting activity, since they did not want to accept that the operations, even selective, are carried out only and exclusively by the internal personnel and the public security forces, do not protect the parks from this combination. I very much hope that improvements can be made to the House of Deputies, otherwise we would have done a reform operation - let us not use this word anymore - of Law No 394 of 1991, which risks betraying the spirit of this legislation, which has produced important results. That is why, reluctantly, we shall be voting against the draft law under consideration, in the hope that the House of Deputies will be able to change these twists, because I am going to repeat that the parks needed something else, namely resources, structures, skills and investing in governance that is up to the times we live. I don't want to hear rhetorical words anymore: let's leave them alone! Parks really represent the possibility of a different and important development for a country like ours, where beauty could really be the harbinger of development. To do this, however, it was necessary to aim for quality governance and not reduce parks to the post-work of someone who may not have many other things to do. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u31	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, having to announce the AP Group (NCD-UDC)'s vote in favour of this draft law, there were several approaches that could have been taken in my speech. I also had a written track, but I turned it upside down after listening to Senator De Petris, who preceded me. Mrs De Petris knows better than I that Law No 394 was passed on December 6, 1991. It was another Italy, at the head of the government there was Giulio Andreotti, there was the so-called pentaparty and the strong role of the relative majority party, that is, Christian Democracy. Senator De Petris will have to resign: I believe that by 2016, with the Renzi-Alfano Government, we will have a new law, which is a good law, which will regulate the system for the coming years. We share some of the arguments put forward by Mrs De Petris in the preamble to the importance and value of the parks, but we come to completely different conclusions. These are, of course, divisive and controversial subjects and this is demonstrated by the long parliamentary process of the draft law under consideration, with more than 25 hearings, 36 sessions, countless conferences, which here in Rome and throughout the national territory have fueled a debate, not only in politics and between politics, but among politics, environmental organisations and also the authorities managing the parks and local communities, the almost 1900 amendments, and - believe me, Mr President - with infinite patience we have come to the result. I must acknowledge to Senator Caleo his passion, interest, competence and great and infinite patience in carrying forward this provision. Had it not been for its good virtues and qualities, we will probably not be here today. Of course, this long iter gives us an idea of the complexity of the norm and the issues that we face with it. Surely even a better text could come out. There are, for example, some aspects that I have not personally fully shared, but we know that we cannot cut out reality and norms in our image and likeness. Anyone who imagines the world to be what they want can take great tranves, like some internationally renowned newspaper in the last American electoral affair, where all opinionists imagined a world of their own resemblance, except then clash with reality. The reality is, in fact, quite different and the legislative process is proving it: different thesis are being compared; different arguments come out and in the end we arrive at the composition of the rules through compromises, which are never something ignoble or that must make us think of a decrease, but a sign of reasonableness and balance of the rules. I believe that we have reached this result not only from the regulatory point of view because, in predicting the potential of the park and the park in general, we have synthesized the experiences of the previous twenty-five years, marking the premises for further development. We have positively redefined the role of the Park President, which I believe is significantly strengthened. We have given transparency to the issue of the appointment of the directors of the parks, which had become a sort of caste and closed lobby. Instead, we have made sure that new figures and new professionalism can emerge in a positive way. We have exalted the role of the National Technical Committee and we have defined exactly the meaning of the park plan with what follows. In my opinion, we have also found the right mediation on the issue of the royalties of the installations present by identifying the shares of resources that must go to the institution and the shares of resources that must feed a national fund managed by the Ministry of the Environment. I also want to reassure those who have concerns about the issue of the Po Delta. We must first say that the Po Delta has its own specificity and uniqueness throughout Europe. I believe that this is the biggest delta in Europe. Certainly there will be an important intervention of the local communities and there will be a fundamental co-decision role of the regions. We will do exactly what not only the Ministry of the Environment will show from above in a dirigistic way, but above all what the local communities and regional policies of Emilia-Romagna and Veneto will want. This alarmism is completely unjustified. Let me say one thing (I am sorry that Mrs De Petris has left): it is never a good policy or a good attitude to have such absolute certainties. Who in life has absolute certainties, evidently is brought tremendously to the risk of error and this risk very often becomes a certainty. I realize that in the youthful readings of my colleague De Petris and other colleagues who are fed by this sacred fire of certainties there have not been the writings of Saint Augustine, but there is always time to make up for it and we can think of giving some good books for the upcoming Christmas holidays. The vote must, in my opinion, be given firmly; it must be a positive vote and it must come out of a large majority. In my view, in fact, we have found the balance and the possibility of expressing through this text the needs of interests that very often appear conflicting. In this regard, I would like to conclude by expressing my personal opinion that I probably do not commit the entire Group to which I belong: we must stop imagining in a demonic way the figure of those who work hunting. Those who practice hunting activity, in fact, is almost all a sportsman, a subject who cares and respects the environment and who wants certain rules to conform to. It is therefore quite clear that we must interpret the figure of those who practice hunting as a guardian of the environment, also because - let's say very frankly - if it were not so, it would enter into a conflict of interests that would eventually become self-destructive for the exercise of their sport. We must therefore end with these religious wars that lead absolutely nowhere. Colleagues, we can therefore move on with calm and serenity to vote in favour of this bill, which I hope will be finally approved by the House of Deputies by the end of the year. I would like to end by thanking all the members of the Commission who have worked hard to achieve this result, but also the staff of the Senate and in particular that of the 13th Mr De Salvo, Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate Mr De Salvo on his excellent report. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u32	We greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education Edoardo Amaldi in Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u35	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, what happened in the debate on the amendments in this House? Nothing new or almost nothing. The introduction of paragraph 5 -bis of Article 11 of Law No. 394 of 1991, which recognized in Federparchi the ownership of representation of all the managing bodies, was eliminated; perhaps it was noticed that it was an unconstitutional norm, or perhaps it was introduced just to be able to eliminate it and show how much was available. Then an agenda was adopted to retain the competence of the State Forestry Corps at the parks in terms of protection, but the amendment from which it originated was not approved (and we know how much weight the agendas have for this Government). On the other hand, in the plans for the management of wildlife control, the word has been removed: "vincolante" with reference to the opinion of ISPRA; therefore the opinion of the institute will no longer be binding in these important management plans, where we would have wanted them to have much more binding limits: territorial, temporal and numerical limits. I then listened to the President of the 13th Marinello Commission. Alas, when I entered the Senate, I thought that those who sat in that Commission were particularly concerned with these values, but I heard them say that we must stop demonizing the hunting activity and continuing this war of religion: surely this is a vision of the world other than mine, which I personally do not share. There is nothing new about governance, so the only certainty is that we did not want to reflect and reason on this as much as the oppositions have emphasized it, therefore on the competences in the field of conservation and the protection of biodiversity: certainties that did not want to move. Nothing about the self-financing of the parks to be carried out with royalty, hunting and sale of the brand, except - I admit - the forecast that 50% of these revenues go to a dedicated ministerial fund. In our opinion, it was necessary, in order to maintain these revenues, for the fund to be all ministerial and bound to specific competences in order to remove, as I said earlier, from the embarrassment of the managing bodies of the park. Because here there is a clear conflict of interest: I am referring to the interest in self-financing, in supporting oneself, by giving or not giving extensions to authorisations or giving its mark to those who may not have the merit of it. Nothing new about silence-absence; environmental permits were snatched at the Superintendence. The rapporteur assures us that they have heard the Mibact on this point and that they are all happy and agree. I hope that there will also be an opportunity in the House to request the hearing of the representatives of the Superintendence, since we have not been given this opportunity and given that the rapporteur's amendment - of course - has come far beyond the hearings. We still have a bill that is perfectly in line with government policy (because it was dictated by the Government), although it is a draft parliamentary law that has put together more proposals that really, at first, have seen a good discussion and participation of all. But then, after he had been stuck for a long time, he took the chase with an unknown but very long number of amendments by the rapporteur - dictated by the Government in my opinion - and sub-amendments, mostly rejected. So the many amendments that have been mentioned, the great effort that has been made in the Commission, has been all formal. The rapporteur's amendments, which have completely distorted the logic of the review work being carried out in the Commission's working group, have therefore been pursued a long time ago. We still have the hands of politics on the parks, increasingly hostage of partitions and local interests, with a president and a director who may not know anything about the environment and who are exposed to the pressures of private individuals who pay royalty to pollute, then forced - when the concessions are renewed - to choose between the conservation of nature without compromise and the possibility of pocketing some euros to cope with chronic economic constraints. This is a piece taken from a comment made by one of the major environmental associations: those with which the rapporteur says he has concerted the changes to the framework law on parks? That sounds kind of weird to me. That is why I declare the 5 Star Movement's vote against. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u38	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to say that I am sorry that Senator D'Alì is not present, who has been an extensor of the bill No 119 of 2013, which had already seen in the last parliamentary term a rather accomplished process, but which then failed to become a law. We are talking about 871 protected areas with a territory of 32,000 kilometers on land and 28,000 kilometers on the sea: such a dimension that surely creates an important interest for our nation. What is interesting about the measure is above all the fact that the limits of the legislation in force in this matter have been exceeded and that a law that is now 25 years old has been updated, having been promulgated on 6 December 1991 (I refer to Law No. 394), making it certainly more current: it was a good law, but it needed to be updated. Overcoming the limits of existing legislation and overcoming that contrast between the defence of the environment and the development of the economy of the territories: this is the basic principle that inspires the new law. Above all, a new philosophy must be introduced in addressing environmental issues for the protection of areas that are not only environmental. A new concept for the protected areas, of what is their real function on the territory and, in particular, on the economy and socio-economic development, especially for the employment part, that it will be able to give throughout the country. The aim was to strengthen the development of the protected natural area by ensuring the protection of biodiversity, landscape, flora and fauna, and by harmonizing with socio-economic development through actions to simplify legislation in the activities of the areas themselves. The difficulties of the past have been overcome, for example, those of certain parks in supporting the territory with its products, tourist accommodation, with the consequent absence of actions useful to the maintenance of human activity in the territories of competence. It was therefore essential to find a balanced level of mediation between two hitherto opposed concepts: environmental protectionism and attempts at speculation. A balance that I believe has been found with this law and that, in any case, involves the actors of the local realities in an important way. With this law there has been a greater collaboration between local authorities and environmental realities; it is also proposed to stop a blind opposition, which in some cases has served to maintain only positions of power and not to realize the interests of the territories. We would therefore like this philosophy of the use of valuable environmental areas by man in a positive sense to continue and, after a period of conflict (repeat, between extremes of environmental protection and extremes of speculation), to be again a wise and precise way of economic development. Overcoming the contrasts serves that wisdom that is present in the law and that has involved all experiences, sensibilities and participations of the territory. That is why it is essential now to involve all those skills and professionalism that contribute to the promotion of the activities of the parks, including experiences outside the scope of public administration and management, in some cases, too bureaucratic to date. The new governance of the park bodies is extended we could tell the stakeholders present in the territories. Firstly, farmers, who are then the first guardians of the environment, because there cannot and must not be a contrast between agricultural activity and the environment, but there must be a profound integration between these realities. So the breeders, who have done many demonstrations in Sardinia against the park of Gennargentu for an efficient use of the territory; use and also control of the territory, because farmers and farmers also have an important role in the control of the territory, not least because of the problem of fires that we all know in Sardinia. The importance of the conservation of the environment and the hydrogeological structure by those who devote themselves to the cultivation of the land can therefore be doubted. On these issues, the challenges of skills that have been made available to the Park Guide have been addressed with attention to the interest of the environment. The fundamental objective must also be to preserve the biodiversity of native plants and breeds and has been maintained. Really great is the importance of the protected areas on the environment of our country and it will be necessary to stimulate both the repopulation of the animal species, that of the man. This does not mean that speculations of any kind are carried out, but promotes the recovery and responsible use, for example, of old rural buildings for tourist activities, which integrate into the economy of the parks areas. What we would like to stress is that with this draft law the mistrust between local authorities and park authorities is finally diminished and resumes a dialogue between those who deal with the government of the territory and those of the environment. Park governance is being streamlined, police stations are being stopped and agreements are not being reached. The figure of the President of the park becomes stronger, which foresees in his appointment the understanding of the Region in which the park insists. This figure is identified by a tern of proven experience and qualification and becomes incompatible with the elective positions and positions in the administrative bodies of public bodies. The same care will be put in place for the composition of the board, consisting of six to eight members, which will be designated 50% by the community of the park and will have the task to appoint the director of the park itself. You will not, therefore, lose contact with the territory. Of course, it is regrettable that a number of amendments have not been adopted to improve the law in question. This does not mean that the objective of improving Law No. 394 has not been pursued and therefore, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, I announce the vote in favour. [[Applause from GroupFI-PdL XVII and Senators Caleo and Laniece. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u41	VACCARI (PD). Dear President, kind Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of a long and partisan journey, we have finally come to discuss in this House the amendments to Law No 394 of 1991. For this result I would like to thank, in addition to the Minister, the Undersecretary Degani and all the members of the 13th The Commission (starting with President Marinello), first of all the rapporteur, Mr Massimo Caleo, who, with passion, competence and tenacity, carried out this great work from the beginning to the end. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is another part of the reforms that is in place, because whether we want to recognise it or not, the Parliament that has legislated more in environmental matters, bringing to a conclusion what has not been possible in the past legislation, is precisely this. There has been so much talk in recent days of this reform, even to the contrary, with the aim of distorting the reality of things and opposing the change of a strategic law such as No. 394, which had, of course, given good self-esteem in these twenty-five years, but which undoubtedly had to be updated and corrected in order to best correspond to the ultimate goal for which it had been approved: to define, that is, clear rules to protect fauna and flora in areas of environmental value and make them an opportunity for the development of those territories in legality. Yes, in legality, because we have been asked by many presidents of national parks; presidents like Giuseppe Antoci, who in that role is personally risking his life carrying out an important garrison of legality and greeting with warmth, because he is present in our work. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] Since October 2014, when the unified text was incardinated in the Commission, there has been a wide-ranging and articulated discussion, preceded by the listening of dozens of stakeholders, without any exclusion, followed by the proposed phase by colleagues with thousands of amendments tabled, discussed and many of which were accepted. The unified text, therefore, comes to this House as an important change from a confrontation, mediation and sharing between the various political forces, who here in this House, once again, are more concerned with distinguishing themselves and distorting the reality and path that has been taken, after they had worked hard in the Commission to bring their amendments home. Even the work done here in the House, of further integration (30 proposals were accepted) tells us of a capacity for listening and confrontation by the rapporteur and the Government, which unfortunately has not been grasped, nor recognized by the explanations of final vote, often prejudiced, by some political forces. But what are parks in our country today? Very simply one could say places of beauty and development laboratories that all institutions should value more as an essential part of their identity and wealth. In fact, the word "park" does not appear in any article of our Constitution, but finds full correspondence in the values interpreted today by their activity and identity within Article 9, among the fundamental principles, where it is stated that: The Republic promotes the development of culture and scientific and technical research. It protects the landscape and the historical heritage of the Nation. It was President Ciampi who reminded him very well in his speech of May 5, 2003, on the occasion of the delivery of gold medals to the meritorites of culture and art, when he rightly emphasized that the presence among the fundamental principles of this article offers an important indication on the "mission" of our homeland, on a way of thinking and living to which we want, we must be faithful. This is the true meaning of this choice: a mission, a way of life and of thinking that Law No. 394 gave a body and legs on which to grow and walk. Now we need to do this better, with more appropriate instruments and in step with the times, that they no longer see the other vision of parks than the context in which they are inserted, but increasingly integrated and in relation to other institutions, businesses, civil society and the private social. It is necessary to find more advanced solutions, without shyness or uncertainty, in order to strengthen the legislation on parks, because their future is linked to double thread with the quality and competitiveness of the Italy system. That is why it deserves to be answered to the level, to give the sense that this strategic area can and must be an innovative response to the economic crisis that we are experiencing. Of these answers to the challenge, the law that we will approve today contains many. I just want to remember a few of the most significant ones. Firstly, the governance of the parks has been put in hand to overcome anachronistic methods of appointment of the Presidents, who had not produced the desired result but often stables and long-term Commissariats, with methods that do not sacrifice on the competences, instead widening to figures able to make available managerial professionalities of complex bodies, which are increasingly necessary. There has been action to overcome the register of directors, in line with the reform of the public administration that has introduced the single role for public managers, opening up to new competences hitherto excluded and generate only with public selection. The representation in the councils has been extended to the stakeholders of the communities of the parks, starting from the mayors, - yes, the mayors, who continue to be the maximum direct expression of the citizens - and involving the world of agriculture that in the last twenty years has been the most valid ally of the parks, allowing to combine the protection of the environment with the quality agriculture and the typical productions certified, the legality and the economy of the supply chain. As you can see and read in the text, there is no localistic drift or a dequalification of skills, but only a choice - to say it with a no more new term - glacal: a valorization of the local communities, to make the global thought on the parks stronger and more incisive. Secondly, we have been concerned about improving the instruments and measures for the protection of biodiversity, and I would have expected a reference to this from my colleague De Petris, rather than getting lost in air chasms about someone's after-work. The environmental planning of the park management bodies is also entrusted to the areas of the Natura 2000 network, the sites of Community interest (SIC), the special protection zones (ZPS) and the special conservation zones (ZSC) that are included or only contiguous to the territory of the park without changing the norms of protection and prevention, providing the extension to sea of the land parks bordering marine protected areas in order to clarify and define in a homogeneous way the actions of protection to be pursued, including the contiguous areas in the planning of the park of understanding with the Regions (and no longer on the initiative of the latter, which had created an absolutely uneven situation in the Country), rewriting the modalities of management of the wildlife, that sanction once and for all the law the prohibition of hunting in the park areas, and providing for a hierarchy in the modalities of intervention for the eradication of the harmful and alloctonous species. A hierarchy that will pass first from non-bloody methods, where possible (methods that with this law are financed for the first time permanently), to arrive at the hunting of selection with adequately trained personnel, subject to binding opinion of the ISPRA (not on the contiguous areas, where there had never been) for a reason above all and, with good peace of colleagues, a scientific reason: for a long time the most important European and Italian organizations that operate in the field of conservation have certified that alien species are the second cause of loss of biodiversity in the world, after the alteration of the habitat. The third question concerns the resources and assets of the parks. For the first time, after the approval of Law No 221 of 2015, better known as related environment, we implement the forecast on the economic valorization of natural capital, so-called ecosystem services. We do this in two ways: by introducing, on the one hand, a delegation to the Government to identify criteria and unique methods to reward the different services and, on the other, by providing royalty for the first phase of application. It will be resources allocated to both national and regional parks, at 50%, to be taken from the owners of energy networks that cross the parks' territories. And I would like to make it clear, in the face of misunderstandings and prejudices that some people wanted to imply, that these are existing networks. Alongside these measures we have included specific benefits for the municipalities of the smaller islands where there are protected parks and marine areas and we have been concerned to find a solution for unused state property. Last but not least, the choice made on bureaucratic simplification. In my past experience as chairman of a regional park in Emilia-Romagna - I address my colleague De Petris, who spoke of someone's after-work: unlike her, someone in the Commission had had had a past experience on the subject - in the first place in the complaints of citizens and businesses resident there have always been administrative delays when there was the need to put hand to the existing building. And what did we do, in front of the citizen or the enterprise? We presented ourselves with three different subjects (the municipality, the park and the superintendence). Today we will move to a shared planning of the park with the superintendence and with the Region, after which will be the body park itself the only subject titled to release the nothing landscaping obstacle. This is a real revolution for those who have experienced, even indirectly, the delays in the present situation. It will not be the resolution of every problem, but it is an innovative solution, in order to combine the requirements of protection with those of effectiveness of the administrative action and of valorization of the goods. We therefore deliver a good job to the House of Deputies, the result of a broad debate, which we hope will not be upset and, if there are conditions, can become law as soon as possible. It is a good revision of Law No. 394 with which we can reposition our country internationally: history, protection, biodiversity, simplification, innovation and development are the key words of this choice. I add only one: foresight. It means not managing the existing, but trying to anticipate the future. As in 1980 a local administrator of my territory, Professor Liliano Famigli, who left us too early while teaching us so much, when he decided, together with technicians prepared like him, to establish the provincial council of the environment, six years before the constitution of the Ministry of the Environment. It was a choice that allowed the development of important programs, often pioneering. Liliano wrote: A new conception of environmental policy is that which does not separate man from nature, and on this will depend to a large extent, not only on the future quality of life of our territories, but also on the possibility of ensuring productive growth and full employment. It is with the ambition of being as far-sighted as he was and so many other administrators of our country that I announce the convincingly favorable vote of the Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u42	I greet the president of the Nebrodi Park, Dr. Giuseppe Antoci, who is attending our works and here represents the entire Italian Federation of parks and nature reserves (Federparchi). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u44	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u45	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say at once that my dissenting speech, with which I voted against in advance, does not want to express a political dissent - far from me - but rather a dissent in substance and form. A dissent in substance and form because I have to say (but - alas - I do not find anything new) that by this Government, when amendments are also tabled improving the text, the party taken votes against. To such an extent that an amendment of mine, 25,100, with which I asked for the deletion of the second period of paragraph 1 of Article 25, was rejected, and then adopted an amendment tabled by Senator Vaccari which, although in a different way, takes up its salient aspect. This is the testimony of the "against" attitude that exists when something positive is proposed by the opposition. Fortunately, then there are always, as we can see, the agendas that give a little content, so we can imagine that something is done. But what is the real problem with this amendment to Law No 394 of 6 December 1991, which takes place after twenty-five years? That it still gives a cut that transcends from the local realities, even, as I have just heard, citing expressions as "development laboratory." But I have also heard of "wars of religion," as if these, if they could be assimilated to the problems of the Park, were worth nothing, while history teaches us that they have changed the course of our destiny. I refer in particular to Article 25 of the measure in question. Although the opposite is said, we do not want to take account of the will of the people. The full respect of the mayors has been mentioned, but what mayors? Senator Vaccari, I challenge you publicly to inform us about which mayors you have heard: you have not audited one! I am talking about the park of the Po Delta, where I have lived and continue to live, a regional park that for many years needed a different action from what we see today, made not only of good wishes, principles and things said and not done, but based on the promotion of the development of economic activities, respecting the environment. This is not the case, not even through this measure, which I consider to be inefficient, ineffective and disrespectful of the local authorities, who should have expressed their thoughts. Mr President, for these reasons, I am voting against.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u47	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u48	GALIMBERTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I largely agree with the speech made by Senator Floris, who announced our Group's vote in favour. However, because of the excessive interference by the national government bodies that I have seen both in the drafting and during the examination of the measure, I announce my abstention vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u51	CUOMO (PD). Mr President, pursuant to Senator Santangelo's express verbal delegation, I request that the vote be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u52	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the unified text of the draft law no. 119, 1004, 1034, 1931 and 2012, in the amended text, with the following title: Amendments to Law No 394 of 6 December 1991 and further provisions on protected areas. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u53	I inform you that a proposal to reverse the agenda has been submitted to the Presidency by the requested number of senators, which would lead to the discussion of document XXII, No 5, establishing a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the problems connected with the reconstruction of the territories affected by the seismic events of 6 April 2009................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ If there is no sign of opposition, let us proceed in this direction.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u54	The next item is the debate on document XXII, point 5. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether he intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u55	Mr President, first of all I would like to say that I will hand over the report so that it is annexed to today's report. I just want to frame the bill, which is seven years after the terrible earthquake that hit the city of L'Aquila and other 56 municipalities in Abruzzo. Parliament has tried to collect proposals from various political groups, uniting them in this draft law, in order to create a Commission of Inquiry into the emergency response and reconstruction process that is still in place. We leave behind, as colleagues know, hard years for the Abruzzo people and for the institutions representing them, who have had to deal with a number of problems, with difficulties with respect to governance as it has evolved over time and with the absence of certain rules in the immediate and constant resources. We had to wait a long time before we knew what were then referred to as guidelines and procedures for the reconstruction of homes damaged by the earthquake. These are slownesses and delays that have forced the reconstruction to struggle in the start-up and it is clear that, as with other calamitous events that followed, the presence of certain rules and a constant flow of funding would have produced different results. 11.10 a.m. (Following Mr Vaccari, rapporteur). These uncertainties, confusion and contradiction have certainly also affected the resistance to the presence and infiltration of criminal organizations in the reconstruction process, as evidenced by the various judicial investigations opened during these years and the various warnings raised also recently by the district attorney antimafia dell'Aquila, Fausto Cardella. The work we have tried to do in the Commission has been to collect and unify all the common points of the various acts, from the first signature of Senator Stefania Pezzopane to the first signature of Senator Maurizio Romani, to the one presented by Senator Blundo, choosing as more useful and more immediate the form of the Single Chamber Commission, to which we want to entrust investigative tasks, as well as sharing the majority of those proposed by the initial drafts of law, which we have integrated to clarify during the debate in the Commission. The Commission will have to deal with emergency management and reconstruction by institutional actors and how the resources allocated to deal with emergency and reconstruction have been managed. In particular, it will investigate the use of the resources deriving from the liquidation of insurance policies concluded to cover any seismic damage, the regularity of the procedures for awarding contracts and subcontracting and the carrying out of work on the provisional works carried out in historical centres, on the security measures taken for the areas affected by the earthquake, on the crimes committed against the assets in the abandoned buildings due to the earthquake, on the amount of the financial resources indicatively still necessary and on the foreseeable time limit for the completion of the reconstruction process, on the whole of the resources allocated, on the date of 31 December 2015, which refer to other earthquakes and earthquakes that fell on our country, starting from that in Friuli-Venezia Giulia, to those in the Valley of Belice, Emilia-Romagna, Umbria and the Marche, to compare the different strategies adopted by the State, the Regions and the Municipalities. Other fields of investigation will be the motivations that have led to intervene with the recourse to the orders of the President of the Council of Ministers for the management of the emergency, the correctness of the measures regarding the resumption and the compensation of the productive, commercial and professional activities. There are also other points, the last of which has been added to the Commission at the request of a number of colleagues from the Health Commission: the Commission of Inquiry will also have to monitor the development of the health conditions of the population affected by the earthquake, the conditions of access to the social and health care services provided, as well as the instruments put in place to mitigate the damage. It is a set of forecasts, tasks and functions that are entrusted to this Commission that will have to be formed by twenty senators, appointed by the President of the Senate in proportion to the number of members of each Parliamentary Group and in any case ensuring the presence of at least one representative for each existing Group. The Commission may acquire copies of documents and documents relating to all ongoing proceedings and investigations with the judicial authority or other investigative bodies, as well as copies of documents and documents relating to other parliamentary investigations. The meetings of the Commission shall be public unless the absolute majority of the members decide otherwise. The Commission will be able to make use of resources, staff, premises and instruments made available by the President of the Senate and the costs for its operation will be borne by the Senate's internal budget. The Commission has done a good job of defining the unified text. We shall have the opportunity to return to the examination of the few amendments which have been tabled in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u56	I declare the debate open. Senator Marinello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u57	Mr President, the document before us today has been comprehensively and, I believe, comprehensively explained by Mr Vaccari. So I will not be repetitive, but I will just add a few comments. The text that has been approved in the Commission is absolutely agile and slim and includes, in my opinion, several aspects of the issues related to the great disasters of our country and, in particular, the disaster that seriously affected L'Aquila and other 56 municipalities in 2009. The previous experience of the Committees of Inquiry, with regard to major disasters, has never been positive. I would remind you, for example, that in three successive legislative acts, committees of inquiry (among other things, they were bicameral at the time) have followed the Belice earthquake and there has never been a conclusion; indeed, worse, the conclusions of the last Commission in 2001 have not served at all to support any parliamentary or governmental initiative that could put an end to this ancient issue. Our hope today, however, is that the versatile instrument of the single-chamber Commission can produce good work, which, in my opinion, should not primarily look at the aspect of guilt or responsibility. Those are the competences of other institutions or bodies. I am convinced that today the main task is to photograph the state of the art and above all to find solutions, in the times and in the ways that you will want to identify, to give a complete response to those populations, also in order to give an important signal for the entire country, especially at a time like this when unfortunately the tragedy of the earthquake continues to make victims, to produce faults and to scourge much of the national territory. It is with this hope that, taking advantage of the intervention in general discussion, the Group of the People's Alliance and the Centro-Rextra Group will vote in favour of this measure. So, Mr President, I will not speak at the time of an explanation of vote, because I believe I have exhausted the arguments in this one speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u58	Senator, thank you for your contribution to the faster progress of your work on such a delicate subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u59	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we are now setting up the Committee of Inquiry coincides with the dramatic events of the new earthquake that has just developed between Marche, Umbria, Lazio and Abruzzo. It is worth remembering that the report on the proposal for a parliamentary inquiry was communicated to the Presidency in March 2016, so in previous circumstances it has taken on even greater significance because of what is happening these days and hours. It is important to clarify, not only because of the large amounts of resources of the public exchequer, but above all to give just refreshment to the damage suffered by our fellow citizens who in these calamitous circumstances have lost their lives, if they have seen it overturn or cancel it completely. The task of the Commission of Inquiry will be enormous. We have supported the Commission's request to set up an inquiry and we will do so in the votes that follow. The enormity of the task is evident by reading the text of the report, where the title would lead to thinking of a Commission dealing only with what happened in L'Aquila. According to the report, in fact, the Commission will also have to deal with the events that related to the reconstruction following the earthquakes in the Emilia-Romagna, Lombardy and Veneto Regions of 2012, (...) in the Umbria and Marche Regions of 1997, in Irpinia of 1980 and in Friuli Venezia of 1976 and in the Belice Valley of 1968, in order to understand what strategies have been, against the allocated resources, adopted in a very particular way from the State, the Regions and the Municipalities for the reconstruction of public and private buildings and for the realization of public works. Yes, because it seems absurd, but there are still situations like that of Belice, where the situation has not yet normalized. There are and are emerging again these days, after the earthquake that struck the Valnerina, interventions made after 1997, which in some cases have not produced the effects of resistance that would have been expected. We need to make it clear, in order to understand what it has been, but above all to build a path, a protocol, an operational mode that makes the resources spent in solving problems and in restoring the damage suffered effective. We know that mafia and malavitous infiltrations and waste can unfortunately not be totally cancelled. However, they must be forced, reduced, driven out and, through the Commission of Inquiry, all the ways in which these events can be infiltrated must be checked, up to the maximum limit that can be imagined. This is a challenging task and we will assess the work of the Commission on this. In the first place we can only be in favour of clarity and, indeed, we hope that it will be done in terms that are manageable, swift, effective and potable, because of the breadth and the temporal vastness of the arc of the events considered.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u61	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u62	Mr President, I asked to speak very briefly as Senator Commissioner. We are examining the proposal to set up a Commission of Inquiry: it is certainly not the only one, there are several, some bicamerals and other monocamerals. I am not going to go into the matter, which I will then vote with my group, and I absolutely do not intend to influence the decision to set up the Committee of Inquiry, because I believe that the structures and resources of the Senate are at the service of the Senate's political decisions and not vice versa. Therefore, if there are expenditure issues, they must be subordinate to institutional issues. This should always be done: not only when it comes to this Commission of Inquiry - I say this with a little controversy - but also when it comes to constitutional reforms. This is just to point out that the Commission will still require resources, albeit a few. I do not say so much for this Commission, but in case you think you should set up more. Remember who will then be a member of this Commission and, even more so, who will be presiding over it that the resources are limited. They will certainly be found because such a decision must be fulfilled and will be covered by the savings that continue to be made year by year, adding savings. From the point of view of the spaces, they will, of necessity, be limited, so it will not be easy to find the best accommodation, but I am convinced that the spirit of service and interest in the content of this Commission of inquiry will prevail. However, I wanted to say this to protect the structure of the Senate and our resources, which we always try to use in the best way, which I believe is to implement the decisions that the House will take this morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u63	The debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u64	Mr President, I am speaking only to accept Mr Malan's invitation to the logistical and financial needs of this Commission. I believe that those who will be called to perform the function, after the appointment of the Senate, with the College of Quaestors will be able to find all the useful solutions to the performance of these functions within the limits of the availability of resources and spaces of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u65	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the approval of the creation of the Single Chamber Committee of Inquiry into the problems of the reconstruction of the territories affected by the earthquakes of 6 April 2009 is an important step in restoring the real scope of what happened following the Eagle earthquake, in order to avoid delays, inefficiencies and delays in the future. Let me say that the establishment of this Commission must be an opportunity to analyze what happened but above all to understand, deepen and highlight - as Senator Marinello said well - what can be the most correct procedures to put in place in cases of natural disasters that begin to be increasingly frequent in our country: it is not conceivable that they can spend seven years, like those lived in Abruzzo, with the absence of certain rules for the management of the immediate and waiting for guidelines and orders that allow to properly and quickly allocate the resources made available. The main road, also in the light of the latest tellurical events that have hit Central Italy, must be to put in place first actions and measures that aim to safeguard our people and our territory and to intervene quickly in the emerging and post-emergency situations of the great natural disasters. The report by the 13th Commission - as Senator Vaccari has rightly said - goes in the right direction when it notes that the procedures for intervention for post-seismic reconstruction must take a new path of guarantee and speed, highlighting how the expectation of guidelines and the succession of ordinances have actually slowed down the reconstruction process which is still not fully completed today. For all these reasons, we reiterate that the establishment of a Commission can represent an opportunity to understand and enter the heart of the problem, revealing a clear methodology that helps us to deal with reconstruction. If we fail to do so, we will be able to set up other committees of inquiry that will only ascertain the new responsibilities, but their institution will only be the manifest proof - as has been said by many authoritative senators - of the inability to resolve the problems at the time when they occur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u67	I inform you that the Presidency has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on this document, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u68	I am against all the amendments, with the exception of Amendments 1.5 and 1,203 and (the advance) of course 2,200 and 5,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u69	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u70	I put to the vote Amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.3. Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Does the request apply only to this amendment or to the whole article? Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). For the whole article. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u73	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to stress the importance of this amendment and thank you for your favourable opinion on it, because it is a question of transparency for the funds allocated by the CIPE resolution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u76	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr. President, I didn't hear very well if the electronic vote...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u77	It's about the whole article, we said it. MARTELLI (M5S). You know you never let me finish? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We said it. You didn't hear. MARTELLI (M5S). It took three seconds to clear this up. You always have to interrupt. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It has been explicitly said. You've distracted yourself. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u80	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to vote in favour of this amendment concerning the leases entered into by the municipality, because it is, however, public money that is being invested without knowing whether there was an opportunity to intervene in any other way and to avoid this expenditure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u81	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,200, tabled by Senator Blundo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,201, tabled by Senators Pelino and Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,202 tabled by Senators Pelino and Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,203, tabled by Senators Pelino and Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,204, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,205, tabled by Senators Pelino and Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.19.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u84	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, in view of the availability that has been made (which we welcome and welcome with pleasure), I would also like to think in detail about Amendment No 1.19, because it is also a question of investigating the adequacy of the strategic planning adopted by the municipality. At present, we see that the old town of L'Aquila is not in a position to be used, so much so that with the last shocks it has been closed again. We see that there are reconstructions of buildings that have priority over others and there is no clarity about this priority for the possibility of recovery of the entire city and, above all, its economic fabric. Therefore an assessment of the adequacy of this strategic planning is perhaps necessary, especially because for the new historic centers affected by the earthquakes of the last few days it is necessary to assess the right interventions and the right priorities to be assigned for reconstruction. I would therefore ask you to review the opinion on this amendment and, above all, I would ask colleagues to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u85	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.19, tabled by Senator Blondo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.15, tabled by Senator Blondo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.16, tabled by Senator Blondo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.17.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u88	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I apologise, but I think it is appropriate at least to try to invite this House to consider these amendments differently. In this case we are talking about a storage site that has been considered as unique for waste disposal. I believe that it is necessary for the Commission of Inquiry to investigate the assignment to a single site, which has been identified since the first hours of what has happened and in very particular ways. The Army had also intervened to restore that site which it was pouring under inappropriate conditions. I really ask the House to vote in favour of the possibility of understanding also how the choices of storage sites take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u89	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.17, tabled by Senator Blondo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of Article 2, on which an amendment has been tabled, which is intended to be presented, on which the rapporteur and the representative of the Government have already expressed their opinion. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,200. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,200, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 2 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of Article 5, on which an amendment has been tabled, which is intended to be presented, on which the rapporteur and the representative of the Government have already expressed their opinion. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,200. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5,200, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 5 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u92	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the earthquake of 6 April 2009 hit Abruzzo hard with a magnitude of 6.3 on the Richter scale, with an epicenter just over a kilometer from the centre of L'Aquila. The budget was dramatic: 309 victims, thousands wounded, destruction of the historic center and entire districts of the city, capital of the Abruzzo Region, and 57 countries of the Province, the crater, with thousands of displaced. I remember well as a symbol and memory of that earthquake were those 55 young students who died, housed in the student's house, where a part of the building collapsed. Crumbling. L'Aquila is one of the many events of natural calamity that in the course of history, even recent, have hit our country. Unfortunately, however, even in this post earthquake, opacity and mismanagement of resources have manifested themselves. I would like to remind Members of the Senate House that 11 billion has already been spent and that another 7 billion will be added. Irregularity, illegality, slow reconstruction and problems especially in public housing and, in particular, in school buildings. For the citizens of L'Aquila and the crater countries, and especially for the relatives of the victims, who have also been formed in association, transparency is therefore necessary and it is necessary to create the conditions for guaranteeing justice. Seven and a half years after the earthquake, the reconstruction is still underway. Think that the other day with enthusiastic tones - let's say frankly unhappy - the inauguration of the first construction site in 13 hamlets was made at L'Aquila, while in the other 30 hamlets you are still on the high seas and if it's okay, in the second half of 2018 the first construction sites will start. Not to mention the problem of sub-services, where there are no certainties, there are no funds and there are no projects. In fact, citizens and institutions complain about delays, delays and inefficiencies. The latest news is just the other day in L'Aquila, where for a public warning, badly communicated by the municipal administration, more than 720 families who have requested to be reimbursed by the damage caused by that earthquake seven and a half years ago to their furniture, will probably never receive this money. The confusion and contradictory nature of the rules adopted has often led to actions by the administrative, criminal and accounting judiciary which, in particular, have been responsible for the local administrators involved in the reconstruction. Open judicial investigations show corruption and attempts to infiltrate criminal organisations in the reconstruction process which, of course, has attracted high economic, legal and illegal interests. The Single Chamber Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry will therefore have to deal with the problems related to the emergency period and also to reconstruction. Our Group has made a strong contribution to the improvement of the text. Among the additions proposed by us I recall: the extension of the investigations by the Commission of inquiry also to the procedures for managing the reconstruction by institutional entities (not, therefore, only at the stage of the emergency, which was the first hypothesis); the possibility of investigating the security measures taken in the areas affected by the earthquake, in order to verify the crimes committed against the abandoned, public and private property, and to the detriment of people; the possibility of investigating the measures taken in the context of reconstruction, for the purposes of the application of the legislation on the security anti-seismic of buildings and environmental protection; the verification of the state in which the buildings of the CASE project are now paid for the lack or absolute lack of maintenance; the extension of the investigations on the responsibilities in the tests carried out at the various stages of construction; the extension of the activities of the Commission of inquiry, including investigations on the management of resources allocated with measures subsequent to those of the emergency (so also the successive decrees-laws). A further proposal, accepted, is the possibility for the Commission to carry out investigations into the regularity of the procedures for allocating and carrying out work in respect of the provisional works carried out in historic centres, such as the build-up of damaged buildings. With this Commission of Inquiry Parliament, the Senate - being the Single Chamber Commission - has a great responsibility in identifying the problems related to reconstruction and in bringing to light the pathologies that emerged both in the emergency and, above all, during reconstruction. We hope that the investigations carried out by the Commission can contribute not only to the correction of the measures taken so far for the reconstruction of the territory of L'Aquila and the municipalities of the crater, but also to the perfection of a model of intervention that has already been wanted with the earthquake of Amatrice, Accumuli and Arquata del Tronto of 24 August last and that, like Curcio (the head of the Department of Civil Protection) said at the hearing the other evening, already needs a revisitation following the shocks of 26 October and those of 30 October, with magnitude 6,5. This obviously to cope in the future - it is hoped - with greater efficiency and effectiveness to the phases of emergency and reconstruction of areas affected by natural disasters that, unfortunately, periodically hit - and, alas, we fear - our country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u95	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we will vote in favour of the establishment of this Committee of Inquiry, also because I believe that, although more than seven years have passed since that night of 6 April 2009, it is absolutely necessary that the Senate should be better able to investigate. Not surprisingly, among other things, this proposal has collected suggestions from various political groups because I believe it is important - also, alas, for all the dramatic events that hit Central Italy from 24 August to the most recent ones - that the Commission can fully understand the delays, the slownesses, the governance system that took place during the reconstruction phase. In fact, I believe that this can help us not to make the same mistakes, which can make the institutions absolutely lonely in the control mechanisms. I therefore believe that the Commission has an absolutely fundamental task. For the use of resources, the regularity of the procedures followed for the award of contracts, the correctness of all the instruments put in place to adapt the buildings being rebuilt, and those rebuilt, to the best technological systems, for all these reasons I believe it is good to set up the Commission. Of course, like others who have been or are in training in recent months, it may come a little late. In fact, I think we could have decided much more quickly, which would have been absolutely fundamental also to help rebuild the city of L'Aquila and all the other affected centers that are located in the crater. For all these reasons, my Group's vote on the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry will be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u98	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have finally arrived today at the vote on the establishment of a single-cameral investigation commission on post-Eagle reconstruction and in the other municipalities affected by the tragic earthquake of 6 April 2009. The continuous previous referrals, last that occurred on the day when it was decided, with the reversal of the timetable of the works, to give priority to the request of authorization to arrest Senator Caridi (situation that caused me a great displeasure to the point to write, in an inadequate and equivocal way, a tweet of which I apologise again), had provoked in me great disappointment. Today, at last, in the light of the new dangers and the new seismic swarms that are hitting central Italy, I express my deepest satisfaction with the acceptance by all the Groups of the request, made by my Group, of the reversal of the calendar, allowing in fact the completion today in the Chamber of the process of setting up the Committee of Inquiry on the post-sysm reconstruction of the city of L'Aquila. This is an important step, strongly desired by the Parliamentary Group of the 5 Star Movement, which has always supported my proposal to set up this Commission. This is - let me tell you - about the achievement of an important personal, as well as political, goal that I have pursued with all of myself since the beginning of my parliamentary mandate. An objective thanks to which we will finally be able to clarify the political responsibilities and the motivations that have delayed the reconstruction process, currently characterized by considerable slowdowns in the capital of Abruzzo, especially for the historical center of the city, and the failure to rebuild the historical centers of the crater, as well as the untransparent modalities that have characterized the management of the resources allocated in recent years, with numerous situations and contracts for the safety and reconstruction that are feigned under the magnifying glass of the judiciary, leading to investigations and arrests also between the officials of the eagle administration and the members of the City Council. To confirm the urgency of setting up a Commission of Inquiry investigating the type and quality of the materials used, as well as the design, maintenance and testing phases of the rebuilt buildings, also contributes to the fact that many Aquila homes, which have just been returned to their owners seven and a half years after the earthquake, have suffered new damage from the seismic swarm of 24 August, although they have not been declared unactible or dangerous to the population. I have begun my battle of clarity and transparency on the use of the funds allocated for the reconstruction of the Eagle since the first anomalies emerged, the first inflated contracts, the first injustices, the first cases of mafia infiltration and corruption in the management of the funds: funds for a population already persecuted and prostrated by the dramatic events of the earthquake. In seventy-eight months, EUR 15 billion has been allocated, but much has yet to be done on the completion of reconstruction work. What has appeared in the eyes of the eagle in recent years, ladies and gentlemen, is a chilling picture, a perverse interweaving of interests that has seen and sees involved politicians, officials, entrepreneurs, all casually able to move within the perverse logic of do ut des. The only victims are honest citizens, those who are still waiting for the reconstruction of public residential buildings and some important streets of L'Aquila, such as Via Aldo Moro, which has recently suffered damage that has made it unusable. Many of those waiting for the rebirth of our beloved city have difficulty in seeing their rights recognized. The determination of national and local political responsibilities for the state of crisis in the city of L'Aquila is therefore a priority today, in the light of the numerous police operations and in the light of what needs to be done for the affected territories and what is happening within the other administrative realities. A picture, as I said before, gruesome, that has had serious repercussions on the social and productive fabric of the city of L'Aquila, causing the closure of numerous autochthonous commercial activities. In these seven years L'Aquila has been forced to swallow many pills of evil, assisting helpless to the crumbling of reconstruction operations and the loss of other important garrisons, such as the university and other realities, such as the superintendence. In San Gregorio, many families have even been evicted, after having made them live for seven years in damaged and partially accessible houses, without providing, as in the case of the residential public buildings in Via di Vincenzo, for the actual use of public resources allocated specifically for their reconstruction and having the judiciary open yet another investigation. These are twelve private-owned housing units and forty-nine public housing units in the municipality of L'Aquila and a installment of about 1.5 million has been paid, without the work ever beginning. The emergency and desperation of the 70,000 displaced people has therefore turned into a great deal for the mob companies, punctually failed to answer for nothing, while the citizens have put us back in safety and health. The contribution made by the 5 Star Movement in asking for the urgent discussion of the measure was not only decisive, but it has also allowed the adoption of the additional amendments that I have tabled for the verification of the funds allocated for public housing and the health conditions and the state of reconstruction of the school building, it is not yet clear, in order to allow the future Committee of Inquiry to carry out its task in the best possible conditions, as well as to identify the local and national political responsibilities for all the delays and continuous episodes of bad management that have characterized the reconstruction activities since 2009. Among the functions of the Commission of Inquiry, in addition to those of verification on the management of all the resources allocated and the adequacy of the plans for the resumption of the productive activities, there is also the management of the rubble and the storage sites, the safety, the energy certification, the saving of water, the crimes committed against the heritage and the infiltration of the crime and the ascertainment of the state in which the buildings of the CASE project are today, the causes of the delay of the allocation of the funds and the examination of the real effectiveness of all the legislation that has governed the phase of the reconstruction. This is also in order to be able to give adequate indications. A further area of action will be the acquisition of information, data and documents. For these reasons, once again thanking my Group and all the other political forces that have allowed us to achieve this important goal today, I naturally announce the vote in favour of the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u101	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I share the need to propose the establishment of a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the problems of reconstruction following seismic events that hit L'Aquila on 6 April 2009 and many, many, many Abruzzo Municipalities. In fact, it is necessary to guarantee the correctness and transparency of the procedures in order to honour the memory of so many, so many victims and eliminate the discomfort that so many, so many citizens of the Eagle and the municipalities of the crater are still living. As we know, the reconstruction phase is entrusted to local authorities and is still slow and complex. I think, therefore, that the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry can speed up this process which in recent years - alas - has also seen the intervention of the judiciary for serious crimes. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators Quagliariello and Vaccari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u104	Mr Pezzopane (PD). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Democratic Party, I am voting in favour of the proposal to set up a Committee of Inquiry to investigate the facts of the Eagle, the emergency and reconstruction. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Stefano Vaccari, who, with great care and competence, made up in his proposal all the parliamentary initiatives which, during this parliamentary term, had been deposited with the same objective. I'm an eagle. At 3.32 a.m. on 6 April 2009 I was at the Eagle and I was President of the Province. That morning none of us had the good earthquake manual and knew what he had to do to assist, help, support the emergency and then set up the reconstruction. In my view, the first objective of the Commission of Inquiry is to ensure that no administrator is any longer in the position of myself, along with so many other administrators. With the establishment of this Commission of Inquiry, the State is called upon to investigate, through Parliament, what has happened, how the emergency was managed and how the first measures were taken. I remember the crunching of ordinances, contradictory laws and exclusion from the decision-making power of municipalities and local authorities until 2012. Not to mention, then, the contradictory measures, whose contradiction today emerges even more dramatic in the face of the new seismic events that have rightly led the Government to issue a decree-law that treasures the errors committed at L'Aquila and solves them positively. Someone mentioned the delay in rebuilding historic centres during the debate. Nobody, however, recalled that then the government and Parliament would not consent to the financed reconstruction of the second houses. Even today, in the crater of the eagle earthquake of 2009, only following measures that this Government and this majority have adopted, it is possible to rebuild the common parts. Do you think that this did not result in a gigantic delay in the planning of the municipalities, which they found to have aggregates in which the first house was sometimes succumbed, numerically and as cubes, compared to the second house? We had to solve the problem here, thanks to the support of the Democratic Party and the far-sightedness of the Government and this majority, who wanted to repair some mistakes, in which I do not want to see either guilt or malice: it was perhaps unpreparedness. But today this Parliament, with the establishment of the Commission of Inquiry, wants - at least this is the aim of the Democratic Party - not to criminalize behaviour, but rather to clarify what the mistakes have been throughout the chain and what can be - it is urgent to tell the country - the most suitable instruments for the State (through its organs: Civil Protection and the Government), for the local authorities and for the regions that in the new earthquake immediately assume powers of vice commissioners through the presidents. Even the mayors receive powers immediately and, therefore, already with the new decree-laws some of the problems we have had are resolved positively. I believe that the points of the bill are all very clear and fair. I believe that a good job will be done, which must be serious and short, free from all kinds of exploitations and only aimed at saying to the country, which has supported so many sacrifices to finally lead us to a serious start of reconstruction, because, as and when this reconstruction will be completed, to give then to the other territories, even with an organic law, even with Casa Italia, the appropriate tools so that what happened from us no longer happens to anyone else. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Repetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u107	MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u108	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of document XXII, No 5, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, FI-PdL XVII and Mixed Groups]] Many groups have been in need of ratifications to be postponed to another sitting. The Presidency would be in favour of agreeing to this request. Not making any comments, so it remains established.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u111	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I have come to know - and I have brought it to the attention of the Assembly - of a missive sent by e-mail from the peripheral offices of the MIUR, in the Abruzzo Region and in particular in the territorial context of the Provinces of Pescara and Chieti to school leaders to invite them to give maximum diffusion among students and teachers to an event in the city of Pescara: today at 18, at the theater Circus of Pescara, Luca Sofri (husband of the neon-named RAI 3) will interview Matteo, President of the Council, within the XIV edition of the Festival of Literatures of Pescara. Please note that the invitation clearly says to attend Renzi's interview and not the rest of the cultural events that will take place today and in the following days. What will the students get in return? An acknowledgment, formalized in certificate, granted to those who follow the interview-propaganda. The highest school institution of the Region, therefore, enters with strained leg in the referendum campaign, while its task should be to coordinate the formation in a neutral and without political and party orientation. The provinces of Chieti and Pescara are upholstered with representations, in all probability in violation of the code of the road and the rules on the electoral campaign. Renzi's footbridge, along with the words "Simply a yes," is nothing more than a technical test of speed. The invitation to our people is to respond peacefully, democratically and with extraordinary participation, on 4 December: these anti-democratic impositions can only be answered with a gigantic "no." [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-720.ana.u112	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.11 a.m.
