ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u4	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.37 a.m. and resumed at 9.57 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u6	The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u9	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Madam President, I again request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u11	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u12	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:58 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u13	The next item is the debate on draft law No 361. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether she intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill consists of five articles and has been examined by the 7th Commission from 28 January 2014 to 30 September 2015. In summary, the aim is to standardise the discipline of the limits to the renewal of the mandates of the summit bodies of the Italian National Olympic Committee (CONI), the Paralympic Committee (CIP), national sports federations and associated sports disciplines and sports promotion bodies. Announcement, when submitting the contents of the draft law, of certain amendments aimed at replacing the current wording of Articles 1 and 2. In particular, the amendment proposed to Article 1 replaces paragraph 2 of Article 3 of Legislative Decree No 242 of 1999. The provision allows the bodies of the ICON to remain in office for four years and the components that assume the functions during the four-year period remain in office until the expiry of the organs. The president and some members of the national committee, i.e. 10 representatives of national sports federations and associated sports disciplines, the national representative of sports promotion agencies and the two representatives of the territorial structures of the CONI cannot carry out more than three mandates. It is also proposed to extend this discipline to the President and members of the governing bodies of the territorial structures of the ICON. According to article 4, paragraph 1, the CONI adapts its statute to the provisions just recalled within four months from the entry into force of this law. In vain, this deadline, the competent government authority in the matter of sport, with its own decree to be adopted within the next fifteen days, declares decayed the members of the organs of the CONI without the requirements of law for the permanence in office. The amendment proposed to Article 2 amending paragraph 2 of Article 16 of Legislative Decree No 242 of 1999 concerning the renewal of the terms of office of the president and the members of the governing bodies of national sports federations and associated sports disciplines introduces a broadly similar set of rules. The provision assigns to the statutes the task of providing for the procedures for the election of the President and of the members of the governing bodies, who remain in office for four years and may not carry out more than three mandates. The current rule, which is intended to repeal (the explicit repeal is provided for in article 5, paragraph 2, of this draft law), provides for the possibility of reconfirmation for the office of president, sanctioning the non-immediate re-eligibility to the said office for those who have held two consecutive mandates, unless a majority is reached not less than 55 percent of the validly expressed votes. In this case there are no limits to the possibility of reconfirmation. The discipline proposed with the modification of the above rule establishes instead that, in order to guarantee a wider participation in the federal assemblies, within four months from the date of entry into force of this law, the CONI establishes, with its own measure, the criteria of exercise of the right to vote by proxy in assembly in order to limit the concentration of the delegations, through a revision of the maximum of those that can be issued and that does not in any case exceed the number of five. It is worth recalling the resolution of the National Council of CONI No. 1523 of 28 October 2014 which currently provides, within the framework of the assembly principles, a maximum number of delegations between clubs and sports associations equal to 40. The same resolution, which contains the fundamental principles of the statutes of national sports federations and associated sports disciplines, provides, as regards the ordinary elective assembly, that by 15 March of the year following the celebration of the Summer Olympic Games elective ordinary assemblies by sports federations should be held. Those who, on the other hand, participate in the winter games ensure that the assembly is convened and held within three months of the closing of the games. Opened this brief explanatory brackets and returning to the discipline proposed in the draft law it is established that, in the face of a possible federal failure to comply with the provisions of the CONI to be adopted within four months from the date of approval of the ad hoc measure of the CONI, the latter body appoints a commissioner ad acta that provides within sixty days to the appointment. The possibility for federal statutes to provide for a number of mandates lower than the limit set by the new paragraph 2 of Article 16 of Legislative Decree No 242 of 1999. Finally, it is envisaged that the discipline described above will also apply to sports promotion bodies and to the President and members of the governing bodies of the territorial structures of national sports federations and associated sports disciplines. Article 2-a of the draft law, amending Article 3 of Law No 189 of 2003 adding Article 3-a, extends the legislation contained in Articles 1 and 2 of this draft law to the Italian Paralympic Committee and the national paralympic sports federations and associated sports disciplines. Finally, Article 4 of the draft law, paragraph 4, on transitional provisions, provides that all those who are in office on the date of entry into force of this law, if elected, may carry out two further mandates. Article 5, paragraph 1, repeals Article 2, paragraph 6, of Legislative Decree No. 15 of 8 January 2004. In conclusion, it is against the possibility of remaining in office for time immemorial that justifies the need for the legislative reform proposed in this draft law, which extends a uniform discipline in the matter of limits to the number of possible mandates to the president and to the members of the territorial organs of the CONI, the president and to the members of the governing bodies, national and territorial, national sports federations and associated sports disciplines, as well as to the sports promotion agencies; in essence, to all the sport governance, whose rules so far have allowed - as is the case with many federal presidents - to stay in office beyond long. The minimum percentage of 55%, in fact, provided for by the law from the third mandate onwards, did not, in fact, represent an obstacle to multiple re-elections, leading to the risk that federal resources would be invested in the re-election of summit bodies rather than in the achievement of technical objectives and in the promotion of sport. The task of the federations, on the other hand, is to promote and develop the psycho-physical preparation of athletes in the individual sports disciplines with a competitive and amateur character, in harmony with the addresses of the IOC and the CONI, taking care of the technical, didactic and methodological preparation of sports technicians and creating and organizing specific sports activities, both for starting sport and for high level sports. It is appropriate to conclude with a few brief comments. The extension of the limit of three mandates for presidents and members of the National Council of the IOC is in line with the current term of office of the President of the IOC, the International Olympic Committee. The Olympic card provides, in fact, for the president to remain in office for eight years, renewable only once for four. In this way, the national legal system adapts to the international sporting system, allowing the summit bodies of the ICONs and federations to build international relations and to influence these policies. I look forward, then, certainly important is to guarantee a turnover so far blocked within the national sports federations, where there are presidents in office from the nineties or from the beginning of the new millennium, which - in some cases striking come to the fore of the national chronicles - have benefited from real electoral stratagems useful for their re-election and linked to the creation and management of associations and sports societies affiliated to the federations, in reality fake, used as a pool of votes at the federal elected assemblies, through the vote by proxy. Unfortunately, there have been a number of cases. What has involved the leadership of the pentathlon federation in recent times is one of the best known. Finally, I would like to recall the need for transitional rules within the proposed time limits, which are absolutely necessary in order to prevent the new provisions from being in breach of the general principle laid down in the first paragraph of Article 11 of the provisions in advance of the Civil Code which, in the matter of the effectiveness of the law over time, provides that it cannot have retroactive effect. For this reason, it is established that the limits provided for in the new legislation do not apply to those who are in office on the date of entry into force of the law which, if elected, can carry out two further mandates. This means that everyone will start from scratch, being able to carry out three mandates, but who is already in office cannot carry out more than two others, assuming that, of the three permitted by the new legislation, at least one is already in progress. Basically, as soon as the law enters into force - and it is essential that it is in a very short time - we all start again, old and new, from scratch, but this time with certain limits, defined and not derogatable. Without prejudice to the transitional rules, therefore, it is established that, within a maximum of eight years, there will have been a total replacement of the current political governance of the sports world and, through the three mandates, an effective presence in international sports policy is guaranteed for Italian sport. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u15	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u16	Madam President, this draft law is appropriate to restore the limits to the renewal of the mandates of the Italian National Olympic Committee bodies and other national sports federations, already provided for by the original legislation of Legislative Decree No 242 of 1999, which provided that no more than two mandates could be exercised. In 2004 - as is well known - there was a transitional regulation which, to date, allowed the continuous renewal of the mandates well beyond the eight years, even outside the cases specifically provided for by the legislation. This situation has made legislative intervention necessary in order to re-establish a more equitable and corresponding to the changed national and international legislative and economic and social framework. It should also be noted that the text approved by the 7th Commission has been significantly amended in relation to the original draft law, following an interesting consultation process with the relevant bodies, which took place over a period of about one year. The most significant aspects concern the application of the limitations of the office to three mandates also to the governing bodies of the territorial structures of the CONI and national sports federations and associated sports disciplines. In this respect, the Commission's work has highlighted some critical issues, particularly with regard to very small federations, for which it is sometimes difficult to find successors in the governing bodies. However, despite the deepenings carried out with the territorial structures of the various companies concerned, it was not considered appropriate to introduce diversifications, also because in some cases the presumed impossibility to find candidates can be used as a tool to postpone legislative innovations. Sport, therefore, as a mass practice, social custom and utility aimed at the implementation of the health rate in the population, is destined to have more and more relevance in the world and, in particular, in our country. A complex phenomenon of great impact on the economy, on society, on voluntary systems, on the third sector, on entrepreneurship and on public administration programs, sports practice requires more and more capacity for governance, prudent and managerial management and permanent mediation between the needs of participatory democracy and finalization to optimize the physical and moral results of athletes. The CONI, once again, must take charge of such circumstances. The complexity of geographical contexts, economic scenarios and objectives will require more and more active and operational presence on decision-making tables, fields, slopes and race facilities. Italian sport still has to overcome the gap between North and South of the country, between Central-North and Central-South, with the northern part of Italy in less suffering than the sometimes archaic situations, in which in the Mezzogiorno, less favoured and supported by social and economic systems, sports practice takes place with difficulty. They would be appropriate stages of intermediate cultural approach, preparatory to new challenges, and new social needs and trends: men and women more and more protagonists not only in agony, but also in amateur and basic practice. It is therefore necessary for the Italian National Olympic Committee to pay more attention to the considerable social demand. We cannot deny that democracy must also be built and cultivated in gyms and streets. Sport is not a world apart and there are no exemptions for it. Therefore, the management, at all levels applied, as well as passionate must be accompanied by skills, listening inclinations and willingness to participate. In the terms of reference that Parliament is about to give to the Presidents of the federation, these requirements must be respected. In the long season of the candidacy to host in Rome the Olympic Games of 2024 it would be desirable that the sports federations and the CONI show to the country awareness of their role and tendency to welcome the new wind that blows in the suburbs and on the sports fields. Training: basic continuing training and training. It is necessary that, through the use of graduates in motor disciplines and management masters, real skills enter sports management. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Romani Maurizio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u17	Senator Davico is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the mandate of the ICON bodies is a non-problem: two or three (or two plus one), retroactive or not. A serious debate on Italian sport requires more. I'll try to explain. I think it is important that an Assembly such as our own should, or at least try to do so, on this issue. The CONI was born in Italy in 1908, as an association of representatives of various sports, in order to prepare and assist the Italian participation in the Olympics. In 1927 it was decided to merge all sports federations and finally, with Law No. 426 of 6 February 1942, the CONI was recognized by the State as having legal personality, responsible for the care, organization and development of sport. The final structure of the institution was completed by decree of the President of the Republic No 530 of 1974. It was the subject of a mini-reform in 1992, then a reorganization in 1999 and a reorganization in 2002. It is a non-economic public body, placed under the supervision of the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities, with the delegation of state contributions to national and associated sports federations, which cannot directly access funding because they are entities governed by private law. I believe that the state plays a very indirect role in the lives of these bodies at the moment, and that is why I find it inappropriate, or rather detrimental, to the autonomy of the bodies themselves, that the state should decide the number of mandates of the governing bodies. Moreover, this does not happen in any other European country comparable with Italy. In fact, abroad it is often the State that directly grants contributions to the federations. The question is not secondary. Why in Italy, a country that has always distinguished itself in every competition, at every level and in all disciplines, is not the organization of the sport project entrusted to an ad hoc Ministry, which deals with sports practice, its development and the widespread diffusion of sport culture? There are those who do not grasp the inequality of valorization that currently exists between every local authority, which equips itself with councilmen for sport and the like, and a sovereign state that does not dedicate a Dicastery to one of the most prosperous assets, more followed, more aggregations (and I could find other dozens of adjectives) of our society. We had come back to talk about a Ministry for Sport a few years ago, maybe natural recipient of the famous treasure deriving from the collections of sports betting, but for some reason the project did not go into port. In that hypothesis, which I believe can be resumed and evaluated, the CONI should have only dealt with the Olympic activity, that is, the participation and the image of our country in the greatest planetary sporting event, not even the direction and vision that a country wants to give to citizens in such an important matter and of which we remember only - and often, fortunately - when our champions stand out all over the world. We forget, on these occasions, that there is a territorial network made up of young people who have difficulty having access to sports practices, if not first of all to the first start to sports practice. There is a neglected and abandoned youth sport and there is basic sport, which is fully supported by families, regardless of their census; then there are social sport, the territorial redistribution of economic structures and resources, prevention, plantation, school. Is it not up to the State to set up such an organization or, at least, to indicate its policy and development guidelines? You see, ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly concerned about this issue. So for me, the question of the limits of the mandates of the ICON bodies is not at the heart of the matter. The real difficulties depend on its particular nature and location and on the regulatory and management anomaly in the public administration; anomalies that should be, yes, severely corrected. An example for all: the ICON has been working with CONI Servizi SpA since 2002 through an annual contract identifying the objectives and results to be achieved. Among the tasks of CONI Servizi SpA, there is also the task of restoring the budgets of the National Olympic Committee. Rather, as public money is concerned, would it not be more interesting to know the results of the checks carried out by the Department of the General Accounting of the State - Inspection of inspection services - against the CONI and its federations regarding the financial management of the latter? Will it not be quite interesting to find out who works well and who instead creates debt to their federation? Eventually, of the latter should be sanctioned by law the automatic decadence, other than renewing the mandate! I note that the extensors of this new rule that we are preparing to vote have referred, excusatio non petita, to a formula that already considers untouchable the status quo. I read in fact: "Stop remaining respect for the managerial autonomy of the CONI". No, ladies and gentlemen, it is, as I repeat, public money, not resource management autonomy, and also of public interest. I confirm that the law raises a question of crystallizations in the management structure. But at a political and economic juncture such as the current one, can we overlook the actual functionality of an entity born in 1908 to prepare the Olympics and which is considered by many parties to be overtaken, if not even discussed and anarchistally conducted for more than a century? Can we escape the exercise of our responsibilities as legislators? Can we still endorse a situation far from being transparent and virtuous, limiting the debate to the number of mandates? How many of the large funds that the CONI, as a public body, receives from the State and which then distributes to the federations are really used for sports activity? And how many are spent on bureaucracy and sport policy? Maybe it will be the case to resume in hand that study of Professor Roberto Perotti, moreover commissioned some time ago by Premier Renzi, on the managers of the public bodies, which defined CONI Servizi, ironically, "one of the greatest masterpieces of the Italian public finance," created to put off the budget (i.e. hide) some of the costs of the CONI" and which in turn generated only additional debts. "A simple but not very subtle way" asserts Perotti "to create salaries." In short, according to the illustrious technician, author of a report never denied (later resigned because perhaps it had not achieved effects), it is a real pit without fund for salaries, assignments, advice and armchairs. What about the screening required by Renzi on the big state companies, including CONI Servizi, which is 100% owned by the Ministry of Economy and considered the operational arm of the CONI, with a president and a CEO who decide the fate and finances of our sport together with an incredible number of consultants, among lawyers, directors of works, doctors for reports, teachers for courses? Wouldn't such bodies have been called carriages, at the time when the caste seemed to live only in this House? For God's sake, save the Olympics. Although I am told that no one has yet seen a rag of budget on the previous Olympic Committee, the one for Rome 2020. And which of us, then, did not rejoice for the memorable performance a few days ago of our national football team? It will be clear to you that sportiness does not enter into my remarks. And I refuse to think that we can continue to witness an intensive use of money destined also for minor sports activities to run an expensive and elephantic machine that should produce money, instead, in order perhaps to dedicate them to the development of the practice and culture of sport and well-being, even before the purely competitive sport activity. In 2012, the year analysed by the Court of Auditors, during which significant irregularities and waste emerged, the ICON had resources of 428 million euros (of which 408.9 million came from the Ministry of Economy and Finance, then from the Government) and paid to federations, associated disciplines, sports promotion agencies and armed forces about 246 million. The rest, i.e. the fine figure of EUR 182 million, serves the functioning of the ICON itself. A little less than a quarter of these funds, i.e. over 40 million, are spent on staff, while for example only 5 million (5 out of 428 million) are allocated to the motor literacy project in primary schools, launched together with the MIUR. An investment that certainly cannot be considered sufficient to spread a true sport culture in the family, at school, in society. A society in which a child can develop his or her motor skills - all of them - and then specialize, if necessary, in a discipline. But it almost seems that to the CONI and the federations and their leaders, some of whom remain there decades and decades, this does not interest. So today in the civilized Italy, in the top places for progress and culture, only half of children practice sports (twice a week) and 23 percent of young people between the six and eleven years old have problems of obesity. In fact, more than EUR 130 million remain, precisely and to close the debate, and I would like to see it documented. The world of sport is certainly an essential asset. At the center of this world should be all individuals, of every age, gender, social extraction, motor and intellectual capacity; sport for all, by virtue of the health aspects of motor activity, understood as a factor of prevention, improvement of the quality of life and reduction of public spending. All relevant stakeholders must be fully involved in a virtuous social subsidiarity. We could be an example country for others in Europe, both for the quality of our sportsmen and for the characteristics of our country's geographical structure, as well as for climate, history, landscapes and culture, does not limit us in anything. These are unique conditions in the world. Colleagues, instead, we stand firm to the CONI, to the federations, to the social offices, to the bizarre and brainic electoral modalities (55 percent to the third mandate, other percentages for other mandates), to the spaces to be created for excellent trumpets and, finally, to the number of mandates. By the way, will these mandates be carried out free of charge and without conflict of interest, as they solemnly declare all federal statutes? Or will they be documented in any other way, perhaps disguised as assignments and consulting in CONI Servizi? There will be a reason, and it is a reason that will be difficult to explain to those of our young fellow citizens who, by training with a craft basket or throwing a ball over a net, could have become better citizens and, perhaps, the champions that we might no longer have tomorrow. [[Applause from Senators Formigoni and Romans Maurizio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u20	Madam President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, a measure that we have been talking about for a long time has finally arrived in this House. I would almost like to say from the beginning of the parliamentary term. At last it comes, having overcome all the critical issues it presented, however (I address the Assembly and my fellow senators) if we take three years to lay off such a measure, when the government has to do important things I will be really worried about the country. It took us three years and fortunately we improved it, because it was a victim of superficiality and amateurism. It was bad for Italian sport, other than helping him. Then we will talk a little about what sport is, but fortunately it has been improved, with the help of the Commission and all those who do not politicize sport, because sport is absolutely autonomous, it is not right, left or centre and the blue shirt is everyone's shirt. Fortunately, that is the case, but I wonder how it is possible, even on such matters, to make mistakes that call dramatic is little. Let me give you an example: when you limit the mandate of the presidents of the federation to two years, do you not think that those presidents represent, exactly as the athletes do with the blue jersey, the executives, the CONI, the federations, the boys and everything underneath them - of which I will speak later - and the families, also at international level? One became president of the federation, began to become known internationally and, as soon as he began to promote the demands of Italian sport, he was told: no, you stay at home, because we have to do the demolition. We're talking about volunteers, people who wear yours. That was the setting. When we vote on the measures, each group decides how to vote and, of course, for us, Senator Carraro will make the explanation of vote, but it is also right to know the history of the measures. This is a measure that started with madornal errors and only common sense and willingness to support a subject such as sport, which should not be given political color, finally allowed it to arrive in this Chamber improved. Suffice it to point out that, not later than a few months ago, it was not scheduled by the Capigroup because it was clear that it was still insufficient. I must say then, because I have to move politically, that here they have proved, once again, superficiality and inability. Fortunately, on a subject of this kind, union has been found and good will has been shown on the part of the senators of all groups. It is obvious that the CONI and the sport must be dealt with in total autonomy. Let's remember for a moment what sport is and what CONI is, about the scraping I mentioned earlier. The CONI lives on voluntary contributions from parents and sports managers. It is first in terms of volunteering in Italy: it is the largest form of volunteering in the country. So let's start thinking about doing something to really help sports. As one previous colleague reminded me, sport used to be financed through Totocalcio. As we all remember, 33 percent of the Totocalcio went to the prize pool, 33 percent went to the state and 33 percent went to the CONI and through this to the sports federations. Totocalcio, as we know, no longer exists and so there are no more forms of financing of sport. I'm thinking about funding because when you go to impose influential limits on sports executives, it affects people who put them on as we'll see later. Today the State, through the Ministry of Economics and Finance, gives the CONI more than 400 million per year, which also go to the CONI Servizi. It's no use on the Coni Servizi, because we all know what I'm talking about. Well, I think we need to think about how resources are invested, assuming that the autonomy of the CONI, from my point of view, is sacred. However, when using public resources, it must be respected, so we should think about it. I say this because, when I speak of autonomy, this means that the sports executives of the small sports society (both Bolzano, Catania, Ancona, Padua, Rieti or Bologna, that is, throughout Italy) put their money, take time to their families and resources to their portfolios, because they have passion and do, as I said, very pure volunteering. It is from those executives who then leave the federation presidents and that is why we have struggled to settle this measure, which had to be absolutely fixed, otherwise it would have decreed the end of volunteering as well. The results of the Olympic Games, of which the CONI rightly boasts, are the tip of the iceberg. They derive from the work done by these volunteers, by technicians, by educators, because often the teachers, technicians and coaches are educators, together with the families of the children, in these societies that are closing. Many sports clubs, along the geographical perimeter of our nation, close because they lack resources. At a time of economic crisis, even those who take away something from themselves, their fun and their family and decide to invest in a sports society suffer the situation. We wanted to give an approach to this profoundly wrong measure, not only in the ratio, but also from the bureaucratic point of view. Sport is not colored and cannot be politicized, because it would be a huge mistake, but it cannot be made bureaucratic, because sport is pure passion in the pure state. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] That is why we have managed to improve this measure: because we know what we are talking about. And you don't need to have played sports at a competitive level or made the leaders of sports clubs, just look at the world of sport with an eye free from ideology, to understand that this is 360 degree volunteering. It was therefore about to be approved a measure born wrong and that was, thank heavens, improved, because it struck people who volunteer, dedicating themselves to sports clubs. I imagine that colleagues know that the presidents of the Federations are elected by the presidents of sports clubs, from the smallest to the largest, perhaps with different electoral mechanisms. Well, to the people who volunteered and committed themselves, we said that we could not be president for more than eight years. And to say it was Parliament, where seven, eight or even twenty-two legislators sit! Luckily, we have settled this measure, working together. I would like to add that I would now like to put my hands on the sports sector in a different way, not just by devoting myself to the apical figures, that is to say to the presidents of the federations. I repeat that any intervention must be done respecting the total autonomy of the CONI, because I am in favour of the CONI being absolutely autonomous. Among other things, it is often represented by people who also sit in this House and who have done so much for Italian sport and therefore for families and children, because it is not that we talk about families and young people when it suits us and when instead we try to restructure the Italian National Olympic Committee and the federations no longer talk about it. Otherwise we'd be schizophrenic. Instead, I hope that in this House we realize that this is a puzzle that must be together, in all its facets. I hope that we will deal with sport, as we are trying to do in the 7th Commission, in a different way. Because sport must be applied the purest, most beautiful and simple principle of subsidiarity that exists, without any kind of interest and without listening to those who are friends and not those who are not friends, otherwise Parliament, and of course the Government, would make the biggest mistake that can be made, unless we think that government and Parliament want to put their hands on volunteering as well. It is clear that volunteering must be helped, we all agree. Well, the sports world is also volunteering to the umpteenth power. Let's not stop and look at the tip of the iceberg, the medals and the results. Under that there is a great mountain, there is the submerged, there is what families live every day. Those sporting realities, those leaders, those sports clubs must be helped, we cannot stop at the federations and we could certainly not start from the federations in a wrong way because we are invaded by ideology. There has been talk of the demolition of volunteers: but do you think it is easy to find a manager of sports clubs in any city in Italy and in any small town in Italy? We also take away from him the opportunity to engage in his own federation, in his own territorial area of the Olympic Committee, we tell him that they must commit for a while and then they will be replaced. But do you think that the replacement is automatic, with the difficulties that are now in the country, the economic difficulties that families have? I'm not talking about that, of course, but when we talked about it, did we figure out where we live? At least when we talk about sports and volunteering, we try not to close our eyes and tell ourselves how things really are. Let's not be political about this. We risked hitting those who use their private resources. Thank God this will not happen, because we have been able to correct a wrong principle. Now let us deal with sport without ideology and let us try to help and not just talk about the final tip of the iceberg, but also about everything underneath it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u21	Senator Puglisi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Senator Marin spoke of this as a measure dealing only with the tip of the iceberg and said that there is a large mountain below. In fact, in order to deal with the great mountain below the sea, we must start, of course, from the summit. Sport is a topic of great social and economic importance and this is demonstrated by the data: 33 million practitioners of which 3.8 million in sports associations and societies and over 7.7 million in sports promotion agencies, which really include purely voluntary work. Only the CONI and the sports federations count 1,200 employees, an induced one that involves 35,000 enterprises and 100,000 employees with an added value of 4,5 billion euros and 14 billion turnover, that is approximately 5% of the Italian GDP. A movement of such vastness needs to have a governance of great effectiveness, efficiency and above all great transparency. It is in this direction that the legislative text under consideration operates, which not only aims to guarantee efficiency and credibility to the sporting institutions of our country with the limit of mandates and delegations, but is a useful signal of response to the demands of renewal of the ruling class that increasingly arise from civil society. The aim of this text is to remove national sports federations at risk of crystallization in the management structure. For this reason it is essential to review the system of renewal of the leadership and to guarantee the effectiveness of the replacement of the apical governing organs. This serves to a sound and correct management of any public body, I would like to remind you, that it is financed through, in fact, public money. By amending Decree-Law No 242 of 1999 governing the functioning of the CONI and the federations, providing for them a clearer and stricter limit to the overall duration of the mandates of the federal presidents and councils, the interpretations and practices of the elusive limits of law, which also existed, are interrupted. The extension of the limit of the three mandates for the President and the members of the national committee of the CONI and the sports federations, is exactly in line with the current term of office of the President of the IOC, the International Olympic Committee. So, Senator Marin, in reality we, with this text, align the Italian sports world with the international one and we have the possibility to influence the CIO's policies. The Olympic card provides, in fact, for the President to remain in office for eight years renewable one by four. In this way the national system adapts to the international one. Another important thing is to guarantee a turnover that has so far been blocked within national sports federations, where - let us not hide it - there have been presidents in office since the 1990s or since the beginning of 2000, who, in some cases striking, have also come to the fore in the national news, benefiting from their re-election of real electoral stratagems - I remember that today the regulation allows up to 40 delegations - linked to the creation and management of associations and sports companies affiliated to federations, in reality fake, used as a pool of votes at the elective federal assemblies through the vote by proxy. Unfortunately, there have been cases, and they have come to the fore in the news, among the best known I mention that of the Federation of Pentathlon. As Senator Marin said, I believe that the Commission's work has been balanced and I would like to thank Secretary Sesa Amici for the great support he has given us. We have adopted a very balanced measure which avoids, first of all, that the provisions can then be cancelled because they are retroactive. In order to avoid recourse to retroactivity of the rules, it is expected that the limits provided for in the new legislation will not apply to those who are in office on the date of entry into force of the law that, if elected, can carry out two more mandates. This means, as the Senator Idem recalled in the report, that we finally put everyone on the same starting tapes, providing for great transparency and, above all, a generational replacement to a vast sports movement that needs renewal. With regard to the limits of the five delegations, some federations will also have to revise the statutes. Senator Davico then recalled the importance of basic sport, which must start from schools. I would like to remind you that this Government has taken on and strengthened the educational provision of schools, hiring thousands of physical education teachers to start sports practice since childhood school and primary school. It is a measure and attention to the world of sport and to the world of sport of base really important, with a great investment also economic. There is also an important work being carried out in the 7th Commission, and of which Senator Idem, Senator Marin and all those who are working have skills in this field and, above all, a remarkable experience of great athletes. We are also examining an assigned business that explores all the points raised during this parliamentary debate, from sports work, to the definition of what amateur sport and professional sport are. We really intend to innovate with new measures this great engine of growth of our country. Dear Senator Marin, it is true that it took us three years to bring this measure to the House. I therefore call on you to vote 'yes' for constitutional reform because the measures of parliamentary initiative will certainly be more likely to see the goal in certain times. Please remember that it is with that reform that we can make the most of parliamentary democracy and not the opposite. [[Applause from Senator Del Barba]] This country, therefore, needs a higher rate of innovation in order to recover and grow, and with this measure, ladies and gentlemen, we also give new impetus to the world of sport. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u23	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u24	Madam President, thank you for the debate: it is always very good to talk about sport and debate its expressions. I want to stress that, not to mention just the summits, which cannot be separated from the base because they influence each other, we are discussing in the 7th Commission, in the context of the sport affair, all the facets of sport, in order to prepare the work that needs to be done. I would also like to thank the Commission, Mr Puglisi, Mr Marcucci and Mr Amici for the work they have done with all the others. Then we play the game of the parties, but I think the collaboration was very valuable [[Applause from the PD Group).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u25	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u26	Madam President, I will take only a few minutes to give the House an account of the reasoning that has accompanied us in the course of a work that is not simple, complex enough and very long. I too, like the rapporteur, Mrs Idem, think that we have had a careful attitude on a measure which was very specific. In particular, I would like to remind Senator Davico that the text is very limited and concerns a point on which a dystonia was detected in the transitional rule, which had become the elusive element in relation to Legislative Decree No 242 of 1999; it was therefore clear that the Commission's interest was limited to that element. All the reflections introduced by Senator Davico I believe are a sign that the Assembly, the political class of this country as a whole, addresses the theme of sports in all its facets. However, I do not think it is right to use that argument - let me say this, Senator Davico, we have known each other for a long time - as an element to diminish the work, even unitary, that we have managed to do in the Commission, even by correcting certain aspects. I say this because in the Assembly of the House there is incardinated a provision that is in the amending phase, therefore in a fairly advanced state, that concerns the discipline of the basic sport, where the themes sport, sociality, well-being and lifestyles adhere exactly to the overall reflection. When dealing with the subject of sport, starting also from the limits of mandate, the interest and gaze of the government and the majority who support it adhere to this philosophy. There are acts of direction, which have already been answered, with respect to the part of the transparency of the funding that the State gives to bodies governed by public law; I believe that we have the issue so that a reasoning can be opened and an order placed on this subject. One last question, Madam President. In this measure, which is of parliamentary origin, we have recorded one element: when we want it, we look not in the abstract at a lack of ideology of sport, but at the idea of addressing a knot that responds to a number of needs and we have made it prevail the reasonableness of what was the objective we were setting ourselves. Woe to separate the parliamentary commitments, even in circumscribed matters, from the lack of vision. And this - as Senator Puglisi reminded us now - is true as regards, for example, some norms that we have introduced into the good school, with the recovery of the value of the motor and psychic activity of the very young, starting from the elementary schools; we have addressed the issue of plant engineering, one of the other issues very felt in this country, ensuring that the plant is entrusted also to the management of the CONI, with an idea of the peripheries that binds to the reasoning of Senator Davico. All these issues have a single objective: a country is competitive when it comes to the international scene and structure with two conditions, that is, when it has certain rules, applicable and controllable, and above all a vision in which not only economic or macroeconomic aspects exist, but also an idea in which a community is reunited. In this sense, it is no coincidence that this Assembly of the Senate, to which I have participated, has ratified an important measure, which also seemed to be very restrictive, on the extension of the possibility for young non-Italians but foreigners to join the federations, testifying that the commitment of sport starts precisely from this ability of inclusion from the enhancement of sociality. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u27	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u28	Madam President, I have prepared amendment 1,500 (text 2/2) to put this limit back on the members of the governing bodies, because we are again allowing the world of sport to have such a large number of mandates and there are no adequate limits. I would therefore ask Members to reflect on these aspects, but above all on how to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u29	Madam President, I would first like to remind Senator Puglisi that we are dealing with a draft law and not with constitutional reform, because we are trying to cooperate on this text. As Senator Marin said, Forza Italia faced the examination of the bill in question with a spirit of collaboration, as has always been the case in the field of sport in the Italian Republic: it happened in the first and second Republics and I do not know which one is today. In the light of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur and, above all, of the rewording she has informed me, she intends to table amendment 2,500, and I withdraw all the amendments I have tabled. [[Applause from Senator Puglisi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u30	To be precise, Senator Carraro: do you withdraw all the amendments at your first signature on all the articles? Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). That's right. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u31	Madam President, I would ask you to accept amendment 1,500 (text 2), while I am against all the other amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u32	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u33	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,500 (text 2/1). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u36	CASTALDI (M5S). I wanted to subscribe to Senator Blundo's amendment 1,500 (text 2)/2 and, at this point, I would like to take the opportunity to endorse all the subsequent amendments tabled by Senator Blundo.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u37	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,500 (text 2)/1, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,500 (text 2/2), tabled by Senators Blundo and Castaldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u40	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, our entire Group supports the amendments tabled by Senator Blundo to all the articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u41	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1,500 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteur, which is entirely a replacement for the article. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,100 and 1,101 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u42	Madam President, I would like to put to the House some rewordings to Amendment 2,500 (text 2). In Article 2, second paragraph, third sentence, before the words: "to the end" I ask to insert the words: "wherever the statutes provide for representation by delegation, the CONI". Also in the third period, after the word: "provision" I propose to insert the words: "general principles" instead of the words: "criteria" and "modes". In the fourth period, after the "CONI" I propose to insert the words: "previa diffida". The principles introduced with the previous amendment are to be applied consistently to all legislation concerning the Italian Paralympic Committee, governed by amendment 2.0.500 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u43	With regard to the rapporteur's amendment 2,500 (correct text 2), on the issue of delegations, I would ask that a number be granted in proportion to the number of members because not all federations and associations have the same amount of associates. If we have a sports association with a small number of members, it is clear that five delegations would be excessive. They could be given two to five depending on the number of associates. I would also ask for a maximum of two preferences, meaning by preference the indication of names. We do not understand why we do not want to accept this minimum protection of honesty, loyalty and fairness, in the context of the election of presidents, knowing that some presidents of sports federations have been in office for more than fifteen years. Colleagues, do we or do we not want to put transparency and honesty in sport, taking advantage of the fact that we are approving a bill (not a delegation law that commits the Government)? I really don't know when we want to intervene to clean up the sport for our young people. Here it is a question of asking for a maximum of two preferences to be expressed, indicating their names, because when they are more than two, real strings are established to get elected who they say. Is this the correctness of Italian sport? No. It is not possible to continue on this line. Since the debate in the Commission, we have tried to bring this transparency. At first, the limit of two mandates and the maximum of one delegation had also been accepted. Now we've brought the delegation to five. Do we at least want to be cautious from the point of view of preferences? I repeat: two preferences at most, then written names indicated on the card. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u46	Conte (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, following the rewording of the rapporteur's amendment, I withdraw amendment 2,500 (text 2/2). 11:03 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u47	Mr President, with Amendment 2,500 (text 2)/5 we ask that the rapporteur's amendment should not apply to social promotion associations or in any case to other sports associations. We ask this because it becomes difficult for sports associations to distangle themselves in the vastness of the regulations to which they have to submit. Over the years, these associations have had to adapt their statutes to the requirements of Legislative Decree no. 460 of 1997, as they will have to do as a result of the recent approval of the law delegation on the third sector, and consequently add a further increase of adaptation to a legislation that concerns, above all, the federations of the CONI. This seems to us to be an excessive increase because we are talking - this is really - about the basic sports volunteering on the ground. Among other things, I would like to remind you that in many statutes, precisely because of the small margin of statutory autonomy that these legislative references I was talking about allow, the three mandates are very often non-existent. Fortunately we are talking about two mandates, so we are ahead of what is proposed for the CONI.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u48	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u49	I am against the sub-amendments tabled at 2,500 (text 2 corrected). The possibility offered by sub-amendment 2,500 (text 2 corrected)/5, however, is still given with my amendment because if a statute of the federation provides for a lower number of mandates, it is allowed to do so. Of course, I am in favour of amendments 2,500 (text 2 corrected) and 2.0,500 (text 2 corrected), while I am against Amendment 2.0,500 (text 2 corrected)/1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u50	The opinion of the Government is in line with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u51	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,500 (text 2 corrected)/1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u54	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, before we vote, we would like to have the opportunity to read the text of the reworded amendments in order to understand the changes made.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u55	Senator Petraglia, the texts of the rewordings have been read in the Chamber. However, printed texts will be readily distributed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,500 (correct text 2)/1, tabled by Senator Blondo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,500 (text 2 corrected)/2 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,500 (correct text 2)/3, tabled by Senator Blondo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,500 (text 2 corrected)/4.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u58	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, our previous amendments relating to more comprehensive aspects have been rejected (i.e. the number of mandates between two and five). However, I now ask the House to consider amendment 2,500 (correct text 2)/4, which does not affect the number of delegations and mandates on which the Democratic Party has agreed with Senator Carraro and the Forza Italia Group, as usual demonstrating unity. This amendment merely states that any voter may express at most two preferences for the governing bodies of the ICONs and national federations. We're talking about the governing bodies. Each Senator must take responsibility today for his vote on this amendment, because you have been informed that allowing more than two preferences to be expressed involves non-fair forms of election of the governing bodies.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u59	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,500 (correct text 2)/4, tabled by Senator Blondo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,500 (text 2 corrected)/5, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2,500 (correct text 2) tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,100 and 2,300 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0,500 (text 2 corrected)/1, tabled by Senator Blondo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.0,500 (text 2 corrected), tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.0,100 to 2.0,103 have been withdrawn; amendments 3,100 and 3,101, 4,100, 4,101 and 4,103 have also been withdrawn. I would remind you that Article 3 will not be put to the vote in relation to the adoption of amendment 2,500 (correct text 2), entirely replacing Article 2, deletion of Article 3 and foreclosure of amendment 4,102. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Rule 4. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u62	LIUZZI (CoR). Mr President, there is no point in hiding that the somewhat troubled process of this draft law has been focused on the issue of the number of mandates of the presidents of the CONI and the sports and territorial federations. On this the difficult mediation has finally been resolved by the use of common sense and also capacity, by the 7th Commission (of which I am part on behalf of the Group of Conservatives and Reformists) and the entire Assembly, to reconcile different sensibilities from the cultural point of view, the sporting experience and the concept that everyone has of sport, sports practice and sporting value in society, also in the light of the changed needs of economic and social nature and national and international legislative contexts. We agree on the limit of the three mandates because we believe that in this way we have found a harmonization of the needs of the small and large federations, of those who enjoy good health within the national sports organizations, and of those who (I think of the smaller federations) are breathtaking. Therefore, the number of three mandates seems appropriate to us. Among other things, it is now in line with the new directives of the International Olympic Committee, which recently provided for three four-year mandates each with regard to the governance of this organisation. The three mandates, in my opinion, also show another side of the medal (speaking of sport we are talking about medals), that is a greater responsibility for the management of sport, also in view of what appears to be the long season of the candidacy of Rome, and therefore of Italy, to host the next Olympics of 2024. This means that management, so reassured and reassured about the large number of mandates, could work to ensure that within the federations the practice, training and preparation are carried out with the utmost serenity and commitment. This also means reaping the most significant fruits compared to what will be the final result of the Italian teams in 2024. I would also like to recommend, on behalf of the Group of Conservatives and Reformists, following our vote in favour, the need for the federations, starting with CONI, to increasingly form the leading class of sport in Italy. All disciplines need real skills, which could offer an opportunity to work also to those graduates in motor disciplines and in management and governance of sport that in Italian or foreign universities have acquired the title. Finally, let us put these young people in a position to be able to work and explain as much as they have learned and how creative they bring in the profession and profession to which they apply. As a result of these considerations and these reasonings, I announce, on behalf of the Group of Conservatives and Reformists, the vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u65	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, the CONI is a non-economic public body under the supervision of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities, and it is very important because some 95,000 sports clubs are affiliated to it, accounting for about 11 million members. The a bit nice thing I've been looking for in these days is that with Constitutional Law No. 3 of 2001 there has also been the reform of Article 117 of the Constitution with which, for the first time, the word "sport" has been inserted within the text of our maximum legislative act, even if it must be remembered indirectly, that already Article 2 of the Constitution recognizes and guarantees the inviolable rights of the individual not only as a single person, but also in social formations (this is the sporting order where the personality of the individual takes place). We took a look at the reports related to this bill and there were a little'special explanations with which you wanted at all costs to sweeten the pill by increasing from two to three the limit of the number of mandates for the executives of the CONI. It is clear that sport has a strong and heavy social and educational role: the formation of character, the prevention of certain forms of disease and the growth of children. With regard to the issue of enlargement from two to three mandates, we were not particularly passionate about the subject. Perhaps it would have been more appropriate to address the issue and review the laws that lead us to think that the violence in the stadiums is not debellabile, when these phenomena kill the spirit with which we make sport and represent the absolute denial of all the principles that govern it. Perhaps we should consider these matters. As always, the school is the big accused, because it is certainly not well equipped to play a very important role for children. Maybe it was also necessary to put hand to those laws that still cannot support the activities and sports that are considered minor and that are practiced by children, perhaps in the speakers, but that for economic reasons also sometimes are not carried out. In this way they disperse the ability to learn proper to these young people, especially in a certain area of our country. We also thought that perhaps in a law we could consider that there are hundreds of thousands of volunteers who may receive little media attention, who every day bring children to the speakers, treat them and allow them to practice various sports. But perhaps we have in mind with this law to ensure that all the presidents of the sports associations, at all levels, have the same chance of being known on the scene and of having the spotlight of the media pointed. There are so many executives who, in various ways, deal with children and sometimes it is also difficult to find someone who engages in a serious and continuous way in those smaller companies that are sometimes self-financed and the presidents themselves finance them. We have read the report on the measure: it is a page and a half, in which you have really tried to enable those who have to pass this law to be convinced that it is a good law. I would just like to make two points: I have taken some account of the servant to try to understand what the three mandates could lead to, if not to the fact that the current President could potentially skip a year and complete the eventual Olympics in Rome. Perhaps it would have been better to write this in two lines in the law, that is that Mr. Malagò was allowed to conclude in 2025 his mandate in such a way as to bring to completion the eventual Olympics of Rome. I am told that a good job has also been done in the Commission. By the way, it took about three years to bring this measure to the House. I would simply like to close with a joke to Senator Puglisi: it is true that I will vote firmly no to the referendum that will take place in the autumn, for a very simple reason. If it took you three years to bring to the House a law that provides for the transfer from two to three years of the mandates of the President of CONI (and someone in this House also argued that the original text was not exactly the best of life and has undergone several changes to be improved), I simply say that, without the need to eliminate one of the two Chambers, one could have written a more serious bill at the beginning and perhaps, in a couple of months, the problem would have been solved. With these considerations I announce the abstaining vote of the Lega Nord Group on the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u68	DAVICO (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I said in general debate, it is embarrassing today to have to dedicate this vote only to the limits of the mandates. I am not losing the value of this text of the law, which is basically a way of dealing with sport in this House. Unfortunately, we are faced with an attempt to innovate an issue that has become degenerate, but which in fact goes furbly to validate and crystallize and, I dare say, to share a status quo that has become absolutely unacceptable today. Therefore, it is precisely the example that documents how today the CONI is no longer all sport and how sport is not just CONI. At least this happens in reality, every day, in large metropolitan areas and in small countries. Are we dealing with bureaucracy and governance or sport today? Colleagues, we must remember that it is sport, sport, that on the shoulders of our families that, when they want to put a sporting activity in the education of their children, they must turn to those thousands of volunteers, mentioned by all and who really applaud us all. Above all, families must put their hands on the portfolio, on the face of too many hundreds of millions, completely out of balance, which are in many cases wasted or misspent. Will this law give us an opportunity to talk about sport policy, transparency and renewal? Let us take charge of it, and not only through the investments to which Mrs Puglisi referred appropriately. There remains the problem of social sport, basic sport, health sport, sport for the environment, sport for young people, sport for the elderly, sport for the physical well-being, sport as a social phenomenon. Colleagues, while appreciating the effort to put hand to the topic of sport and the harmony with which, as the Government has recalled through my colleague Amici, has proceeded in the Commission and while respecting the various sensibilities present within the Group to which I belong, today I announce my abstention vote on this measure, in controversy with the lightness with which we deal with the CONI and the highest national summits of our sport. I am waiting for answers (and I have already mentioned this before) on this desirable reorganization of our sports policies, sports socio-society, sports socio-cultural. In fact, at least in this respect, I take the positive aspect of the opportunity to start an innovative speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u71	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we have heard very interesting words in the speeches before us about the high value of sport. We all recognise the particular value of sport for the health and well-being of citizens. Nor can we underestimate its social value and its value for integration. But I think we all agree on that. Sport is an important part of welfare and social cohesion, because it breaks down discriminatory barriers and promotes integration. Let's think about the ease with which sport promotes social inclusion and how sport helps in welcoming, comparing with others, in building the collective dimension. Sport helps in the fight against lawlessness and mafias, because sport is rules and game and the two aspects are very connected. I am thinking of the role sport plays in the growth of children and the importance of investing, from early childhood, from school to sport. In recent years, however, we have heard little about all this from governments because little has been devoted to sport, and above all little to basic sport, to what should be guaranteed to all. The focus has often been on major events and the construction of large plants. Huge resources have been invested for the construction of sports facilities, often unused and unfinished, creating real concrete monsters in cities, without urban planning, and which often, too often, have produced corruption in procurement. Recent stories. We have seen the construction of new facilities in cities where they would not be necessary and nothing has been invested in the construction of sports facilities, even small provided sufficient and useful, in small centres, in the South, in the outskirts, where the promotion of sports practice would have an immense value of social inclusion and equality. So today we would have liked the Senate Chamber, which meets for the first time to talk about sport, to have the opportunity to talk about this. This is not the case because, of course, we should have faced an act of parliamentary initiative or of the Government, but this Government, I would like to remind you, does not have a Ministry of Sport. After the parenthesis of Delrio's delegation, we still do not officially know who follows the sport, without taking anything away from the Subsecretary present, whom we of course thank. So the first act we're discussing today is a draft law on the mandates of the CONI. We are told that governance must be taken care of before the tide, the waters and the mountains. In short, it is clear, it seems obvious to us and we have also seen it in the debate in the Commission, that there is a real attempt to transfer the functions of the Ministry of Sport to CONI. This, of course, is very serious. Above all, we are talking about an institution that manages millions of funds. The Commission, at this time, is engaged in a debate on a sport deal, so we are listening to the diverse world of sport. For this reason it would have been useful to speak of much more and instead today we find ourselves, after a work in the Commission - someone has remembered - lasted about three years, of long mediation and of long discussion of which I confess we have not even well understood the meaning, considering the negotiation that took place mainly outside the classrooms of the Commission, after having found a definition of a text that already did not convince us much (in three years), we found ourselves a few days ago, with this bill on the agenda of the House for months, with amendments of the rapporteur who in fact put into question the work that we have done in the Commission. We wondered why, but today, in the course of the debate, we well understood what happened. We are told that we must align ourselves with international bodies such as the IOC; I would like to say that sooner or later we should also open a debate on how they are reformed, how they are moralized; this work begins to do so from here. We do not simply confine ourselves to the question of the mandate, because it is not the only point relating to the moralization of public bodies that manage millions of state funds. Today, in fact, the withdrawal of Senator Carraro's amendments clearly tells us that the new text arrived in the Chamber is a perfect agreement between the Democratic Party and Forza Italia; an agreement, I say it bluntly, between centres of power in sport that have nothing to do with what a Government could do for sport and for the promotion of sport. It is no coincidence that the change of the three mandates, has already been said by those who preceded me, is certainly a way to align the discussion with what will happen in 2024 if Rome were to be the place where the Olympics will be held. Of course, all this affects what has happened in the last few weeks with the local elections. We're not stupid enough not to understand what's already going on. I also think that the mandates of this bill all in all count very little. It would have been much more important to make a serious reflection on how this Government should intervene in the field of sport, including the need to reform the large bodies that manage - I repeat - important and substantial public resources. For this reason, I declare the Italian Left voting against. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u74	Conte (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, what we are about to vote on is in itself a simple, monothematic measure which refers to a specific and well-defined subject; the process it has met was undoubtedly a long one, which began in the 7th Commission in January 2014, which ended in September 2015, in order to meet a long pause at the conference of group leaders, before the arrival in this House. There is no doubt that the long and rather troubled course of this measure is symptomatic of how diverse the positions are on these issues. I must acknowledge the rapporteur's success, despite the many perplexities and in some cases also resistance, in bringing this bill to pass after a patient work of mediation and conciliation of different expectations, positions and interests. Putting a maximum limit on the number of mandates at the top of the CONI and the various sports federations does not correspond to a logic of fine replacement in itself, but rather to the need to bring innovative ideas and new energies that are most necessary in the management of sports organisations. This factor is considered to be particularly important for sports promotion agencies, for the governing bodies of the territorial structures of national sports federations and associated sports disciplines, where very often the activity of the managers is carried out essentially in a totally voluntary form and where the continuing too long of the managers may be limiting the need to broaden the involvement in the management of the activities. It is a principle that seems to be strained with the need for great experience, especially at international level, where relationships, credibility, collaborations and alliances count a great deal to enable positive spill-overs at internal level. Relationships, collaboration and credibility are acquired, however, with time, with the consolidation of the relationships themselves; for this reason, not applying retroactivity, as provided for in the original measure, allows to gradually absorb, therefore not traumatic, the new forecast of the limit to the number of mandates. And this is particularly important since Cortina's nominations for the 2021 Ski World Championships and Rome for the 2024 Olympics are underway. The second issue facing this bill is the number of delegations that can be exercised. Indeed, the number of 40 envisaged by the ICON also for other federations is high, probably excessive. The proposed limit of 5 calls on all those responsible for the associations to participate more directly and responsibly, without creating problems for the management of the directives, which has been a concern raised by the current managements. To say that sport in Italy is a social phenomenon with great importance also from an economic point of view is not daring; it is the simple photograph of the situation and this measure fits in at a time when, without diminishing the importance that sport has had even in recent years, it is assisting (we call Istat data, therefore official data), after a few years of bending, to a resumption of the sport practice, especially of the basic practice, that at school and youth level, and also from the group of people of the old age. According to the recent Istat study, the increase is recorded in all age groups, but with a more determined growth among six-ten-year-olds (where the share increases from 59.5 percent to 65.3 percent) and among people residing in the city center of the metropolitan area. The practice of sports, in fact, decreases as you descend from the North to the South; it ranges from 39 percent to 23.9%, although the share goes up to 26.8% among the residents of the islands. Furthermore, gender differences are marked in the ISTAT survey: 28.3 percent of men practice sports continuously while another 11.4 percent do so occasionally; instead, women's quotas fall to 19.5 percent and 7.7 percent. Only among the very small (three, five years) there is a greater incidence of girls doing sports, an aspect that makes hope for the future. Parents' sports practice also positively influences their children's sports practice. These data must be carefully analysed both at political level and at local government level, as well as by federations and sports associations to plan, each for its own competences and responsibilities new scenarios for Italian sport. I am also referring to the investigation being carried out by the 7th Commission - mentioned earlier by the rapporteur, Mrs Idem - on the state of sport in Italy, which I assume will be concluded before the summer, after a long series of hearings that have allowed the 360-degree examination of all the problems of sport, with a document that will provide indications and perspectives for future sports policies in Italy. The People's Area vote on this bill will be in favour. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u77	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the important measure before us wanted to regulate a sector, sport, the value of which is 1.71 percent of GDP and is practised by 13 million Italians. This bill could have a strongly symbolic value, because its original ratio converged with one of the key proposals of the 5 Star Movement, i.e. the imperative limit of the two mandates for the most important public positions, from the parliamentarians to the apical grades of public bodies or societies. With this bill it was also intended to give a time limit to the appointment of the President of the CONI, the members of the top management bodies and the presidents and leaders of the sports federations, as well as the associated sports disciplines. In the 7th Commission we have worked hard to try to maintain this initial approach, which would certainly have represented a major change at all levels in the management of self-government bodies of sport, and helped immediately to remove the CONI and national sports federations from the control of those ruling classes that for long periods governed Italian sport, crystallizing its management with partition logics directly associated with traditional parties. However, we were only partially able to achieve the objective, because after the adoption in 7th Commission of an amendment to my first signature, with which the limit of the two mandates was more clearly established than the original text, and the prohibition, for the election of the presidents and members of the governing bodies of the federations, of expressing by delegation more than one vote, was followed by the adoption of an amendment by the rapporteur, which introduced a transitional discipline whereby the parties in office on the date of entry into force of the draft law under consideration were allowed to carry out two further mandates, if elected. This rule had already been foreseen by the rapporteur, Idem, with the unspeakable but clear objective of delaying that generational change that our country needs, also in sport, as well as to strengthen those position income and those mechanisms that now for decades ensure an elitist management of sport. For this reason, I proposed an amendment in this House which laid down the inapplicability of the transitional rule for those who, for at least ten years, have been at national and territorial level, top positions in the context of the CONI and sports federations, so as to create a real zero year for the top of the sport and to favour, precisely, that breath of new air that only a real generational change can guarantee. Dear colleagues in the Democratic Party, in these three years of government you have preached well and badly rocketed, you have spoken as scrapers and acted as restorers. In fact, if we analyze the political action of this Government, it is not difficult to understand how Prime Minister Renzi, just installed at Palazzo Chigi, has broken his ideas instead of strong powers, with which he continues to make agreements. A further confirmation of this was received with the draft law under discussion, when, just yesterday, the rapporteur, Idem, with whom the conditions were initially created to work fruitfully, was forced to abandon the good intentions of collaboration and to bow the head in the face of the logical blackmailings that govern the Democratic Party, presenting some amendments that totally upset the bill initially envisaged, including the possibility for the President of the CONI and the members of the national junta to carry out three mandates and no more two, as well as the possibility within the elected assemblies of being able to exercise up to five delegations and no more one, as we had rightly obtained in the Commission. These are choices, which demonstrate the will of the Government and the Democratic Party not to guarantee the normal alternation of presidential and managerial positions in the world of sport, but to crystallize them, as if sport were a private, almost personal issue, on which parties are interested exclusively to exercise, for the purposes of consensus, their influence and their power, even with the exclusive presence of the CONI within schools. After these agreements, well highlighted by the withdrawal of all of Senator Carraro's amendments, the proposed amendments to my colleague Idem were rejected with sub-amendments to our signature which re-introduced the limit of the two mandates and linked the amount of delegation to be exercised to the number of members of the individual national federations and associated sports disciplines. Even more serious is the fact that the amendment that has just been tabled has been rejected and that, for each voter, the possibility of expressing at most two preferences for the leading bodies of the CONI and the national federations, indispensable to guarantee greater transparency and democracy in the world of sport, but that certainly went to crush with that dangerous vision that sees the highest positions of sport closely dependent on the parties, to the point of establishing that typical mechanism of do ut des that allows the parties to feed each other. Consider, for example, the possible assignment of the 2024 Olympic Games to the city of Rome. The current president of CONI Giovanni Malagò has announced, in case Rome gets the games, that he wants the construction of the new Olympic village in Tor Vergata: green areas that would like to be built entirely, there are even 15,000 former novo apartments, to the joy of the influential Roman palazzinari. But Rome is now governed by the 5 Star Movement and even if you wanted to make the home plan in Rome, the time of the fat cows is over, it is over! We have Rome and 12 municipalities! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If you have, therefore, the weight of this scenario, of the many interests that gravitate around sport and, finally, of the fact that the measure under consideration, with the usual blow of the majority, has turned into the yet another bluff of the renziana era (now at the drop), you understand well the reasons that lead us to continue our battle of transparency and democracy in the House and to vote now firmly no. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u80	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Madam Undersecretary, rapporteur, members of the Committee on Culture, Colleagues and Colleagues, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and the whole of the Committee on Culture for the work they have done over the past three years, which have been mentioned. I would also like to thank them for the fact that they are trying to deepen with great seriousness various aspects of Italian sport, as highlighted by the speeches both in explanation of vote and in general discussion, in which Forza Italia participated with a person who knows something about sport. Senator Marin as a senator can also be questioned, but as an Olympic champion I think it is absolutely indisputable for prestige, as he won the gold medal at the Los Angeles Olympics in 1984. [[Applause from Senator Collina.]] This debate has certainly highlighted how important Italian sport is in this country. But is Italian sport all beautiful and positive? Absolutely not; there are errors, shortcomings, shortcomings and discrasies; bad things happen. For example, there is a problem that concerns women: on the one hand women participate in the Olympics for 47% - the participation of women is therefore substantial - and they win medals for our country too, but on the other hand they have a clearly discriminated against men because too few are among the leaders. There's still a lot to do. However, as far as Italian sport is concerned, if you look at how much the state invests compared to other sectors of activity in the country, and how much sport produces in terms of economic and social results, I believe that the budget is overall positive. I would like to remind you, among other things, that up to 2003 the CONI lived 50% of the proceeds of totocalcio and that the other 50% went to the state. The totalocalcio has run out of its cycle, but now it is true that the CONI takes 400 million from the state with the law of stability, but it is equally true that from the sports betting alone the state gets 600 million. Therefore, even today, if we consider how much the State invests at the central and peripheral level and how much sport produces, even as taxes paid by sports companies on television rights, I believe that sport as a whole behaves well towards our country. As far as the measure before us is concerned, we have reached a logical compromise. Let us not forget that the basis of Italian sport is represented by volunteers. All those who are elected to the federal councils of federations, sports promotion agencies and non-recognized associations of paralympic activity are volunteers who, only in certain cases, receive reimbursements. A large number of sports clubs go on because volunteers put time and money, which are increasingly difficult to find because the economic crisis means that people have less time and less money to anticipate the expenses of the young people who have to leave. I don't want to go too far to explain a mechanism you know. On the number of mandates we make a balanced intervention because, on the one hand, we do not operate a revolution and, on the other, we copy what is done abroad. Abroad, in countries similar to ours, such as France, Germany, the United Kingdom and Spain, there is currently no mandate limit, but it is beginning to be introduced. The International Olympic Committee for its President has a limit of 12 years, which is equivalent to three mandates. The International Football Federation, hit by the various scandals, has introduced the three-term limit for four years, exactly as this provision provides. Just two months ago, "Francois Carrare," the author of this reform, explained to the Culture Commission of the Council of Europe, to which some senators belong, why the three mandates represented a fair compromise between the need for replacement, on the one hand, and the need to ensure continuity in the activities of national federations on the other. In fact, the activities of the latter are also projected at international level, where the various federations meet once a year: in case the mandates were too few, Italy would be in a situation of difficulty. For these reasons, Forza Italia, in accordance with its spirit of opposition party, which nevertheless seeks to cooperate constructively in Parliament, as yesterday voted on the measure on international missions, today gives its vote in favour of the measure under consideration, reaffirming that it is important to deal with sport. It is also important to help small sports clubs, without creating conflicts between those companies operating in the federation or promotional bodies. They are just label differentiations that do not exist on the territory among sports enthusiasts. If sport goes on it's because the municipalities collaborate with sports clubs, with some schools, and you also manage to cover voids that actually exist. These sports clubs are often blocked, paralyzed in their activities for bureaucratic pastries and fiscal formalisms that do not bring money to the state but create considerable problems for their leaders. Today we approve of a serious measure. Let's not stop here. Above all, we are trying to help the grassroots sports clubs. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u83	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, what is finally coming to this House today is an important measure. We have the opportunity to talk again about sport. I say again because, thanks to the Government, thanks to all of us, we recently talked about interventions on sports infrastructure; we talked about inclusion - I remember - especially with respect to children, through common sense measures. We're working on schools. I remember that the school reform gave much more space to sport than it had previously. Finally the Italian Parliament and the Italian Government are dealing with sport with a decision. So, you get to do normative processes, even complex ones, that have needed insights, understanding. However - I say this as a representative of the Democratic Party - I take credit. My colleagues have the merit, in particular, of raising this issue decisively and forcefully - I am thinking of my fellow Members, Mr Ranucci and Mr Puglisi - asking for a limit to the mandates, because in certain specific situations the lack of limits had led to certain degenerations. I have heard criticism from this House about the mandates (three, two, one opportunity or the other). Of course we have made our own assessments, our own in-depth studies. We understood the interest of Italian sport at the international level. We have made the following choices and also agreements with a part of the opposition, which has proved willing to cooperate with us. However, to hear a part of this House say that it did not even notice and that it had not had any proposals on this issue or to listen to criticism that today, at last, we set a limit to the mandates I consider frankly unacceptable and difficult to understand. We continue to deal with sports and do so today with this measure. I would like to thank the rapporteur, all the Members who have participated in the work of the Commission and all the political forces. Moreover, the Commission for Public Education, Cultural Heritage, is working very hard on sport. Thanks to the pressure of Senators Marin and Sibilia and, above all, of Senator Idem, the Presidency of the Senate has assigned to the Commission a deal, requested by us, on the state of health of sport, just to testify how important, in our opinion, sport is for the country and for the formation and education of our young people, with its powerful social function, also of inclusion. Sport is relevant because it affects tens of millions of people and must do so not only when there are big events, but in everyday life. The State, the Government and Parliament cannot be opponents of sport, but - indeed - they must be its allies and find ways to cooperate with it and support it. Today sport is experiencing a moment of great difficulty. What we call sports leaders are often volunteers who dedicate their days, weekends and evenings to athletes and this essential training for our country. We have begun to give rules, first of all with the provision of the three mandates, just as - it has been mentioned just now - with regard to international bodies, which have this duration. We have the interest and ambition to continue to count internationally. I understand that someone has the ambition that Italy doesn't have in international sport, but we still want the Olympics of 2024 to take place in Rome. I hope that the city of Rome and its new mayor will change their minds and that they will be willing to engage with Parliament and the Government. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Also because - I remind my colleagues - we have finally spoken and continue to talk about the new Olympics, with a different logic in terms of investments and infrastructure and in the context of a social and urban context that allows then to make available to the community the structures realized. Parliament wants to continue to deal with sport, but it does make decisions. This measure is, in my opinion, important, because it affects millions of Italian members in sport and organisations, small and large, decisive for the social life of our communities. We had the courage to make a compromise, to find the right solution and to look at the interests of sport and, at the same time, of our country. We have done so and we are voting in this House today for this measure. The Democratic Party has been instrumental in this process and we are firmly in favour of this bill. [[Applause from the PD and FI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u86	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u87	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group]] In view of what has already been said about the need for a parliamentary group, let us turn to the speeches at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u90	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, it was 1979 when the municipality of Somma Vesuviana assigned to Soficoop SpA (so it was not a cooperative, but it had only this fake name and today it is a company in liquidation) the construction of houses under a regional ban for the construction of buildings. It was assigned to Soficoop, in addition to the construction and sale of the buildings, also the task of dealing with the expropriations of the land and the relative compensations to the owners. The Municipality remained responsible for ensuring the proper conduct of all these processes. On the property side, the assignors paid to Soficoop a deposit of 80 million of the old lire; the remaining 60 would be paid through a loan to be made with the Banco di Napoli. As far as land is concerned, however, the landowners were never paid any compensation by Soficoop. What were the consequences? It was never possible for the assigners to apply for the loans (although they had paid to Soficoop) and then to conclude the final contracts, because Soficoop, having not provided the expropriations (while the Municipality slept), did not in fact have any title to sell the apartments. In the meantime, what has the city been doing over the years? It has provided forcefully compensation to landowners, who had sued; the operation cost three million euros to the coffers of the municipality (and of the submerged taxpayers, of course). Soficoop is currently in liquidation and on the apartments started a credit recovery procedure for the party that was not paid, because it was legally possible to do so, while for the assigners it was not legally possible to take the other party, for the reasons we saw before. Now what's going on? This debt recovery involves the sale at auction and the subsequent eviction of fifty families, who have paid and who have lived there until today. They are families that have no responsibility but to have paid the savings of a life in an initiative that must have been on paper a facilitated process and that has turned, for a sum of inefficiencies and bad faith between public and private institutions, into an immense scam to their detriment. At the end of June, the first auctions and subsequent evictions are planned: an endless nightmare. We have put a question to the relevant ministries to intervene in this matter, because it is not possible that these families, who have been conned (and the municipality has slept), are now being evicted, with their houses sold at auction. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u93	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, yesterday, in my speech at the end of the sitting, I spoke about the story of the vegan child of Genoa. Well, in my speech yesterday I had the opportunity to quote my telephone address with the health director of the hospital Gaslini in Genoa, who told me that the child, during the period of weaning, had also eaten Parmesan. This removes any doubt that the child could be vegan. Yet since yesterday we continue to write - they have also talked about it in RAI - that this two-year-old girl of Genoa is in resuscitation for the vegan diet. We can say that the child was definitely not vegan. In my speech yesterday I also mentioned a previous case, of 15 October (yesterday I spoke erroneously of Treviso, but in reality it was the case of Belluno). Again, on October 15, I contacted the medical director of the health department of the hospital in Belluno, who clarified the matter unequivocally. While the newspapers continued to write "Child vegan in hospital: new case in Belluno", in fact the medical director made it clear to me that it was not a child fed exclusively vegetable foods, but simply a child who had a problem with weaning, as happens to many children. For this reason, just yesterday I remembered that it is not the case to exploit family and personal tragedies that can affect any child for whom the media punctually attempt to blame all the vegan diet. Finally, I would like to remind you that there has recently been a campaign promoted by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy entitled "Ora del latte" in which Carlo Cracco, well-known chef, journalist Cristina Parodi and nutritionist doctor Giorgio Calabrese, have been invited to participate for the promotion and enhancement of fresh milk. Parodi in the commercial says: In the morning, to start the day with vitality, I choose fresh milk. Well, the LAV intervened and blocked the advertising campaign of the Ministry of Agricultural Policies "Hour of Milk." In fact, the Institute of advertising self-discipline intervened and changed the pages of the site paid for with public money. In addition, the advertising regulatory body has written, on the basis of the documented scientific complaint, that the protein and nutrients provided by cow's milk can be replaced without inconvenience by other non-animal foods. I therefore believe that it is time to end this attack on those who have consciously chosen to follow a completely vegetal diet that, as I always say, is good for animals, for the planet (because it is the only sustainable food) and above all it is good for people's health. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u96	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, we learn from the press today that a decision of the TAR Lazio, following an appeal lodged by some theatrical associations, including the Teatro Elfo Puccini in Milan and the Teatro Regio in Parma, has repealed the Ministerial Decree of August 2014 which intervened on the mechanisms for the distribution of the funding of the Single Fund for the show in relation to live performance. This is a measure that had been written by a hand known within the Ministry and also to the world of live entertainment, that of the former general manager Salvatore Nastasi. At the news of the enactment of this ministerial decree, the world of live entertainment had risen, because within the measure an algorithm was introduced as a mechanism of operation, which objectively should have established which associations would have been beneficiary of the financing, thus eliminating any criterion of subjectivity based on the evaluation of the commissions. Among other things, this decree would have sanctioned the closure of many realities, which promote culture throughout the national territory, especially in the theatrical, musical and dance world. Well, we asked a question and we told Mr Franceschini that this ministerial decree was negative because it would have sanctioned the death of so many cultural realities. We even drew the attention of Minister Franceschini to the resignation of Silvia Colasanti from the music committee, presented to protest not only for the operation of the commission, but also against the mechanisms introduced by the aforementioned decree. However, Minister Franceschini did not want to listen to us, as usual, and he did not even want to listen to the appeal of the artists, who collected 3,500 signatures. In fact, I remember very well that in one of the last hearings in which the Minister was referred to these facts, he basically replied: you like it or you don't like it, so it is. The 5 Star Movement is preparing to submit a question, because clearly this judgment in fact repeals that ministerial decree, it will probably block the provision of this funding and paralyze a system. We have read that all this is under the scrutiny of the Directorate-General for Live Show. We will be asking the Minister for Cultural Activities what he intends to do and whether this time he intends to allow a proper parliamentary passage, involving the relevant Commissions. Let us hope that we do not receive a bleak answer and that it does not conform to the figure of a minister, which is precisely that: you like it or you don't like it, so it is. Take note of this, Minister Franceschini. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u97	In the meantime we begin to hope that the answer will come, then we will judge on the quality.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-651.ana.u98	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.16 a.m.
