ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: "Rome, 11 February 2016 Honourable President, I inform you that by my decree on 10 February 2016, after hearing the Council of Ministers, I conferred to the Minister without portfolio on. Dr. Enrico Costa, pursuant to Article 9 of Law No 400 of 23 August 1988, is responsible for regional affairs and self-government. F. to Matteo Renzi
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u6	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I will only take a few moments from you and I would ask you, of course, to bring these remarks to the attention of President Grasso as well. There are questions from all the groups that deal with the same subjects, but unfortunately only a few of them are included on the agenda, on which the government will then respond. I note, by chance, that, for example, a question on post offices is about to be examined, on which questions are also being submitted by my Group, as well as by other groups, which were not considered in the reply. Apart from the question of respect for the proposer, I believe that, even for an organic organisation of the subjects, it would be useful for questions to be grouped together in order to receive a joint answer. I would ask you to take this into account.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u7	Thank you, Senator Candiani. Normally this is done. We will therefore check the reasons why the database did not indicate all the questions to be combined or whether, as is sometimes the case, the Government was ready and willing to reply only to some questions and not to others. Both cases can occur: we will see which one has actually occurred.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u8	The next item is questions and questions. The first questions will be questions 3-00775 and 3-02037 on the reorganization of post offices. The representative of the Government may answer these questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u9	Madam President, I will reply jointly to questions 3-00775, first signed by Senator Albano, and 3-02037, signed by Senator Bellot, dealing with a similar subject. I would point out that the postal sector, at national and Community level, has been affected in recent years by profound changes, which have concerned the regulatory environment and, in particular, the transition of regulatory and supervisory functions from this Ministry to the Authority for Communications Guarantees, as a result of Law No 214 of 2011. There have also been significant changes in competition and changing user needs towards a significant differentiation in the supply of services. In this context, the provision of universal service presents problems related to particular demographic and territorial conditions, characterised by large areas of difficult accessibility and low population density. AGCOM, in the exercise of its supervisory powers, carries out an evaluation of the plan for the rationalisation of the management of post offices, in order to verify compliance with the criteria for the distribution of points of access to the postal network referred to in the Ministerial Decree of 7 October 2008, further supplemented by Resolution 342/14/CONS adopted by the same Authority. Having said that, I would point out that following the presentation of the last rationalization plan, the Ministry has intervened on several occasions, despite having lost its regulatory and supervisory functions, so that every intervention of the Poste Italiane company was preceded by a phase of effective comparison with the Regions and local authorities. This activity has resulted in an effective modification of the plan of the Poste Italiane company which has been based on agreements made in different territories with representatives of local authorities and regions, as well as on several occasions recognized and appreciated by the latter. I would add, moreover, that with the definition of the new program contract between the Ministry of Economic Development and Poste Italiane for the years 2016-2019, undersigned on 15 December last, significant innovations have been introduced. Article 2 provided that Italian Post Office should provide adequate information on the interventions, including by using the possibilities offered by IT and digital technologies in the provision of postal services, to the local authority concerned. With the new contract, the Ministry of Economic Development is granted the possibility to promote, before the implementation of the planned interventions, a comparison between the representative bodies of the entities concerned and the company Poste Italiane. The new approach is based, in fact, on the assumption that the capillarity of the presence of Poste Italiane society should not be considered more a burden or a burden but a strategic asset, a very high value from an industrial point of view: therefore, any closure, however justified and within the rules of universal service, would impoverish an asset of society. In particular, in article 5, paragraph 5, of the program contract, for the first time the company Poste Italiane - also taking into account the pursuit of objectives of social and economic cohesion - has undertaken to seek and evaluate, as a matter of priority, any possibility of overall strengthening the services, also through agreements with the regions and the local authorities, following the indication of the Ministry according to which the hypothesis of intervention in reduction must be considered as extreme ratio after having considered alternative possibilities. Poste Italiane, in the logic of strengthening and improving the efficiency of services, will also have to evaluate the cost-income ratio not on the basis of the single post office but in a wider territorial area up to a scale also regional. Finally, in the new contract, the Poste Italiane company will have to assess, first and foremost, the decision to remodulate and rationalise, initiatives proposed by local authorities and institutions that can increase the profitability of the postal offices network in a territorial context. These proposals will have to be made on a regular basis by 30 September each year. For the year 2015, this deadline is postponed until 31 March 2016. The company is required to forward the plan to the Authority by 1 July 2016. In essence, with the new contract program also the Government reasons in terms of industrial policy, no longer only in terms of social value, and the society Poste Italiane is invited to value its network in line with what communicated on the occasion of the recent quotation on the stock exchange. For the sake of completeness of information it is represented that the Authority for the guarantees in the communications has assured that it will continue in the supervisory activity ensuring to verify the legitimacy, from the point of view of the consistency with the current legislation, of the closings or the hourly remodulations of the post offices contained in the plan communicated from Poste Italiane SpA, including the eventual participations in the territories recalled in the acts under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u12	Mr Albano (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Gentile for his reply, even though the question is dated 2014; it has therefore been two years. However, I would like to point out that the postal services provided by points located in the small centres of Liguria, which are the subject of my question, constitute a fundamental garrison if we want these small centres to continue to be inhabited. Today they serve mainly the elderly population who have great difficulty in moving because the Ligurian orographic situation is a peculiarity of which to take absolutely account for any rationalization plan. They are, together with the school and the barracks of the carabinieri, those garrisons on the territory that make it livable. Also in Liguria we have witnessed the consequences of the depopulation of the small centres that involve a minor, if not a failure, care of the territory because of the reduction of the agricultural activity in the hinterland, with disastrous consequences. In short, closing a post office does not mean simply providing one less service, but it is one of the concauses that can produce a chain reaction that leads to uninhabiting some places that, with so much effort, have been tried to revive through new forms of tourism and not mass. This problem of cutting off post offices and services has been affecting small centres for years. Every year he shows up. I mean, it's a cut. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Albano, we don't complain. Better late than never, otherwise we discourage the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u15	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Madam President, I could say that the same is true of my question (in fact, there are two questions: one written answer and one oral answer): the first dates back to 10 February 2015 and today it is 11 February, so we are going in that direction; in the meantime the post offices have continued to pursue the rationalization plan. It is clear that there is no particular focus on a priority service which must be guaranteed and which also serves the maintenance of small municipalities. Currently there are about 46 percent of all municipalities under 5,000 inhabitants and about 80 percent are municipalities in the mountainous area. They absolutely need more services and aid not only for the type of territory, which is costly from the structural point of view, of road and of access to these more impervious areas and with little population, but also for the age of the people who remain in the garrison of the mountain. Unfortunately, we are seeing more and more young people flee. It is true that there are, under the programme contract, new services, but they relate to new technologies, innovation and coverage through wi - fi that in many areas - I think you agree, Mr Undersecretary - are not at all usable because of the age and the effort to bring these people closer together who, at times, do not even have the economic resources to do so. More like that. A great work has also been done to persuade the elderly to bring their savings to post offices. In the tradition and mentality of the elder the post office is the safest point, the heart of a country and a small reality. This result has been encouraged first and then these people no longer have a reference subject with which to interrogate for security, but an ATM, which they often hardly use, even for the difficulty that there is in reaching the door. I think this was also absolutely wrong and incorrect. We had tabled an agenda in this regard, which was adopted in April 2015. We therefore ask that it be further supported and the further request is that we go in the direction of a concrete confrontation with the mayors, the administrators, the first garrison of the territory. I believe that this must be done not in the annual rationalization plan, but in the longer term. Closed doors and garrisons or rationalising opening hours leads in fact to enormous inconveniences. Let us not forget that, in addition to the citizens who are fully entitled to it, account must be taken of the tourist influx that mountain areas would like to encourage, in my areas in particular. We remember that Belluno is part of those entirely mountain Provinces, that the Delrio law recognizes as Provinces with particular difficulties, that is, with its own specificity - which means that there are actually difficulties and limits - and consequently I believe that it is worth evaluating that enormous potential of the territory in its beauty, as well as considering the difficulty to reach it. It is obvious that for tourism, having closed doors, for example in the summer months, in many tourist areas has led to difficulties in the usability of the services that the post office offers. In the light of what has been said, I do not find that there is a feedback in what is the comparison of territory, and I therefore hope that we will go in this direction, comforted also by an intervention of the companies Poste Italiane, with whose direction I have interloquito and from which I have been given the same answers and indications given at this time by the Undersecretary. So what we have achieved is absolutely not enough, but much more confrontation has to be done.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u16	There follows the question 2-00169, about the fate of some terrorists, Italian and foreign, arrested between 1976 and 1980. I call Senator Di Biagio to illustrate this interrogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u17	Madam President, kindly Undersecretary, today's questioning wants to clarify some aspects potentially related to the massacre in Bologna. Allow me to thank former colleague Enzo Raisi of Bologna, who has contributed a great deal, with his constant activity of investigation, not only for the purposes of this questioning but more generally, to shed light on such a dramatic story for our country, as well as the many magistrates who feel the duty to clarify. Let us therefore enter into the substance of the facts. On 11 October 1976, three militants of the Palestinian organization called "Black June" attacked the Syrian embassy in Rome, wounding an official's legs. On 6 November, these Palestinian militiamen, who had handed themselves over to the Italian authorities a few hours after the attack, were tried in a very direct and sentenced to fifteen years of imprisonment. In the next day's edition, the newspaper "La Stampa" writes that it is easy to assume (at least this happened in similar and previous episodes) that a few months from here will be granted the grace to the three condemned with relative expulsion from the Italian territory; and so in fact happens. On November 25 of the same year, the newspaper reports a report that could in some respects be related to the events described above. In the previous days, in Arnhem, Holland, the arrest of two Italian terrorists of extreme left, Franco Secci and Giovanni Paba, both natives of Aritzo in the province of Nuoro, who were traveling on a train from the German Federal Republic and headed to the train station of Amsterdam. The Sardinian extremists are found in possession of weapons, explosives, and a list of names of Italian and Palestinian terrorists detained in our country's prisons, as well as other extremely confidential documents. Following the arrest, Secci and Paba are extradited, tried and sentenced in Italy for crimes related to the facts. Finally, in March 1980, three Italian far-left terrorists were arrested in Toulon, France, as part of a large police operation against an international non-versive network. One of them, the Sardinian Franco Pinna, is found in possession of an identity document in the name of Franco Secci, one of the two Sardinian extremists of the events of Arnhem. From these backgrounds there is, therefore, a complex scenario with contours that cannot always be deciphered. While there are clearly links between the various events, on the one hand there is no complete understanding of the dynamics and potential objectives. On August 2, 1980, a date sadly known, also because associated with an event that adds to the pain the lack of definitive justice, among the rubble of the massacre of Bologna are found a suitcase and a passport belonging to a professor named Salvatore Muggironi, who, after having saved himself from the attack, returns to Sardinia without denouncing the loss of his objects and documents. Eleven days after the massacre, the professor will justify himself encamping a series of reasons that, however, find no response from the police. But the most curious fact is that Professor Muggironi would be, at the time of the events, the boyfriend of the sister of one of the Sardinian extremists arrested in Holland; a couple therefore most likely afferent to the same extremist group. On 19 August, seventeen days after the massacre, the command of the police station in Aritzo communicated to the police unit in Bologna the return of the passport, highlighting at the same time the suspicion that the Muggironi could belong to the area of the extra-parliamentary left. On October 10, 1980, the company of the Carabinieri of Sorgono, in the Province of Nuoro, sent an information on the account of Muggironi to the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Bologna, competent for the investigation of the massacre and, as far as it is competent, also to the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Oristano. This information gave an act of an alleged anonymous phone call, received by the brigade Oreste Celestino on October 7th, then three days before, with which Muggironi had been attributed a not better specified involvement in the explosion at the railway station of Bologna; this could find a match in the discovery of his passport at the site of the massacre. The aforementioned brigade Celestino attached to the information a series of personal files from which was the affiliation of the Muggironi to an extra-parliamentary group operating in Barbagia, where they also militated two people already convicted for serious crimes. These two people were called Giovanni Paba and Franco Secci. From the personal records of Giovanni Paba and Franco Secci it appears that they would be arrested in Holland, because they were found, on board a train to the train station in Amsterdam, in possession of weapons, explosives and sheets containing the names of prisoners of the Red Brigades, as well as references to Palestinian terrorist groups. I therefore ask the Government, with this interrogation, what was the actual date as well as how and why the three Palestinian terrorists responsible for the assault on the Syrian embassy were released and abandoned our country. Above all, I ask whether the names of the three Palestinian terrorists appear on the list of Italian and Middle Eastern political prisoners seized in the Netherlands by Giovanni Paba and Franco Secci. I would also ask if Paba and Secci, at the time of their arrest in the Netherlands, were engaged in a logistical transport of weapons and explosives or if they were in the process of carrying out an attack at a railway station or elsewhere. Finally, I ask whether it appears that the false identity used by the terrorist Franco Pinna, at the time of his arrest in France in 1980, is to be traced back to Franco Secci, who was arrested in the Netherlands in 1976. It will be understood how the answers to these questions can at least help to fill some gaps and clarify some remaining dark sides, relating to a dramatic story - as I said - for the history of our country, for which the families of the victims still expect a definitive truth and free from ideological conditionings and prejudices. I believe it is necessary to look for those responsible for the massacre through an approach that is only that of truth. I don't have any interest in and I don't like the chorus and conspiracy of whatever part they are. Anyone who stains himself with such nefariousness, robbed of any ideological cover, is just a sleazy criminal who must be prosecuted and condemned.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u18	The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question. We very much thank the State Secretary for Health, Dr. De Filippo, for his willingness to replace his colleague of the Interior, even if, given the matter of this and the subsequent question, we would actually welcome, as Senate, the presence of the Deputy Minister of the Interior or of one of the Subsecretaries in the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with the question on the agenda, Senator Di Biagio asks for clarification on the release and removal from the national territory of the three militants of the Palestinian organisation called "Black June," who broke into the Syrian embassy in Rome on 11 September 1976. In addition, he recalls the arrest of three Italian terrorists who took place abroad in two different circumstances dating back to 1976 and 1980, assuming a link between Palestinian terrorism and home-grown terrorism from Brigati and NAP. With reference to the first point touched on in the trade union act, I refer that the three terrorists of the organization "Jugno Nero", all known with one or more aliases, were sentenced, on November 6, 1976, by the Court of Assizes of Rome to fifteen years of imprisonment for the crimes of attempted murder, kidnapping of person, introduction into the national territory, detention and transport of weapons and munitions of war. The sentence was then reduced by the court of appeal of Rome to eight years and four months imprisonment. They were released on December 22, 1981, on the basis of a measure by the General Prosecutor of the Republic of Rome implementing the decree of the President of the Republic No 744 of 1981 on amnesty and indult. They were subsequently expelled from the national territory. With regard to the events reported in the questioning, I represent that indeed on 20 November 1976 Mr Giovanni Paba and Mr Franco Secci were arrested by the Dutch border police while they were on board a train that was taking them from Federal Germany to Amsterdam. The two were found in possession of weapons, ammunition and explosives, as well as various documents, including: a list of 35 subjects belonging to the Red Brigades and other organizations of subversive matrix; some writings containing the reference to three Arab names almost coinciding with the aliases of the three aforementioned terrorists of Black Jun; a note concerning the kilometers distances between the airport of Amsterdam and other air ports, this circumstance making suspect that the two were preparing an air hijack. The proximity of Paba and Secci to terrorist environments was also confirmed by the results of the home search carried out on 21 November 1976 at their homes. Therefore, the request for extradition was forwarded to the Dutch judicial authority for offences involving participation in armed groups, as well as those of detention and illegal port of weapons of war and common weapons of gunfire. In June 1977, the Dutch Secretary of State for Justice refused extradition for the associative case and admitted it for the other crimes. The court of Oristano, therefore, exercised the prosecution exclusively for the port and the detention of weapons and explosives, condemning Mr. Paba and Mr. Secci, with a sentence of January 1978, to the sentence of three years of imprisonment and 500,000 lire of fine. As for the well-known fugitive brigadeist Franco Pinna, I represent first that he was arrested in Toulon, France, on 28 March 1980, following investigations into an armed robbery carried out together with two other Italian terrorists and another criminal. After the arrest, the French police searched the house where the Pinna lived, finding weapons with abraded freshman and numerous forged Italian identity documents, including an identity card registered to Franco Secci, born in Cagliari on January 13, 1951, was stolen in white at the Municipality of Lurano in Provincia di Bergamo. In this regard, it should be noted that the personal data of the forged identity card did not correspond to those of Franco Secci who was arrested in the Netherlands in 1976, whose birthplace is Aritzo, in the Province of Nuoro, and whose date of birth is 30 May 1953. Apart from that, however, it is evident that at the time no elements emerged such as to trace the false identity used by Franco Pinna to the Franco Secci mentioned above. For the sake of completeness, I would like to inform you that the French authorities have never granted the extradition of Mr Pinna, who was released on 5 October 1981 and is still a fugitive.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u22	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I would like to thank the Secretary for his reply and also for his willingness. My intention with the questioning of the agenda was and is only to provide useful insights into the truth. Allow me to add the wish that, in our country, we stop setting up committees of inquiry of a varied and general nature, in which there are reservations, poor politics, inadequate institutions, diverted services and basically a will not to tell things as they are. On the contrary, I hope that the will to seek the truth always prevails in respect of all those who, in episodes like that of the massacre of Bologna, have lost their lives and that of their loved ones.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u23	Following is the question 3-02330, on the prohibition to go to the stadium of Florence for fans of Frosinone Calcio on the occasion of the match of 1 November 2015. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u24	(IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the management of public order and security at sporting events is ensured by a comprehensive system based at central level on the National Observatory on Sports Events, which is intended to promote maximum interaction between all public and private actors who are required to implement organisational measures and to prevent and combat violence. Among the many tasks of the body there is also the attribution of the level of risk of the sporting event, game by game. When the event is considered at particular risk, the analysis committee for the safety of sporting events comes into play, an inter- and inter-disciplinary assembly that provides the necessary information and directives to the provincial authorities of public security, that is to say to the prefects and quaestors, who are the real terminals of the system on the territory. They are responsible for the adoption of measures and measures to prevent accidents on the management of the event, with the exception of some of the most important cases, for which the Minister of the Interior is directly called into question. It is a proven system that has produced appreciable results in terms of reducing clashes and injuries. The general device I have just described was also activated at the Fiorentina-Frosinone football match on 1 November, on which the question is on the agenda. In this regard, Senator Scalia expresses doubts about the measure with which the prefect of Florence has ordered the prohibition of the sale of tickets of the meeting to residents in Lazio, complaining that it would damage the image of the team and of all the fans of Frosinone Calcio for events attributable to a very limited number of fans. In order to argue the legitimacy and appropriateness of this act, I believe it is necessary to illustrate the disruptions of public order and security that took place in Rome on 4 October last after the Lazio-Frosinone match, which - as the questioner said - constituted the presupposition of the decision taken by the prefect of Florence. At the end of the meeting, about 800 Ciociari fans flocked to Termini station for the return journey. Once inside the station, the fans, taking advantage of the cast and before police personnel in public order could deploy, rushed towards the accesses of the so-called reserved area of the binary area, where only holders of the ticket can access. In doing so, they took themselves to the track where the departure of the regional train to Frosinone was expected, evading the necessary controls. Trenitalia has, therefore, ordered the verification of the possession of the ticket of travel vis-à-vis all passengers. At this juncture, some ultras assaulted and threatened the train leader who was caught by illness, to the point that it became necessary to request the intervention of an ambulance. At the end of the checks, the convoy, duly escorted by police personnel, was authorised to leave, which, due to the above mentioned circumstances, and the operation of the emergency brake by the same fans, took place with considerable delay. It is clear from what has been said that the intemperances of almost all of the 800 hurried supporters have led to an undoubted situation of potential danger and disturbance of the order and public safety, as well as considerable inconveniences to the railway circulation. All this has been amplified by the scenario in which the facts took place, the Termini station, railway junction characterized also on public holidays by a large influx of travellers. Therefore, the prefect of Florence, considering the indications given by the Committee of Analysis on Sports Events and the high risk index assigned by the National Observatory on the same events, adopted, on the proposal of the quaestor, the injunction of the transfer of the fans resident in the Lazio Region on the occasion of the Fiorentina-Frosinone match of 1 November, with simultaneous suspension of the program of fidelization of Frosinone Calcio. This happened also in the light of the high probability that many Ciaciari fans would move using the train, with the consequent concrete risk that they could repeat at the station of Florence the same events that took place in that of Roma Termini. As for the second question put by the questioner, I would stress that the investigative activity carried out also through the vision of the images of the video surveillance systems has not, up to this moment, allowed the attribution of individual responsibilities for the facts of 4 October.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u27	SCALIA (PD). Madam President, thank you to the Undersecretary. The question was obviously intended to provoke a rethinking and a revocation by the prefect of the interdictive measure which, in the light at least of the facts as reported in the press, seemed frankly excessive to me. I take note of the reconstruction that today provides the Government, which does not limit the responsibilities to few exagitated, but outlines an attitude of the entire Frosinone Calcio fans, I imagine determined by external factors (the need to take the train and go all together to the station). I don't know the reason. But, if the fact was determined by an unacceptable attitude of the entire fan company, it is clear that the measure taken was justified. The following facts have shown that Frosinone's fans are not excited and do not risk travel. That story is, therefore, limited. There remains an invitation to the Government, in the offices that you have just mentioned (the National Observatory for Sports Events), to consider carefully whether the facts that are reported are ascribable to individuals or to a few warriors and not to extend them to an entire fanship, thus harming, in the end, the image of a city. In fact, the image that emerged, because of the measure taken, is of a violent fan - and therefore of a city - that would have caused a serious risk if it had been allowed to enter the stadium of Florence in the next game.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u28	Following is the question 3-02509, on the guarantee of safety and legality in the territory of Trapani. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Senator Orrù, together with other senators, in pointing out the rise of the theft and robbery that would have been going on for over a year in Trapani and in the historic centre of Erice (so-called Erice peak), calls for the adoption of initiatives aimed at strengthening the control and control of the territory. I represent in advance that the hypothesis of an increase in typically predatory crimes finds only partial comfort in the statistical data available to the Ministry of the Interior. And in fact, comparing the numbers of 2015 with those of the previous year it emerges that in the city capital thefts in the shops and the robberies in the home have increased, while the other types of robberies and thefts are in slight decrease. At Erice peak there were 10 thefts in the house in front of the 6 thefts of 2014. In addition, there was a robbery in the house, while in 2014 they had not verified it. Finally, the shops have not been robbed or robbed. With regard to the two night thefts mentioned in the question, which occurred in January of this year to the detriment of the post office of Erice peak and a commercial exercise in the center of the city, I inform that the police still have a targeted investigative activity covered obviously by secret investigation. On a more general level, I assure you that the prevention and the fight against crime in the two situations under consideration are the subject of constant attention by provincial public security authorities and police forces. In order to intercept every minimum signal of risk for the safety of citizens, the general prevention services are from time to time remodulated and intensified on the basis of the criticalities found, through the preparation of plans and strategies that always guarantee an adequate presence of police operators in the territory. In this regard, I represent that since 2014 the entire territory of Trapani - in particular the capital - is periodically affected by extraordinary operations of control, implemented according to the criteria of integrated control, with significant increase of the road checks regarding both the people (about 9 percent more in 2015 compared to 2014), and of the vehicles circulating (about 14 percent more in 2015 compared to 2014). This widespread activity allowed the State Police to arrest 136 people in 2015, all for crimes against the assets, against the 124 people arrested in 2014. Of those foretold, 40 were arrested in flagrant crime, finding that the perpetrators had mainly committed the acts of crime right in the historic center of Trapani. In this context, also the provincial command of the carabinieri has intensified in 2015 the services of contrast of the phenomenon of thefts and the robberies. In this context, some 140 persons were identified as responsible for various criminal events. With particular reference to Erice, I would like to point out that, precisely as a result of recent episodes of crime that have occurred there and in view of the social alarm that resulted from it, last 22 January it was decided, in the technical meeting of coordination held at the Prefecture of Trapani, a strengthening of the activities of general prevention in Erice peak through passages of the crews of the police in addition to the services already carried out by the Arma dei Carabinieri, territorially competent with a station of the same name that has 6 other military. On the other hand, it should be pointed out that thefts, especially those at the expense of commercial operations, take place mostly at night and therefore the repressive action of the police forces is less effective than would happen if the exercises were instead more equipped with passive defense measures and video surveillance systems. On the subject the prefect has in fact asked the main associations of category - Confcommercio, Confesercenti and Federtabaccai - to carry out an adequate work of awareness of the members so that they equip their own exercises of the aforementioned devices to connect with the operating rooms of the police forces. On the occasion of the Day of legality, held last November, promoted precisely by the Confcommercio of Trapani, the president of the said association - interpreting the will of the commercial operators - has manifested the willingness to the collaboration of the enterprises in the action of control of the territory in a participated vision of the security. Coming to the request of the honourable interrogators to strengthen the garrison of the Forces of the order at provincial level, I recall that the device deployed there consists of 519 members of the operational roles of the State Police, 743 soldiers of the Arm of the Carabinieri and 436 members of the Guard of finance. The total budget therefore amounts to 1,698 units and is almost in line with organic forecasts. It is difficult at this stage to provide additional staff assignments, given the priority attention that we are having to give to the extraordinary needs of the offices and competent commands on the places of worship involved in the Jubilee of Mercy. Any assignments to the security equipment of Trapani can be evaluated at the time of future admissions of personnel, compatible with the resources available and the needs of the police offices at national level. I would add, on the other hand, that, in occasion of the extraordinary services of control of the territory, the police stationed in the territory are integrated with the use of rates of the regional departments crime prevention of the State Police and the operating companies of the Arm of the Carabinieri. With regard to the creation of nocturnal rounds made up of citizens intending to guard the territory, it appears that the initiative took place in Erice peak. In it are engaged 38 people, not constituted in association, who have constituted a group on WhatsApp and, on board cars, they walk the streets of the medieval village in the night hours, warning the Forces of the order in case of necessity, through the line 112. In the light of the current regulatory framework, this autonomous, spontaneous initiative turns out praeter legem, missing, on the one hand, the formal institution and inclusion in the appropriate prefectual list of an association or committee aimed at the observation and reporting of events detrimental to public safety, on the other, the conventional involvement of the Municipality of Erice. Despite not emerging specific profiles of illice, the initiative is subject to careful monitoring, also in relation to its potential repercussions on order and public security in the territory concerned.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u32	ORRU' (PD). Mr Sfafe Secretary, thank you for your helpfulness, as this is not the subject of the question which falls within your competence. I would also like to thank you for the promptness of your reply, as the question dates back just a few days ago. Allow me, however, to make two points. The same data were also to me, because a few days earlier the Minister of the Interior had been to Palermo. She, however, also gives me reason for the increase in theft as regards commercial activities in Trapani. Trapani and Erice are two municipalities very close, but with a somewhat different type of delinquency. As far as Trapani is concerned, thefts continue in the shops, also during daytime hours. A few days ago the theft in an open supermarket dates back. As true as it may be - and I confirm this - the commitment not only of the prefect, but also of the Forces of Order, it is obvious that the measures in terms of personnel are insufficient although compared to the staff of the other cities are in the average. Of course, if these incidents continue to occur, it is probably necessary to strengthen the Forces of Order at this stage. As far as Erice peaks are concerned, thefts are in smaller numbers because, as has been learned later, some residents have not filed a complaint, partly because it was mostly robberies in private homes, as well as to the detriment of commercial businesses. At the same time, the camera system was started and also the mayor of Erice and the administration provided. But the reality is that, being the peak of a municipality, inhabited in the winter period by very few inhabitants, one does not have the perception of safety, also because there is a barracks that, in fact, is only guarded in the morning. So the demand continues to be to be able to increase the staff because the city rounds, as you have pointed out, and as we have learned from the press as well as from the citizens, are born precisely from the need to feel safe. I fully agree with what you have said. Clearly that is a free initiative, not being these private constituted in association, but this makes us understand the measure of the perception of security in those municipalities.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u33	An awareness campaign for the fight against AIDS is followed by questioning 2-00334. I call the Senator Ricchiuti, to illustrate this interrogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u34	Madam President, on 1 December 2015, the World Health Organisation and the European Centre for Disease Control released on World AIDS Day, the annual report on new HIV infections and cases of AIDS among the population of the European Union, with some very alarming data: in 2014, 4,020 cases of AIDS were diagnosed in the EU countries, with a rate of 0.8 patients per 100,000 people. HIV infections are also increasing due to homosexual intercourse, ranging from 30 percent in 2005 to 42 percent in 2014, while the rate of infection through heterosexual intercourse is 32 percent. The victims of contagion are 11 percent very young, between fifteen and twenty-four years old. In Italy, in 2014, cases of new HIV infection were 3.695 and those of AIDS confirmed were 858. Between 2006 and 2014, HIV-positive people arrived at the AIDS stage, without being aware that they had been infected, increased from 20.5 percent to 71.5 percent. Every year the cases of new infection are between 3,500 and 4,000. The most affected age group is that of men between the ages of twenty-five and twenty-nine. Consider that AIDS is an incurable disease, but thanks to new therapies, with adequate health care and a timely diagnosis, the life expectancy of an HIV positive person is no different from that of a seronegative person. The law n. 135 of 1990 provides, in article 1, paragraph 1, letter a), that the National Commission for the fight against AIDS, at the Ministry of Health, adopts interventions of a polyennial nature regarding the prevention, the information, the research, the epidemiological surveillance and the support of the activity of the volunteer, implemented in the modalities previewed from the action programmed of the National Health Plan regarding the fight against AIDS, and within the limits of the appropriations provided for there. It is therefore asked to know whether the Government intends to take further measures, in the light of the numbers presented by the interrogators, compared to the campaign to raise awareness of the fight against AIDS announced on 1 December 2015 by Minister Lorenzin, to combat the new wave of infection and to stem the numbers of AIDS patients and, in particular, the Government does not believe that a national campaign to promote the use of the test, aimed at young people in particular, should be implemented as a matter of urgency. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u35	The World AIDS Day, held every year on 1 December, is dedicated to increasing awareness of the world AIDS epidemic due to the spread of HIV, which unfortunately continues to be a priority public health problem, at a global level. The Ministry of Health, through the National AIDS Commission and the Advisory Committee of AIDS Associations, which, pursuant to the decree of the President of the Republic of 28 March 2013, n. 44, which regulates the reorganization of the collegial bodies and other bodies operating at the Ministry of Health, have merged into the technical health committee, respectively section "L" and section "M" and continue to operate, in order to maintain constant attention and activities relating to the many aspects of HIV infection and AIDS disease, such as prevention, research, diagnosis, treatment and communication related to this disease, as well as assistance, training, support to associations and the protection of the rights of people with HIV. Each year this Ministry, among other things, plans a communication campaign, integrated according to the general indications formulated by the technical health committee. On the occasion of the World AIDS Day 2015, more than 400 Italian cities started the initiative entitled "Communicipal commitment against AIDS", a great awareness campaign aimed at promoting the communication and prevention actions of the Ministry of Health, to which mayors of many cities have joined. Italy is among the first countries to have responded concretely to requests from the European Union on policies for the early diagnosis of HIV, drawing up a "Consensus Document on the policies of offering and the methods of carrying out the HIV test" which was approved in the State-Regions Conference on 27 July 2011. An updated version of this document was extended at a National Consensus Conference in April 2012. In fact, an address document on access, active offer strategies and how to manage and execute the test for the diagnosis of HIV infection, derived from the evidence that emerged at the 2012 National Conference of Consent, has been prepared. The implementation by the Regions of programmes on the diagnosis of HIV infection was included in 2012 as one of the objectives of the National Health Plan for the allocation - this is the instrument - of quotas bound to the achievement of the objectives themselves. On 22 November 2012 the agreement between the State, Regions and Autonomous Provinces was signed, which identifies the design lines for the use, by the Regions, of the tied resources that I mentioned for the achievement of the objectives of priority and national importance for the year 2012; among these lines also includes the diagnosis of HIV infection. As for the promotion of a national campaign to spread the use of the test, aimed mainly at young people, it is represented that on 2 April 2015 a Memorandum of Understanding was signed between the Ministry of Education, University and Research and the Ministry of Health. The Parties agreed to strengthen interinstitutional cooperation in order to improve, coordinate and facilitate their respective activities by ensuring the integration of interventions for the protection and promotion of the health and psychophysical well-being of children, pupils and students. The two Departments have undertaken to promote, support and develop actions aimed, inter alia, at promoting the active provision of health education initiatives aimed at children and adolescents, including through the involvement of local health services and professionals and families, as well as at supporting the national surveillance system aimed at monitoring certain aspects of the health of children and adolescents, with regard to the main behavioural risk factors and certain anthropometric and nutritional parameters, while respecting the regionalisation of the Health System and school autonomy. In addition, the Ministry of Health will promote collaboration with the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces so that, in the field of local health care (health care, prevention departments, mental health departments and departments for addictions, family counselors up to the involvement of free choice pediatricians), support is provided in the school field for the implementation of health promotion initiatives aimed at all children and adolescents. A joint table with the representatives of the two Dicasteries is working on the application modalities of the aforementioned Protocol of 2 April 2015. Further measures, also in the light of the alarming data that have been disseminated, are being developed and will be evaluated and presented through the National Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u38	RICHIUTI (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr De Filippo for his reply. We all live on our territory, we live in Italy and we can see that, ten or twenty years ago, there was talk of AIDS much more than today. Today most young people do not even know what AIDS is and therefore, while sharing all the initiatives that the Ministry is taking, I believe that is not enough, and the data show this. So again, I urge the government to make a targeted campaign, especially for young people, because today - and I repeat - they do not know AIDS and the infection increases. It is true that we no longer die, but it is also true that we returned to twenty years ago as far as knowledge is concerned. I welcome all the fine initiatives you have listed to me, but I believe that they are insufficient and I insist on the dissemination of the test, which I believe is fundamental, on the whole population, especially for young people.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u39	Following is the question 3-02293, about the presence on the Maximilian Towers of Verona of 40 television repeaters. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u40	Madam President, I am referring to the question by which Senator Montevecchi, together with other fellow senators, asks to know what initiatives the Minister for the Protection of Torricella Massimiliana wants to take. The Compendium, belonging to the State's public property (historical-artistic branch), was handed over in 1962 to the Municipality of Verona for the conduct of studies against weather adversities in collaboration with the National Anti-Magnificent Union, on the basis of the concession of the State Agency, expired in 1978 and subsequently not renewed, in which it was planned not to make internal and external changes to the good as it was burdened by a monumental and country protection enclosure. The Torricella Massimiliana, in fact, is part of a complex of four towers declared in 1998 of important historical-architectonic interest, pursuant to Law No 1089 of 1939, then in force, as a valuable example of fortified architecture. In addition, there is also a large area surrounding the Compendium, which is also subject to the provisions of landscape protection. Due to this restrictive situation, the offices of the Ministry, present on the territory, have consistently carried out the institutional functions of supervision. The same financial administration, in the years to follow, noted the presence of installations for broadcasting on the complex in question and started an exchange of correspondence with the Municipality concessionaire in order to obtain clarifications in this regard, wary the local agency to the return of the good after putting in pristino of the state of the places. In fact, it had been established and reported, precisely by the peripheral bodies of this Ministry, during the inspections carried out jointly with the administrations concerned, the incompatibility of the structures with the principles of protection and conservation of the historical and artistic heritage. However, in May 2000, the continuing misuse of the installation of aerials and radio and television installations was the subject of a complaint to the judicial authority initiating criminal investigations, which ended with the filing. The Ministry denounced the complex situation of abuse to the prosecutor of the Republic also in 2004 and the competent regional direction laid down the necessary requirements for the initiation of the procedures of re-pristino. Recently, in order to resolve the issue, the Superintendence attended several meetings convened by the State Agency, involving the municipal administration and also the officials of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and the Veneto Region, in order to achieve the concrete and definitive resolution of the abusive situation. In that forum, in particular, the Agency itself was invited to activate, within the short term, the most appropriate actions for the reordering of the monumental context and forward any useful documentation, in order to have an updated picture of the situation and to be able to assess in an appropriate way the conditions of restoration of the places. Given the complex situation, the Superintendence is monitoring the developments of the case and, in the light of the last communication sent to the State Agency, considers that, in order to arrive at a definitive solution of the matter, every useful action must be implemented by this Ministry, even before to the multitude of the owners and/or users of the abusive installations, vis-à-vis the respective bodies owner and manager of the property, who have at their disposal appropriate legal, civilistic, as well as administrative instruments, in order to reach the complete reorganization of the monumental complex, in order to return the good to the enjoyment of the community. As regards the recovery of the compensation for the use of the state property summary, the financial administration has reported that, in the absence of the return of the site by the municipality because of the inertia of the same in providing for the liberation of the area from the abusive installations, the State Property Agency has agreed - also with the judicial authorities - the path to be taken in order to recover the compensation due for the misuse. The Agency has acquired from the AGSM (local operator of the electricity supply service) the list of active and disused electricity users on 2 February 2010, in order to identify the users who have succeeded over time, in respect of whom the collection procedures for the recovery of compensation due for the illegal occupation of the State's website have been activated, after a favourable opinion of the Court of First Instance. To date, for the reorganization of the use of the area, continues the comparison with the various administrations involved in various ways (Comune di Verona, financial administration, Ministry of Economic Development, Department of Communications, Territorial Inspection of the Veneto) and, with regard to the Ministry of Cultural Heritage, ensures the development of its institutional role of control and guidance regarding the times and methods of carrying out the interventions of restoration on the complex.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u43	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, I am satisfied with the answer received, albeit with a small final nail. I hope that the sums that will be recovered as a result of the collection of compensation will be reused - so MIBACT will be promoted to the Ministry of Economy and Finance for this purpose - in the subsequent recovery and exploitation of that area, and will not therefore remain in a chapter of the MEF without this precise destination.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u44	Following is the question 3-02406, on the situation of the abbey of San Salvatore in Settimo, in the province of Florence. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u45	Senator Montevecchi's question gives me the opportunity to speak again, here and a few months later, about the abbey of Saints Saviour and Lorenzo in Settimo. I hope that I recognize the fact that I am not avoiding the comparison that, as far as I am concerned, I support with the awareness that I have never turned my attention to the problem on which - as the Senator points out - there is a resolution of the 7th Senate Commission of 30 June 2014, which commits the Government in this regard. The issue is closely monitored by my offices, which are constantly confronted with the superintendences on the territory and with the regional offices. As reported during the session of 20 May last, the first meeting of the interinstitutional table took place in June 2014 at the regional direction of Tuscany, and in April 2015 a meeting was held at the Tuscany Region, aimed at signing the protocol of understanding between the Tuscany Region, the Municipality of Scandicci and the High School of the judiciary, also in the presence of the superintendent beautiful arts and landscape of Florence, Pistoia and Prato, the regional secretary of the Ministry, the Tuscany Region, the president of the School of the judiciary and the Municipality of Scandicci. On the occasion the protocol of understanding has not been undersigned, as the Tuscany Region - as you know - in reaffirming the interest of the President of the Region so that the intention to acquire the portion of private property would go well, however it has considered opportune to proceed to some preliminary verifications. The Ministry's strong interest in the successful outcome of the operation was highlighted there, also in view of the fact that in this way the good would become public, with a compatible use destination and accessible from a perspective of public interest. It has also been confirmed what has been reported by the Municipality of Scandicci, that is that this beautiful property, with regard to the portion of private property, is currently without a use destination and for many years the situation is frozen. The meeting ended with the agreement that the Tuscany Region would make known the results of its reflections. Since there have been no further updates to date, I personally convened the interinstitutional table again on 14 March, at 11.30 a.m., at the headquarters of the regional secretariat for Tuscany in Florence. I will be happy to return to this House or to the Commission to report on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u48	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, the story of the abbey of Settimo San Salvatore has colored over time. We are now talking about a Commission resolution adopted in 2014. Then there was in June 2014, a first convocation of the interinstitutional technical table in which I participated, perhaps as rapporteur for the assigned affair that had produced the resolution that committed the government to cover certain stages. I am surprised that, when I asked about this interinstitutional table, which after that date (June 2014) had no longer met, I was told that it was impossible to reunite this table, because a general reform of the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities was under way, which had paralysed the structure itself. I am pleased that in April 2015 this table met and that I did not have the confidence of this (just for institutional grace, neither for duty nor for obligation). That said, in the meantime, however, the mayor of Scandicci was, rightly, at this point - to tell the four winds what the unofficial results of that table were. In fact, it was thoughtful to say that the part still in the hands of those deprived of the ward, if recovered, would be destined to the seat of the school of the judiciary. I would like to remind the Undersecretary and also the Mayor of Scandicci - whom I mentioned personally in an interview - that in reality, among the commitments that the Government had signed, there was also the destination of this building recovered for the benefit of the public. Now, no one is opposed to providing a guesthouse for the students of the High School of the judiciary, which is certainly a noble goal; but it is clear and irrefutable that, when it comes to destination for the benefit of the public, there is talk of something else. Other hypotheses (e.g. the headquarters of the Opificio delle Pietre o di altre destina) were also advanced for the participation and life of this ward by young people and local citizenship. It doesn't seem to me that the entire part of the property is allocated to the aforementioned guesthouse as one of the commitments entered into by the government. I now expect there to be positive results from this interinstitutional table of 14 March 2016 - so I understand - and I hope to be updated promptly, always not out of obligation, but for the institutional grace that should be given to those who followed this assigned affair, has been rapporteur and is passionately interested in the events of this good of our architectural heritage. Finally, I would like to make a final comment on the economic problems, because this question is only one of a whole series that I have presented and to which - I admit - the Undersecretary Borletti Dell'Acqua has never escaped to answer and has always been present, and I want to give it credit. Well, the problem seemed economical. Then I suggest that in July 2014 a decree-law, the so-called art bonus, was approved, which provides in Article 7 the strategic plan "great projects cultural assets," with the allocation for 2016 of 50,000 million euros. Since at the time of the estimates it would have been enough just over 1 million euros to buy the part still in the hands of the private ones, I wonder if at this point the undersecretary Borletti Dell'Acqua and the minister Franceschini cannot be made ambassadors to the Ministry of Economy and Finance and see, in the light of the aforementioned article and of the above plan, if finally you can approve the allocation of about 1 million euros to buy the ward and start a serious reasoning for a plan of his recovery and valorization. I look forward to the outcome of the interinstitutional table and I do not give up.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u49	Following is the question 3-01624, on the decision to kill the deers in the pine forest of Classe, in the province of Ravenna. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u50	Madam President, with regard to this question, which is also taken into account in the information acquired by the Province of Ravenna, it is as follows: The issue was monitored by the Ministry and constantly followed by ISPRA, which issued several technical opinions to the Province. It is recalled, in advance, that the deer is huntable species within the meaning of Article 18 (1) (c) of Law No 157 of 1992. With regard to the management of this species, the general technical indications developed by ISPRA are recalled. The species is not autochthonous for Italy, therefore the ISPRA does not recommend its diffusion on the national territory, imprinting the conservation only of the historical nuclei, with the maintenance of density compatible with the environments and the systematic removal of the individuals in dispersion and of the small isolated nuclei and those of recent formation, often originated from escapes from fences or abusive introductions. In the same direction also converge the objectives of management of the Emilia Romagna Region and the Province of Ravenna. The Emilia Romagna Region, in fact, with Regulation No. 1 of 2008, defining the regional management objectives for the deer and the provincial planning tools, provides for the pine forest Class the removal of animals for the containment of the stocks. The Province of Ravenna proposed in 2013 a plan that covered the venatory collection of the deer in the areas falling within the Territorial Hunting Area Ravenna 2 (ATC RA2) adjacent to cultivated land, by means of selection hunting to remove the present nucleus, consistent with the reference legislation. This plan received the positive opinion of ISPRA. Given the lack of implementation of the aforementioned plan, in 2014 the Province of Ravenna proposed a partial modification. On the one hand, the need for the picking in selection in the areas falling within the territorial area of hunting Ravenna 2 adjacent to the Class pine forest and affected by agricultural crops has been reiterated and, on the other hand, a management alternative has been proposed to remove the nucleus of deers of this area without resorting to the killing (collection plan 2014-2015). The amendment was submitted to ISPRA which, however, strongly advised against the release of deer, possibly captured by the areas under consideration, due to the risk of significant impacts on their biodiversity, and showed that the transfer of deer caught in the enclosure was contrary to the regional legislation (Region Emilia Romagna, resolution no. 1519 of 28 July 2003) that does not allow the breeding of wildlife that was not born in captivity. In addition, there is a high risk of accidental escape with regard to the housing in the fence, as demonstrated by the numerous cases in Italy and abroad. It is known, in fact, how the same origin of the deer population of the Class pine forest is to be put in relation to a escape from the fence. Subsequently, the Province, with resolution of November 12, 2014, within the framework of the hunting fauna plan, approved the program of management of the deer of the Class pine forest and the 2014-2015 draw plan. The resolution adopted by the Province of Ravenna was the subject of litigation. It was, in fact, challenged before the TAR Emilia-Romagna, section of Bologna, with appeal promoted by Earth and other animalist associations aimed at obtaining the annulment of the resolution for vices of legitimacy deriving from violations of the regional regulation n. 1 of 2008. The precautionary phase before the TAR ended with a collegial order rejecting the applicants' application. This order, moreover, was subsequently challenged before the Council of State, which ordered the rejection of the appeal. As for the reasons why the Province of Ravenna did not accept Mrs. Schonwald's offer to take care of the deer, it is noted that the current legislation provides for the prohibition of holding, buying and selling specimens of wild fauna caught in nature. In any case, as far as the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea is aware, the Province's work concerning the deers present in the Class pine forest is aimed at resolving the problems related to the complex management of fauna, respecting the protection of fauna and biodiversity and in accordance with national and Community legislation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u53	Mr Repetti (AL-A). Madam President, I do not intend to be repetitive, but this question was tabled a year ago, although I noticed that someone who preceded mine was even more dated. However, given the nature and subject matter of the question, which referred to a decision to cut down the deers of the Class pine forest, in the province of Ravenna, the answer seemed urgent to me. In fact, today I would wonder if this question still makes sense and if any deer is still alive, since I believe it was given follow-up to the resolution of the Province. The answer given seems to me, however, full of contradictions. I would like to remind you that Article 19 of Law 157 of 1992, quoted earlier, provides for ecological methods to be applied for the containment of wild animals and, therefore, huntable animals. Only after the failure of such attempts can they be considered to be felled. Moreover, in the extreme hypothesis of the killing, the same law certainly does not provide that it is the hunters to carry out such operations, while in the resolution of the Province of Ravenna was previewed just this. In fact, it is argued in this act that the decision on the slaughter would have been necessary and inevitable after the setting up of barriers and fences had not been sufficient to eliminate the danger to public security. We all know, even through a well-known television broadcast, with documents and records (so on the basis of objective data and not just testimonies or hearsay), that those fences have never been made. In addition to all this, as can be seen from the Secretary's reply, Mrs Eleonora Schonwald's proposal, which - I would like to remind you - is a representative of an animalist association that has contributed, always in compliance with the law, to the recovery of many wild animals, still present in her estate, which had offered to capture and keep the same deers in her structure, completely at her expense. Mrs Schonwald presented this proposal regularly and formally, and is registered with the Province of Ravenna which, however, has never considered it and to which she has never responded. Well, the feeling is that the resolution of the Province of Ravenna has been spoiled - in my opinion - by a prejudice and an earlier will to arrive, without contemplating everything that had to be foreseen for the protection of wildlife, to the decision of the killing, moreover in a very personal capacity, i.e. through the hunters. I want to remind you that wildlife is everyone's heritage and that is why every attempt must be made to preserve it. I therefore believe that I can express my dissatisfaction with the reasons and explanations given by the Government, which I understand in part, of course, but which I do not think is sufficient to safeguard what is enshrined in the law and which - as I said before - is the property of everyone. I conclude by saying that a greater commitment on the part of the institutions in protecting the environment and, above all, the animals would greatly contribute to the valorization of our country, making it more civil and livable for all, including hunters.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u54	I note that Senator Cardiello told the Presidency that he wanted to turn the question 3-02396 into a written question, which will take the number 4-05270. The questioning and questioning of the agenda is thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u55	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-577.ana.u56	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 16 February, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 17.28 a.m.
