ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 18 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, on measures to support public research and the university system and issues related to the start of the school year, with particular reference to the recruitment of teachers, to which the Minister for Education, University and Research, Senator Giannini, will respond. It should be noted that RAI's live television is underway. So let us turn to questions about measures of public support for research and the university system. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each. I call on the senators to respect the timetable for all questions within the RAI.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u6	DI GIORGI (PD). Minister, thank you for your time. The system of university education and research is an important investment for our country. Its anticipations, following the approval by the Council of Ministers of the 2017 Draft Budget Law, announced measures to strengthen the sector, very important interventions to support the right to study at university, basic research for universities that have increased it and for the excellence of individual departments. Some of them are compulsory for the recruitment of researchers, as well as for a complete recovery of the cuts made in recent years at universities. These are signs that certainly go in the right direction. We must also add the resources provided for the school by the Cinema Bill, which has been passed in this House and which, we imagine, will also be adopted quickly in the House. For 2017, €12 million is earmarked for image education and teacher training in schools of every order and grade and for the increase of activities within high-education schools for the cinema professions. The analysis of his first statements does not reveal the measures in support of research organisations also with reference to the particular contingent situation related to the draft legislative decree for simplification, currently under parliamentary scrutiny for the acquisition of the prescribed opinion. I therefore ask you whether and what actions are envisaged in the maneuver in support of these institutions and whether, as for universities, ordinary funding, i.e. the ordinary Fund for the financing of research institutions and institutions (FOEs), is to be increased, as is the case with universities, and whether there are additional premium resources in relation to ordinary resources. I would also like to ask you whether support is provided for recruitment, given the centrality of human capital in the research system.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u9	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, in Italy we spend less on research than the European average. Less than half of the expenditure is borne by the public system and universities; the remaining share is supported by companies, although the Italian industrial system is largely made up of very small companies, which unfortunately do not participate in innovation. Unfortunately, there is little cooperation between the public and business systems, especially with regard to the practical application of research. Minister, we ask you how you intend to compare, you could say to networks, the different public competences in the field of research, which are now the head of several ministries and bodies. We also ask you how you intend to strengthen the system of relations between public research institutions and the university system and how you intend to encourage a long-term strategy to facilitate dialogue between the business fabric and the vast number of Italian research bodies and universities, in order to use research from these products.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u12	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, Italy is at 27th place for investment in research and 35th for the number of researchers; between 2008 and 2014 public spending on research fell from EUR 4 billion to EUR 2.8 billion, spending on university from EUR 8.6 billion to EUR 7.8 billion. University freshmen dropped 20 percent and teachers dropped 17 percent. Nothing can yet be certified for both the university funding system and the quality evaluation of research (VQR), which is proving questionable, by form and substance, and far from the real meritorious criteria. Given that the Lisbon Treaty of 2000 and the 2002 Treaty of Barcelona set the minimum funding threshold for research and development at 3% of GDP for 2010, but this clearly did not happen (the government has made this commitment not only with Europe but also and especially with Italian citizens) and that in recent years there has been a systematic destruction of research and public university, the Minister wondered what the real measures are for the financing of research announced immediately after the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u15	Conte (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr Minister, with regard to measures relating to universities and research, on 29 June last, the House of Deputies, with a very large majority, committed the Government to making university policies fairer from a social and territorial point of view, starting with the right to study and the distribution of funding among universities. The Government, in particular, undertook to take initiatives to ensure equal access to university education, high artistic and musical training and higher technical institutes, through an effective implementation of the right to study, which enhances the talents of students and students, in line with the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy and European and international levels. In this respect, what measures does the next budget law provide for? What benefits for the average low incomes of the population for university education? With regard to research, are tax reliefs or benefits of a different nature designed to facilitate the implementation of these activities in university offices?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u18	BOCCHINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr Minister, as part of the public support measures for research, this Government has decided to invest a considerable amount of resources in the Human Technopole project, entrusting it to the Italian Institute of Technology, just as there are many complaints about the lack of funding for universities and public research bodies, with particular regard to the precarious situation of researchers. This mode, which is now the subject of a specific deal assigned in 7a and 12a Commission here in the Senate, configures a change of course in the policy of investments in research, introducing a top-down mode that has bypassed the public system and, in particular, the system of competitive calls for the custody of these projects and, instead, entrusts by decree to foundations under private law for the realization of the same. Recent journalistic surveys, endorsed by the management of the Italian Institute of Technology, have shown that this private foundation has set aside over the years a treasure trove of 430 million euros in an unfruitful account of the Bank of Italy, making no better specified savings on the state contribution, punctually paid by the Ministry of Economy and Finance (public contribution). I ask you first of all what the nature of this money is, whether it is in the availability of the State or in the availability of the Italian Institute of Technology and, above all, what do you think of unlocking these funds and using them in support of the basic research of young researchers and precarious, with measures covering, for example, the Fund for investments in scientific and technological research (FIRST) and the ordinary funds of universities and public research bodies. The scientific director of the foundation in question, in a recent television interview, has even declared himself in favour of using these funds for purposes not directly related to the institute itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u21	CATTANEO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Minister, at the beginning of October, the Group 2003 called for the Government to save Italian research, multiplying its funding by at least ten times. Those colleagues did not by chance use the verb "save" because this is what it is about: it is about saving a heritage that is destined to vanish. As you know, the procedures for awarding PRIN calls have just ended: 92 million available for the next three years after years of zero funding, the submitted projects are 4500 (which shows how rich Italy is) and 6 percent are financed (therefore only 300 projects many of which are cut by 75-80 percent compared to the request for funding, which means that many of them are unable to implement the proposed programme). Here I am asking you, therefore, not even to save research but the simple existence of funding for research and free ideas of Italian scholars. I am asking to allocate, if possible, in addition to what is already in the Stability Act, at least another 500 million euros to ensure continuous FIRB and PRIN decent. As my colleague Mr Bocchino recalled, of these 500 well 430 million euros are available ready cash on a fruitless account of the Bank of Italy. It is a provision, which continues from year to year, of public money intended by the State for public research in the last ten years. The holder is the Italian Institute of Technology. Minister, I also ask you whether you intend to make use of this precious liquidity to ensure the survival, subsistence and existence of free research in this country.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u24	Mr Barani (AL-A). Minister, the most recent data tell us that the university systems, in order to compete, need to march hand in hand with society and indeed, precisely from an advanced university system depends on the future of a country, its positioning with respect to other nations. Some statistics tell us that an extra year of training can lead, in one country, to one percent more GDP. In Italy the university system seems to move between a formative system that is no longer Latin but not even fully American, i.e. characterized by the tension towards specialisation, productivity and competitiveness. The question is whether it is not appropriate to support the university system in such a way as to ensure more and more specialization of students to be trained in all branches, especially scientific ones but not only, both during the university and post-university courses, a specialization which should be made a compulsory stage before access to any profession. I would also ask you if you do not consider it necessary to take legal action to ensure that every university can guarantee all the specializations, as well as if you do not believe that it is necessary to favour the generational shift in the field of university research in order to introduce in the system more fresh energies and potentially more aimed at growth and experimentation, more modern and certainly more effective because of course we need a real ageing.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u27	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mrs. Minister, the Conference of the Rectors of Italian Universities (CRUI) in recent years has supported with conviction the project, of initiative of the North League, of a system of funding of the university system that progressively abandoned the historical expenditure in favor of criteria based on the premiumity and the standard cost in order to favor an ever greater efficiency and effectiveness of the public investment in the university education. Even in 2015 both the premium fee, from 18 to 20 percent, and the percentage of the basic fee allocated in relation to the standard cost per student, increased from 20 to 25 percent, to correct the allocation of resources, up to then based on the historical expenditure for which those most obtained in the past continued to receive. Once the entire fund, of the amount of approximately 7 billion, will be distributed with criteria for 70 percent objective (standard costs) and 30 percent rewards, as in the most advanced countries. But now it happens that, in the absence of any increase in funding, the Conference of Rectors of Italian Universities (CRUI) considers that a further and progressive reduction of the historical quota is not feasible without calling into question the financial sustainability of many universities. This consideration has entered into the opinion on the Ministerial Decree laying down the criteria for the allotment for the Ordinary Financing Fund (FFO) for the year 2016, expressed by the CRUI on 26 May 2016, with the official request to reduce the share of the standard cost from 30% - planned this year - to 28 per cent. It seems that this opinion has been readily accepted by the Government and something similar we fear will happen when we define the next increase in the premium quota, which at this point could be limited to 0.5% of the FFO, i.e. the minimum per year provided for in Law No 240 of 2010. So, Mrs. Minister, we ask: how does it justify the curbing of the growth of the use of objective criteria - that is equal for all - in the allocation of resources, action clearly contrary to the legislative principle of equality; whether it actually intends to limit to the minimum the increase in the premium quota and what action does it consider to take - you, Mrs. Minister, of which we trust - so that the words of Prime Minister Renzi - which we do not trust - regarding the increase in resources for education and research do not remain, once again, an electoral promise.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u30	LIUZZI (CoR). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there are many promises made by the Budget Act for 2017 and they are also ambitious. As we know, however, previous financial manoeuvres have often contained inadequate and extemporaneous measures, the main effects of which have been to increase imbalances within the academic system and inequalities between its components. With regard to measures relating to universities and research, the motion of 29 June last, with which Parliament, by a very large majority, committed the Government to making university policies fairer from a social and territorial point of view, starting with the right to study and the distribution of funding to universities. In fact, the gradual impoverishment of families, the middle class in distress and rising unemployment are narrowing the access to university for young people. As some observers had already pointed out in the middle of the summer, the Ministry of Education, University and Research ignored this motion, so much so that, just a week after its approval, the resources of the University's funding fund were provided, unfortunately, following the old schemes and old criteria. But now the time should be ripe to understand whether, on issues such as the right to study and academic recruitment, the Government intends to breathe life into Parliament's recommendations or whether it wants to restrict itself to spot measures. The Government's proposals on the right to study and recruitment appear problematic with respect to the principles of social and territorial equity at the points of access and autonomy of the Italian university. Surely they are insufficient to solve the problems. As shown a few days ago by the last survey of the Association of Italian PhD students and PhD students (ADI), which brings together the PhD students and the precarious of research, in recent years the doctoral posts have almost halved, while the rate of expulsion of researchers not structured by the university remains frighteningly high: about 93 percent will be forced to abandon the research in the next six years. We are talking about thousands and thousands of people, mostly young people. It suffers from the country system and are points of GDP that evaporate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Liuzzi. LIUZZI (CoR). I shall conclude, Madam President. For the sum of these reasons, Minister, I would ask you whether, during the next budgetary manoeuvre, it will at least be possible to make the additional recruitment of fixed-term researchers structural and finally to adopt some corrective measures on the PhD through the abolition of taxes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u31	The Minister for Education, University and Research, Senator Giannini, may answer together.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u32	Madam President, the questions put by the Senators and the Senators on these issues essentially touch on a number of aspects which I believe can be summarized as the Government's vision of the policies and methods of funding university research and research carried out in Italian public research institutions. Very specific issues have been addressed, such as the relationship between the public and the private sector, the simplification of rules and procedures, the right to study and measures more specifically geared to so-called basic research. Of course, I will try, in an overall summary response, to refer to each of the points touched on, including the more detailed aspects, but I clearly feel obliged to answer them, such as the issues concerning the Italian Institute of Technology. I think that, for the sake of the intellectual honesty of those who answer (the Government) and of those who question (the honourable senators and senators), it is necessary first of all to specify that in order to give a comprehensive answer, we must refer in detail to all the measures that the Government has dedicated to university and research during this three-year period and that it has addressed to two fundamental chapters: the financing and the valorization of research projects and activities and the financing and the valorization of human capital. Senator Cattaneo knows very well that she is an authoritative exponent of the academic world outside this House (and it is of course also here), that everything that is the financing of human capital is basically the financing of basic research, because it is carried out in laboratories, libraries, humanities and scientific sectors, by people, in particular by young people (from doctorate, postdoc, researchers) who develop the progress of scientific thinking. I will therefore also mention the measures concerning the exploitation of human capital, considering that they are an integral part of the measures that the Government devotes to basic research. However, let us start punctually from the last two laws of stability, which have marked a reversal of a clear, clear, measurable and quantifiable trend compared to what happened in the previous decade. The ordinary funding fund, which last year was stabilized at 6.9 billion, in 2018 will rise to 7.323 billion, a figure that had not been touched since 2009: it should remember very well - among others - Senator Pelino, who already had parliamentary experience during that government that had made very different political and quality choices on the university subject. But it is not just a problem of total quantity, it is a problem and a theme of different allocation of these funds, with a valorization of the prize and with an objective of raising the quality of scientific research and university teaching, which - let us not forget - are two sides of the same medal. In this regard, I would like to point out that, again in the 2016 Stability Act, 25 million euros have been added at a premium for research institutions (which therefore complement the ordinary Fund for the financing of research institutions and institutions (FOE), which, as is well known to all of you, is the equivalent of the ordinary Fund) and that in general the premium has had and continues to have, Senator Centinaio, a progressive increase (in 2015 20 percent, in 2017 22 percent and in 2018 24 percent). This is therefore the indicator of a government's political vision to allocate funds on merit in conjunction with the non-premium macro-fund that is already allocated for standard cost. I would like to remind you that it is the first sector of the Italian public sector and it is not the merit of this Government to have started it, but to have developed, perfected and increased it. There is, however, an important novelty which is even better qualified for the qualitative rather than quantitative allocation of these funds. As they probably recall, for the first time the new three-year plan will allocate EUR 300 million per year to universities on the basis of the indicators chosen by the universities themselves, within a range of options that are essentially attributable to the three fundamental missions they have: research, teaching, internationalization and outsourcing policies (what we define in other contexts the third mission of universities). This, I say to Senator Barani above all, is an exceptionally innovative measure in our system, because it allows autonomous and responsible programming and, post-hoc, as it is right that it happens, it will allow an equally punctual evaluation within the governing bodies on the combination and alignment between the policies assigned to each university, the funds obtained and the results possibly achieved in combination with this three-year plan. With regard to human capital, as I said before, it is not a rhetorical exercise; I do not think it is from them and it is certainly not from me and this Government. We absolutely believe that the numbers of young people who will be able to find a place in our universities, starting with PhDs, advancing in career and professional development, are the real driving force behind scientific progress, and therefore the first fundamental instrument for financing basic research. This is not comparable with other systems, as the honourable Senators are well aware, because it is clear that in an Anglo-Saxon system, particularly in an Anglo-American system, where the university system has no public funding for recruitment and recruitment, that chapter is not public finance for basic research. So, systems of that type basically fund the best universities, the best departments, the best researchers. We do this too, but to a different extent and with a scalarity that is not comparable. I come to the summary description of the specific measures on this point, which I am very interested in. I want to mention from 2015 to date the adoption of the extraordinary recruitment plan for first-class professors, which will continue in 2017 with a dedicated share of 6 million euros for 2016 and 10 million euros for 2017; the total outlet, already included in last year's law of stability, of recruitment for young researchers (so, the so-called researcher type A; the assumption of a plan - we said last year and I repeat it with objective and quantifiable data this year - not extraordinary, but that it becomes structural and permanent, of 1,027 researchers last year (800 for the university and the remaining share for research institutions) and that this year it will be possible to continue. In fact, thanks to another measure that has an additional purpose compared to direct recruitment, but whose resources go also to direct recruitment, that is that quota destined to the valorization of the excellent departments, that is those that demonstrate a quality of research evaluated on the basis of the new VQR above a certain standard, that represents an important quota: 271 million, of which up to 70 percent (and not less than 25 percent) will have to be destined to the recruitment of young staff, therefore of researchers. They are therefore measures that as a whole constitute a puzzle that begins to take shape and continues to show a coherent vision. In this regard, let us not - even here forgive the point - make the mistake of imagining that research institutions are one thing and universities are something else. Research is a single process that takes place in different places in our country, but must have similar, proportionate and consistent answers. Senator Pelino, regarding technological transfer and greater contact with the world of the enterprise, and in any case with the production process, I recall another very important measure, which is the chapter relating to enabling factors, skills and training of the Industry Plan 4.0, which is the great project started, with the coordination of Minister Calenda, of which our Ministry will be the bearer and coordinator for a series of actions, such as the enhancement and strengthening of the higher technical institutes, which are that tertiary education that is not foreign to the reasonings we are doing, and in which our country has serious shortcomings in quality and quantity. I quote, then, of course, the c ompetence centers, which become active laboratories and are also new structural to better connect and, as you recall, more widely in the country, enterprise, production and research transferred. With regard to the right to study, called for by Senator Conte, education is a fundamental issue: I define it in ancient times, because I sincerely believe that education is a fundamental human right and access to study must be as wide as possible. We used this compass to describe the measures for the right to study in the bill of stability. The measures - as you will remember - are three: for the first time there is the indication of a no tax area below the 13,000 euros of declared annual income; then there is a graduality with detaxation between 13,000 and 22,000 euros; finally, the reinforcement of the right to the so-called traditional study, based on the measurement of the ISEE bands, which returns to the important level last year, with an additional share of 55 million euros, therefore a total fund of 217 million euros. Then there is another measure - this yes, innovative in this law of stability - always oriented to merit combined with the need, i.e. the enhancement of quality (Article 34 of our Constitution) in combination with conditions not always affluent of the families of departure: I remember that this measure will allow about 400 scholars, considered highly deserving on the basis of the curricula obtained from the high schools, to have a complete accompaniment in the university path, with scholarships that not only cover the part of the registration and the university tax, but that accompany the whole path, with about 15,000 euros of coverage: it is a measure I would say absolutely exceptional for our country. I've already talked about research. I want to insist on the doctorate that it is the fundamental segment to give impetus to the scientific activity of our universities, but also of our research institutions. I remember all the measures that have already been included in the National Plan (which, I remember, allocates to human capital 411 million euros), of which the project Innovative Doctorates is the highly qualifying segment. I do not mention other more specific projects, which are always part of basic research funding measures, except for one that is very important and concerns the 246 million euros planned for the accompaniment and co-financing of researchers who are ERC scholarship winners: this is a completely innovative measure, which will not only allow winners who want to stay in Italy, if they are Italian, but above all will be a very attractive element for those who are abroad. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Minister, I would ask you to come to the conclusion. Mr GIANNI, Minister for Education, University and Research. I'm basically done. It remains a point-shaped question that I have been asked, in a different way, by Senator Cattaneo and Senator Bocchino and that concerns the Italian Institute of Technology and the alleged - sources of press, but it does not appear to us - darling, as it has been defined. Clearly, the Italian Institute of Technology is responsible, with transparency, for its own budget. It was not the Ministry of Education that was directly monitoring the accounting of this institution over the years, but I believe that the transparency of its activities is also demonstrated by the high quality and reputation of the Institute. With regard to its participation in the Human technopole project, it seems to me that the situation has been clearly declined and clarified with the measures contained in this bill of stability, which assign a strong presence and a strong coordination to the Ministries (in this case MIUR and MEF), but above all a participation of the world of science, of the Milanese academy and not only.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u33	They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u36	DI GIORGI (PD). Minister, I am quite satisfied with your answer. However, I believe that there is still work to be done and I believe that we will take it as a Parliament. In fact, with regard to the need for important interventions in this world, there is still, in my opinion, a certain imbalance in measures in favour of universities compared to public research bodies, although I agree with its approach that research is a whole. It is precisely for this reason that I believe that, above all on human resources, a further effort must be made, also for this sector which absorbs a great deal of public intervention in the field of research. In relation to another matter he was talking about, I too had asked her the question of the right to study and it seems to me very interesting the answer that is given this year by this budget law. Therefore, a rule that favours the needy and the deserving I believe is of great importance. One last aspect is simplification. We have not talked enough about this, but simplification is important, and I repeat this here, even in the opinion that as a Parliament we are expressing to the Department of the Civil Service, precisely because through the simplification of interventions and the life of the institutions it is possible to achieve greater efficiency and greater effectiveness.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u39	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Minister, I would like to remind you that the latest statistics unfortunately see research and development expenditure of 1.3% compared to gross domestic product in our country (Germany, for example, has a double percentage). We are convinced that long-term initiatives must be taken if the Industry 4.0 Plan to which it has referred will produce the contribution that we want to promote the involvement of enterprises in innovation, research and development, and that in any case greater interaction with the public research system should be facilitated.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u42	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for the data she has profusely snapped (she is very good at doing this); it remains a concern. The Minister comes to talk about a law of stability as if it had already been passed, but in fact we know that around this bill there are many concerns about the covers, also because some of these covers will come from sanatoria: the voluntary disclosure (and I speak a little 'in English) and the dismantling of the debitory folders. These are one-off measures, not structural ones, while research needs structural investment and, therefore, it would also need measures that go beyond the three-year plans, perhaps with seven-year plans, as well as the initiative of the famous 500 professors. We wonder which professor will come to Italy without the certainty of having structural funding for research.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u45	Conte (AP (NCD-UDC)). I thank Mrs. Minister. I think it is important - and I am satisfied with this - that we go through the double director: raising the quality of research and increasing the amount of university students. Indeed, it is also necessary to look at the deserving ones, who may find themselves in difficult economic situations: these too have a right to study. As far as research is concerned, resources have actually been increased compared to previous financial resources; however, we believe that, in order for Italy to remain a competitive country at international level, we must invest a lot in this sector. Of course, you have also referred to the work to be done at parliamentary level during the process of approving the budget law: it will be our job to try to make new resources available.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u48	BOCCHINO (Misto-SI-SEL). I would like to thank Mrs Minister for her reply, but I cannot be satisfied with that. In your speech, I noticed that you put a lot of emphasis on premiality. In my opinion, talking about reward when the research system is not secured - because it cannot be secured a system from which, as we have heard, 95% of the precarious ones come out - does not make any sense and helps to exacerbate even more the differences. From this point of view I suggested the use of the famous treasure, precisely to secure the system with structural interventions. It is true that the Ministry of Education, University and Research has not dealt with the supervision of IIT, but it is also true that from the IIT website you can download a PDF file that highlights the existence of this treasure, which, among other things, could confirm to you also the Minister of Economy if you have the goodness to question it in this regard, in order to be able to actually understand what are the strategies of the Government and the use of this money, that exist, are there and are well documented.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u51	CATTANEO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Minister, I will read the rules of the law of stability. I would just like to remind you that the Italian Institute of Technology (ITI) is subject to its supervision. Mr GIANNI, Minister for Education, University and Research. Only accountant from MIUR. CATTANEO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). And that the 430 million euros set aside belong to mission 17 of the MEF, called "Research and innovation" programme, programme 15 "Basic and applied research." What I am asking you is not a concession in favour of free research, but rather that funds entered in the state budget, dedicated to public research, are finally employed in that direction, so be released together with the ideas of all the scholars of Italy. I really hope that you will be able to take up this request in the next parliamentary process, because it would be a very important signal for all scholars in all the disciplines of Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u54	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mrs. Minister, we in the AL-A Group are very pleased, but we invite you to do more (we do not give you praise, since we are talking about universities). We ask you to favour turnover with an intelligent ageing: you have to retire researchers who have never done a research, elderly, tired and demotivated; you have to introduce young people, but not the donkey ones, the good ones. Not always, in fact, who is young is good, and not always who is old is demotivated. I remind you that a colleague, Rita Levi Montalcini, was awarded the Nobel Prize at the age of 74, so she was a good old woman. As a result, we want the elderly who succeed in school to remain and the demotivated ones (big way, those of my age), who no longer have any motivation and no longer do research, to be retired, rightly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u57	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mrs. Minister, we take note of your words and hope that the fund will be increased, as you are telling us. The problem is that his colleagues at CRUI tell us the opposite and we are making our own the concerns that come from Italian universities. We make them ours by inviting you once again not to reduce the standard cost share, because if we want to give a service and make the university grow, we have to go in that direction. I think that, at a time when the rectors and the CRUI are calling for an alarm against the Government and those who administer this State, it must be taken into account, also in the light of the fact that you know this matter very well and for this reason we are cautiously optimistic. Maybe we won't be as interested in the next topic but, at least on the university, we don't give her praise but we are optimistic.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u60	LIUZZI (CoR). Madam President, Madam Minister, I am partially satisfied with one reason: the need to understand what is going on with the 93% of researchers who will be expelled from the university in the next six years, or rather from the research circuit. I am convinced that the zeal and attention that the Minister puts in applying herself to the role she plays will certainly go to meet these concerns, so I too am confident that this will happen in positive terms.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u61	Let us now turn to questions on issues related to the start of the school year, with particular reference to the recruitment of teachers, to which the Minister for Education, University and Research, Senator Giannini, will reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u64	Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). Madam President, Madam Minister, the implementation of the reform of the school entails greater burdens in terms of the quality of the services offered to users and therefore requires an implementation of the provision of teaching staff and ATA. It is clear that a profound and structural reform, such as the one adopted last year, takes time to carry out its effects on the system. However, the management problems arising from the extraordinary mobility that involved 200,000 workers and the critical issues related to procedures, timing and litigation largely the legacy of a stratified precariousness in too many years are undeniable. The important operation of the competition, a qualitatively important point of the reform, has encountered obstacles that slow down its procedures. Despite the differences between the regions - I personally have the situation of Piedmont - in the next few weeks in the schools the situation of teachers will stabilize with the recruitment from the AGE and, later, from the school rankings, but we will be almost two months from the beginning of the school year. Moreover, it cannot be denied how strategic the role of school managers, who are faced with increasingly complex tasks, is for the implementation of the law and for the enhancement of autonomy, which are still burdened by the many regencies and the current situation of administrative staff, in particular in relation to the directors of general and administrative services (DSGA). Certain and aware of the fact that these difficulties must not harm the effectiveness of the reform, but equally aware that the overcoming of the same in order to give an effective response to the world of the school, I ask you, Mrs. Minister, to know what are the reasons that have led to the critical start of the school year and that risk to hinder the regular conduct of the lessons with a consequent reduction of the formative offer. I would also ask you to know how mobility management has affected this situation and what information you can give us about the emanating course-competition of school leaders and DSGAs in order to ensure a regular start for the next school year.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u67	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, I would like to give your attention to a specific aspect of the recruitment of teachers, which is creating many difficulties at the proper beginning of the school year. I am referring to the 45,000 teachers of the exhausting list (GAE) who have decided not to adhere to the recruitment plan provided for by the good school, because of the so-called national availability, which required to accept any proposed work place, and the impossibility to request the temporary assignment near home in the hypothesis of transfer to a distant place, with the risk of cancellation from the rankings in case of refusal. These reasons were subsequently accepted in Law No 42 of 29 March of this year, but unfortunately when the time limits for joining the recruitment plan had already expired, with obvious damage to the teachers of the ranking in question. Minister, we ask you, therefore, whether a future and next plan for emptying lists of run-out rankings and some form of protection or preferential ranking is planned for the historical teachers of the AGE and whether it is planned to restore the deleted hours in the technical and commercial institutes following the repeated rulings of the TAR.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u70	BLUNDO (M5S). Mrs. Minister, less than 500,000 valid signatures, out of 2 million signatures collected, to have a referendum on the criticalities of Law 107 were not enough. However, they cannot be ignored because they testify to disagreement with a law that distorts the constitutional value of public school. Minister, despite his insistence and unjustified reassurances, the school year, even more than the previous one, highlighted all the negative aspects of good school and began with many problems, beginning with about 60,000 children without support due to lack of teacher appointment. Until the middle of October 10,500 empty chairs remained and there is a substantial lack of clarity about recruitment and rightholders. We cannot continue to ignore qualified precarious teachers with a serious and expensive SSIS path and contest winners who have decided not to participate in the recruitment plan provided by law not wanting to entrust their destiny to the mysterious algorithm that would force them to move away with an average salary of 1,300 euros. The choices you wanted to make in order to solve the quantitative difference of the precariousness between North and South, inventing the assumptions on strengthening in different competition classes and without complying with the vacant chairs, have turned out to be bankrupt. The next amendment by Mrs Puglisi, which introduced mobility for new recruits, has proved to be unfair and damaging, allowing them to return to their own Provinces. The former breakdown of families has replaced a social emergency in the Centre-South: there are workers outside the school world. Mrs. Minister, the insecure historical teachers of the AGE with more than thirty-six months of service would like to know if there is a real possibility to see recognized the right to direct employment... PRESIDENT. You have to finish, Senator. BLUNDO (M5S). ...or at least legal, without having to resort to legal proceedings. Will the professors currently be transformed into de facto staff of law? Are there qualifying courses for those who have worked in schools for years? For children's school teachers, who have not seen their rights recognized to date? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He has to finish, or else he takes the word off the others. BLUNDO (M5S). Are there plans for upgrading, which could be useful in these schools?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u73	Conte (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, Mr Minister, the operations relating to the transfer of teachers and the competition for new recruitment have been much longer than expected. At present, many appeals are pending, the outcome of which could alter the rankings used for the coverage of the available places, triggering a movement of the chair that would undermine the continuity of teaching. In some areas of the North many places are still not covered, even after calls from provincial school offices, because their rankings are exhausted. The coverage of the posts will be possible only at the school year ahead and using the school rankings. In addition, there are also many places of school leadership for which it has become necessary to use the assignment of many regency positions. He asked whether this situation had been taken into account by the Dicastery you represented and what initiatives you intend to take, particularly in relation to pending appeals, to allow the regular continuation of the current school year, avoiding a similar situation in the future. As far as school managers are concerned, they are asked to know what measures they intend to take in view of the holidays of places in employment and whether initiatives are conceivable to eliminate the ongoing litigation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u76	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mrs Minister, this year the schools are experiencing more than ever the lack of teachers, both on common places and on places of support, resorting to supplements, however up to those entitled. We are witnessing a continuous change of teachers, first appointed with the most questionable direct call and then revoked of office from the post which came for a new teacher. To date, we are talking about 21,000 professors who will remain undiscovered and it is absurd to think that the 21,000 teachers called to cover them will be the same who have been judged not up to a position of role since the last competition. The State therefore uses the contribution of professionals who have the qualifications and who, according to law, can enter the courtroom, explain, question and examine, but does not recognize them the right to stability. We ask you, Mrs Minister, to know whether you do not want to proceed with a further and extraordinary plan of recruitment, by guaranteeing first and foremost those who have remained by choice in the AGE, the second-class teachers and those who have full title on the basis of the last judgment of the European Court of Justice and how you intend to proceed with regard to the teachers included in the AGE, subject to appeal. We also ask you to know: how you intend to guarantee to all disabled children the effective exercise of the right to study with the appointment of the necessary teachers and also educators; how do you think to solve the shameful story of teachers, sent special miles away from home, in the name of the algorithm whose mistakes are too many and obvious to all, and what will happen to the forgotten teachers of the AGE childhood.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u79	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mrs. Minister, with a call in July 2011, the Ministry of Education, University and Research has launched a competition procedure for the recruitment of school managers: 2.386 total seats, of which 224 for Campania. Well, 50 bell-tower teachers didn't pass the pre-election test. However, the TAR Campania, accepting the request, admitted them to the subsequent tests, both written and oral, which were passed by the same with a positive outcome. However, with the subsequent decision of the regional school office for Campania, these teachers were excluded, despite the aforementioned judicial decision. To the fundamental foundation of this question and of this controversial affair, I note a clear disparity of treatment because, for identical situations, the applicants of other Regions have been inserted in the ranking of merit. Having said that, I would like to ask you, Mrs Minister, whether and how you consider it appropriate to intervene to define the situation of the above-mentioned teachers who, after having passed, I repeat, positively the evaluable evidence of the competition for school managers of July 2011, second provision of the TAR, were nevertheless excluded subsequently.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u82	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mrs. Minister, every school year start is affected by problems relating to the allocation of chairs to teachers, as well as those relating to the allocation of posts to ATA staff. In fact, for some time we have been used to seeing a month of September characterized by supplements and never by fixed teachers, who will then accompany the pupils throughout the school year. Since this state of discomfort and widespread confusion seems to have become a constant of the beginning of each school year, it is asked, regardless of any evaluation on school reform, on the subject of retirements, on the results of competitions and fixed-term recruitment and the role of ATA staff, if it does not consider it appropriate to anticipate the evaluation of these problems at a short time before the end of the previous school year, in order to address all the various problems of recruitment and assignment of teachers during the summer period, being able to examine appeals, appeals and anything else in good time and allowing the schools to reopen in September with a more orderly appearance and possibly with a reduced number of organizational problems and supplements. In the same way, the question arises as to whether it does not consider it appropriate to take legal action to encourage teachers' turnover, ageing, in order to allow fresher energies to be introduced into the teaching system and to give specific powers, in this sense, to provincial school offices by removing some of them from school managers, whose work generates a real anarchy. Finally - and here I give you the praise - I ask you to continue the beautiful project Beautiful Schools and refinance it because it has given very good results and it would be a shame to abandon it. I therefore urge you to continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u85	PEPE (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Minister, thank you for being here in person. Coming to the point, in the Italian schools there are no teachers, often forgotten figures but indispensable for many of our children in difficulty to be able to prepare and face life. For example, in Naples, at the Istituto comprensivo 73 "Michelangelo Ilioneo" where, faced with 20 young people in need of support and 14 sentences of the TAR that recognize a total of 441 hours of coverage, only 16 teachers of support against the 24 who would be necessary to support only the children for whom the families have obtained the award decisions are awarded. We wonder if the other six kids, then, are poor. I would like to ask the Minister when will be available the staff provided for by the legislation, not only for the school "Ilioneo" which manages, thanks to the skill of its managers, to be represented here, not only for the schools of Naples, but for all the schools of Italy, for all the boys of Italy, also for those who cannot afford a sentence of the TAR.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u88	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, here we come to this, because the school is the example of the Renzi government's failure, since the first time he came to this House, sitting two places further than the Minister, President Renzi told us that the school would be the priority of this government. As last year, Minister, the schools have reopened without tens of thousands of teachers, only partly replaced by temporary figures with teachers who in many classes have changed compared to the previous year, all to the detriment of teaching continuity, and with one out of six schools without school leaders. If for many teachers in the South, where historically a large number of people rely on this type of employment, so far the transfer to another region was still a painful choice and not an obligation, after Law No 107 of 2015, better known as the good school - alas - the transfer has become an imposition. The newcomers in phase C, in fact, had to express as many preferences as the Provinces, choosing them perhaps according to the relative who could host them in order to save. As a result, there are no longer only transfers from the South to the North, but also trips out of their region for thousands of teachers in the Centre-North where there are more places to cover than teachers to assign them to. This disaffection in the choice of seats in the North is mainly generated by the cost of living which, with equal emoluments, in the North is 30 percent higher. We are also receiving thousands of protests from teachers on our institutional e-mails, who are literally deported from one part of the Peninsula to the other, with relatives and children who are also young to follow or who are forced to leave in the areas of origin, with the risk of working at a loss, given the small salary of Italian teachers. Therefore, Minister, we ask you whether, in the light of the situation described above, which is certainly well known to the Minister, the Government is not seriously considering changing the current mechanism for recruiting teachers, through national competitions with regional management, in order to resolve the negative situations described above, in which they lose all the players involved, to the detriment of the quality of teaching in our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u91	LIUZZI (CoR). Mr. Minister, there are reports from the outskirts of the country that are not reassuring about the school: the lessons take place sobbing, the classes are continually dismembered and one out of three disabled students are still without specialized teacher or in the process of changing it. If, according to the data in the Ministry's possession, this is not the case, we will be happy to be denied by you, Minister Giannini, who is putting his face on it, as he says today. The situation is to have one teacher in six, while tens of thousands of teachers still have to be used and assigned to institutions; 100,000 are precarious teachers, of whom 40,000 are in support, waiting for the annual appointment and a large part of the teachers enhancers, sent by the school offices, prove different from those requested by the schools and therefore unusable. The regional school offices are struggling with the continuous reconstruction of the rankings. In short, the school, the complex system of Italian didactics, has a fever. School managers have been left alone to handle this situation and one out of three is called to manage more than one autonomous institution, with peaks of as many as 21 overall locations for a single head of school. Those who suffer the harmful effects of this situation are school workers and, of course, first of all, students and their families. I want to give a practical example: there are still no chairs of mathematics and so, waiting for alternates from outside the Province, who do not arrive, they have been entrusted, in some cases, to the teachers of music of the reinforcement. It is not collapse - for goodness sake - we do not like to make easy demagogy, but precariousness is perceived and the sentiment of the country is pervaded. It is hoped to be able to compensate for the vacatio with the winners of the contest, but the merit rankings go slow and the winners are still few throughout Italy, due to the very high percentage of rejections. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator Liuzzi. LIUZZI (CoR). I shall begin with the conclusion, Madam President. We are at the paradox: before there were cuts and could not be hired. This year the state has put the resources, but the staff is not in fact there. What, then, are the urgent measures being taken to curb this situation? All the school year will take place with the above methods, ending up becoming an annus horribilis for teaching, with dramatic repercussions on the future of Italian competitiveness?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u92	The Minister for Education, University and Research, Senator Giannini, may answer together.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u93	Madam President, in this case the complexity and articulation of the many questions put by the Senators and the Senators corresponds to a greater homogeneity than the complexity of the previous questions, concerning university and research, because they are mainly focused on problems and issues relating to the staff of the school. There is therefore a legitimate and, from my point of view, also a dutyful indication of the answer to all individual questions. I would like to remind you that Law 107 of 2015 has aimed to introduce important and crucial innovations, which also concern students, who are the center of the educational activity of the school. Madam President, we will probably have another opportunity to discuss this. In this case I will concentrate on three or four blocks of questions, also trying to refer to individual questions. I am referring to the complexity or criticalities that have involved the start of the school year in relation to two fundamental processes, which have an extraordinary character and which, frankly, I allow myself to assess as the response (with this law) to the failure on the school of a fair amount of governments that preceded us. This response focused on a fundamental action: an assumption plan that last year led to the introduction of 120,000 teachers, of which 47,000 for upgrading. Upgrading means giving more teachers to the schools, qualifying their specializations and therefore having an important impact on the teaching and training provision of the schools themselves; it also means assigning - which had not been done in previous decades - a right to stability of life and position in the State, under the Italian Constitution. These impressive numbers were then combined with another process, well known to the interrogators, indicated by the law and introduced into the law by the parliamentary path, as it is obvious and just that it happens, that is the extraordinary mobility plan of the teachers, which covered 207,000 positions that could be called into question in their place and in the final destination. The interweaving of these two factors has created greater complexity in this school year in assigning roles and chairs. I do not give reassurances either insistent or unmotivated, Senator Blundo, I provide very precise data when asked for and of course I do so here as I have done on other occasions. The assignments and critical situations that in recent weeks have been linked to the temporary assignments, to the interweaving of this extraordinary mobility plan and the mobility contract, which has changed the transfer system making them interprovincial, to the introduction of the relevant novelty of the so-called areas compared to what was before, that is, the simple listing by score and ranking. All this has created a system that in these days is being fixed, of course with a phenomenon that in some cases is unsolvable. I quote the case of the chairs of mathematics, evoked last by Senator Liuzzi, who at some juncture were also discovered in the competition of the same competition class. Unfortunately, this can only be solved by working from the bottom up and by increasing the number of students in scientific faculties, in particular mathematics, and by allowing graduates in this field to have a regular start on their teaching career, with a regular procedure that is not the decade or twenty years of precariousness, but a national competition that can give young people prepared and motivated to the Italian school. The fundamental theme that has not yet been resolved and that in this law of stability will have an opportunity to be solved, because it is the stone conviviate of all these issues that we have discussed (and that on other occasions have been commented on with the precise data that I have reported to you and that I will continue in detail to quote), is that of discrasia between a de facto staff and one of law. This is the real theme of the school and it is that over the years it has created the basic complexity in the allocation of the staff. I would remind you that for the first time in this Stability Act in the Single Fund, which concerns public administration, a precise sum has been allocated to resolving this problem. It will therefore be a great opportunity, which not only concerns the Government, but also the confrontation between the Executive and the union forces, so that these funds can finally be allocated to the transformation of the de facto staff into legal staff. Along with the recruitments and the competition in progress, this will be the real engine of a stabilization of the teaching staff that, I understand, is the fundamental theme that they raise to my attention. Of course, from this moment on, the competition remains - allow me, I am particularly proud of it - the only instrument, Senator Petraglia, to be able to enter the world of school. It is not an extraordinary competition, it has been extraordinary for numbers (63,700 chairs, as you will remember, put into competition), but it will become the mechanism that, with three years, with national management but on a regional basis - Senator Centinario, I respond also to his solicitation - will allow those who graduate to enter the world of school through the main door, reforming also - there is a specific delegation that concerns this chapter, as you will remember - the system of initial training of teachers, and therefore access to the competition: another objective of law no. 107. The competition in place is completed for 55 percent of the procedures that had been activated; it has covered to date 21,640 places for the three-year period 2016-2018. I recall once again that all those who took part in this competition will be recruited over the three-year period, as required by the law and as a necessary and necessary guarantee to the participants. As for the other topic, which several senators raised, namely what happens to the run-down rankings, I recall that they were a specific objective of this Government because they considered, and not only by this Government, an anomaly of the system. It is inherent in the very definition of rankings that are exhausted the idea that hundreds of thousands of people accumulate with an impossible prospect of stability and that these people have to wait for an equally utopian horizon of recruitment. With the massive operations that I have mentioned and with objective quantitative data, we have begun to solve this problem; of course, a transitional phase is needed to arrive at the definitive abolition of graduations when they are exhausted. The law says so clearly, so I simply remind the senators of the application of Law No 107 and the reference it makes to the single text on education with regard to this chapter, which is Article 399, paragraph 1. This means that, until there is a definitive exhaustion of these rankings, the recruitment will take place for 50% per competition and for the other 50% per ranking. This is a principle not only of respect and restoration of the Constitution, but also of quality assurance for the school world. I am going to some more specific issues, Mr President, which I am trying to deal with briefly. Support teachers, recalled by Senator Pepe and Senator Ferrara, have been a fundamental objective in increasing quantity and enhancing quality. It is the first competition that introduces, let's not forget, specific classes for support; they have increased overall by five percent on the general staff (there are 97,000 in our country) and I believe that there is no other European country that has these numbers for this very important category of qualified staff in the world of school. We have a delegation that concerns disability and will further enhance this segment. There are specific cases. Senator Pepe quoted, if I remember correctly, the Istituto complessio 73. Michelangelo Ilioneo di Napoli who, from information that we have acquired from the regional school office to give you a precise answer, assigned ten posts in legal staff and six posts in fact, according to the provisions of the judgments cited, which, as is clear, in these cases the Ministry and the competent office in the territory can only apply. School managers are another crucial point of this measure. They have the renewed responsibilities that we all know. I am wondering when and how this professional category of the school world will be enhanced. I would remind you that 285 new school managers have been guaranteed and authorised to act. I remember that, at this point, it is the Ministry of Education, after a first phase in which management was assigned to the School of Public Administration, which will be the manager of the competition in the first person: this will allow to limit the regency in a drastic way (today there are 1,400 compared to a total of 7,200 school leaders), according to a very precise calculation, to the only 335 schools undersized. So, within a year and a half, the phenomenon of regency will have a drastic reduction, determined by this fact. Also on the managers, there is a punctual question of the Senator Romano that concerns the case Campania: I remember that the law, at paragraphs 87-91, intended to solve uniformly, at national level, both the issues of general scope, such as the annulment of the procedure, which was addressed without a geographical indication, both those that were then prolonged over time and that saw different management situations in the different regions. Among the audience of the recipients is not the case of the applicants in Campania, for which we will of course have to wait for the final outcome of the appeals, on the basis of which we will then see what measures to take. As far as mobility is concerned, I am addressing it last, although we do not miss it is one of the issues that has raised greater complexity and is a structural fact of the Italian school. It is a fact that, in this circumstance, has emerged more forcefully for the numbers I mentioned, referring to the assumption plan, extraordinary mobility and the competition in place. I remind Senator Centinario that 80 percent of the teachers - I have already said this on many occasions, but the figure remains that - have a residence and a origin from the center-southern regions, while 65 percent of the available chairs are located in the center-sevent regions. The competitive mechanism that I have indicated, in the way I mentioned it, will, in the perspective, be a very precise response to this type of phenomenon as well. I believe, however, that it is not correct to imagine, in a single country, united and substantially united in its cultural, linguistic and institutional structure, that it is an absolute evil to be the subject of transfer, for a phase of life and career in the public sector, whether it is the school or something else, to another part of the country. What is important is that this becomes a process that is governed and governable and is not the result of obligatoryness. It wasn't with Law 107, I want to remind you, because the assumption plan has proposed the option of transforming, for those who had a precarious role, that place into a stable role and in the years before the move took place, yes, but to make supplements, always with the same trajectory: from the South to the North. I believe that a huge step forward, quantitative and qualitative has also been taken in this respect.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u94	They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u97	DI GIORGI (PD). Mrs. Minister, I'm pleased with your answers. I am pleased, ladies and gentlemen, because we must agree that the school had never been the subject of such a significant intervention. It is a complex system, articulated and with enormous differentiations at the local level, so the application of the interventions is also very delicate. Applying such a complex law - I would like to remind you that there are 120,000 teachers employed and that stabilisation has involved a multi-annual and, in some cases, several decades - undoubtedly involves a huge effort. I therefore find very ungenerous - as I say here - the generalised accusations being made. There are certainly particular situations and criticalities. Mrs Ferrara had put some of them in relation to situations of real difficulty that come to be defined. However, many of them are in the process of being resolved, as the Minister said. There is a continuing need for support, especially in this transitional phase, from the Government and the world of school. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator of Giorgi. DI GIORGI (PD). We still need a lot of resources. I would like to recall those made available in the bill of stability, such as project 0-6, a very important delegation that will allow many children to attend the kindergarten at last. It is, therefore, a great enterprise, which still deserves a great deal of attention from the Ministry and I believe that the Minister must ensure this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u100	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mrs. Minister, I believe that the teachers of the run-down rankings would have liked to have had a more decisive response from you today to their problems. They are concerned because they would have liked to see their legitimate aspirations accepted, without having to endure further hardships. I would ask you, therefore, to respond urgently to these requests and to find the most equitable solution as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u103	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr Minisrto, first of all we realize once again that, instead of recognizing mistakes, we continue to blame ourselves on the failure of previous governments: we do not assume responsibility for what has been decided. The real engine, Minister, was precisely to allocate precise sums for the problem of de facto staffing and legal staffing, and the law of stability was there last year too, it could be expected there. However, as far as the high number of support teachers is concerned, we should understand why in Italy we give support to a number of children who should be treated differently, because we still do not clearly define what a disabled person is. In any case, the European Commission has opened a dossier on discrimination against AGE children: congratulations, be serene!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u106	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Minister, we understand that storytelling requires you to tell us a reassuring reality, in which everything is fine, but the reality in schools is quite different. Schools - and we would never have said so - are in total chaos, as in previous years, in perfect continuity with what had happened with previous governments. But you, when you imposed the law of good school on us, told us that 2016 would be the year of the turning point as we find ourselves with the same problems, aggravated. We are sorry, because for the umpteenth time we asked you specific questions and we did not receive the answers we would have expected. Of course, we understand why you have been so obmissive: we understand that witnessing the failure of good school after a year of your approval is a blow to the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u109	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam Minister, I am pleased with your reply, which is certainly very correct, because it refers to a judicial decision on the case in Campania. Allow me, however, to stress my perplexity again, as the regional school offices have used different meters (which is certainly not attributable to the decision and responsibility of the Ministry that you chair), with significant disparities in treatment at national level for identical situations. Evidently, from these decisions, quite original, damage has been done to some and not others. I trust that you will be able to follow this rather crooked affair at ministerial level, so that there is balance, even at national level, in the decisions taken by the various regional school offices.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u112	Mr Barani (AL-A). Madam President, of course we can understand the complexity of the subject: every reform of the school has always been contested, from Gentile, to Gelmini, Moratti, to his. Waiting for the administrative courts to get into the staff (and those to be heard) and waiting to do a school under the house of every employee and teacher, which is not possible, we believe you are doing a good job. We invite you to speed up the turnover, the ageing, because you need to introduce more trained young people into the school, and we urge you to continue the project Beautiful Schools - not good school - because the facilities must also be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u115	PEPE (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I congratulate Mrs Minister, together with her officials, on the diligence and attention she has paid to the problems of our school. However, I am partially satisfied because I would like to stress that the situation is that Italian schools lack support teachers. When will be available the staff provided for in the legislation, not only for schools in Naples but for all schools in Italy, for all young people in Italy and for all those who cannot afford a sentence of the TAR?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u118	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Minister, good school is a disaster, the beautiful schools called for by Senator Barani as well, since almost weekly we have a collapsed ceiling or a school put in bad conditions, and above all we have parents who almost have to carry toilet paper for their children. But let's remember a few things. Minister, there has always been transhumance from the South to the North, we want to avoid transhumance from the East to the West or from the West to the East. Our goal and our dream is that a teacher can teach not at home, but at least in his own Province, as happens to someone who lives in Florence and teaches at home. We knew that the extraordinary mobility planned for this summer would have greatly altered the situation, so, in our opinion, there was no point in launching a competition before mobility. Then you, Minister, keep giving us stratospheric numbers. The problem is that the numbers don't even cover the turnover. This year, the school year started with 40,000 less support teachers: if this is the good school, if these are the promises you made us last year, last summer, when you told us that everything would be nice and that we would solve all the problems, go around the Italian schools and see what's going on. Go, but don't let the children sing the songs, like Renzi did: go and see what's going on.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u121	LIUZZI (CoR). Madam President, on this occasion too I am partially satisfied. You are telling us that what is happening this year to the system of Italian didactics had to be taken into account, but in essence the competition to stabilize proceeds slowly, the teachers of support are irretrievable, the ministerial algorithm has raged falsifying social security and disintegrating family balances. Mr. Minister, next year, as we say from now on, it's on its way. I wish you well and extend them to all of us and to all Italians, so that next year the MIUR will provide us with better news.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u122	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank the Minister for Education, University and Research Giannini for his helpfulness and all the interrogations.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u123	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-706.ana.u124	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 25 October, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.30 p.m.
