ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on document LVII, No 4-a. The rapporteur, Senator Del Barba, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u5	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Update Note to the 2016 Economy and Finance Document is the third prepared by the Renzi Government. In line with the above, the Note updates the public finance economic forecasts contained in the DEF presented last April in relation to the increased stability and reliability of the available information on the progress of the macroeconomic and public finance framework, and updates the policy objectives in view of the recommendations approved by the Council of the European Union. In the annex to the Update Note, the Government also forwarded to the Chambers the report to Parliament, drawn up pursuant to Law No 243 of 2012, which illustrates the update of the return plan towards the medium-term objective, confirms its commitment to reduce the general government deficit and debt stock, describes the presuppositions of intervention, the general lines and contents of the next Stability Act and its effects on public finances and describes the new return plan to balance in structural terms. The two documents, to be submitted for the approval of parliamentary resolutions, therefore illustrate the macroeconomic and financial situation that has come to be determined during the year and the actions that the Government intends to take in the next law of stability in order to promote the economic growth of the country in compliance with the Community objectives of stability of public finances and the achievement of the objective of balance of budget in structural terms. The main theme of the two documents is the continuation of the budgetary path of the economy and employment in the country undertaken since the inauguration of the Government. The first two years of government have produced very significant results. The country has returned to growth after a long period of recession and employment has returned to a permanent increase, as evidenced by the latest data released by ISTAT. Growth in Italy returned positive in 2014, accelerated in 2015 and is strengthening in 2016. The recent upward revisions by ISTAT on annual GDP figures at 2014-2015 lead to a more positive evolution of the Italian economy than found not only in terms of output, but even more in terms of employment: 558,000 more employed in August 2016 than in February 2014. In the current year, despite the fragility of the international context, where there is a general slowdown in growth compared to forecasts, the Italian economy remains on positive ground, although with a slightly lower trend compared to the forecast of the beginning of the year. However, growth is expected to be around 0.8% on an annual basis. The Government, since its establishment, has pursued a strategy aimed at relaunching both public and private investments and in particular to support domestic consumption through the increase in disposable income of households and the reduction of the tax burden, down - we remember - from 43.6 in 2013 to 42.1 percent of 2016: key factors together with the ambitious multiannual programme of structural reforms that is helping to improve the competitiveness of the production system. Full deployment of the effects of structural reforms requires an adequate period of time and it is therefore essential that the continuation of the path of consolidation of public finances is not an obstacle to the development of growth-oriented fiscal policies. Now it is a matter of continuing with conviction on this virtuous path. In the update note, in the report to Parliament and in the supplementary documentation produced by the Minister for Economic Affairs, made available to Parliament and the Parliamentary Bureau, the mix of interventions that the Commission is preparing to launch, starting from the next budgetary manoeuvre, will be able to produce a planned growth of GDP over the next three years, equal to a percentage point in 2017, 1.3 percentage points in 2018 and 1.2 percentage points in 2019. A great deal has been said these days about the validation of these figures and the role of the Parliamentary Budget Office in examining the numbers provided by the Minister for Economic Affairs. I believe it is appropriate in this House that we welcome as a Parliament precisely because we have had the opportunity to fully test Law 243 of 2012 and to verify the positive results. I believe that this step by Parliament, which has firmly wanted the creation and establishment of the Parliamentary Budget Office, must be proudly claimed. This debate of ours must also be used to highlight, for the near future, the central role that the Parliamentary Budget Office will have to play. It is also an opportunity to explain to citizens what the Parliamentary Budget Office is, which we wanted with Law No 243 of 2012, and that nothing else is but an independent authority, it is certainly not a new body superior to or lateral to the Government. We didn't do a constitutional reform at night. It is not even a body that carries at government level, in the fields of fiscal and economic policies, the rigidity of a bicameral parity system. It's an authority. Its role is clearly defined by the law: to provide independent estimates, which Parliament has been able to enjoy during the last hearings. What are these estimates for? To create a further unnecessary conflict within the debate? Of course not. Do they serve to ensure that, in the face of a different forecast, that strange dichotomy is realized, that someone has theorized, so if the government goes ahead confirming its estimates it would be creating a wall against wall with the Budget Office and if it withdraws conforming it would be proceeding to a sort of unconditional surrender? This too obviously cannot be. This would be an unnecessary contradiction created by this Parliament. With the creation of the Parliamentary Budget Office, however, we have made an act of modernity for our institution and for our Chambers. We have an independent authority that provides independent estimates. When estimates give rise to numbers substantially different from those provided by the Government what must be done? This is what the law itself says: the Government must be heard again because by that act we simply created a point of attention. In other words, we have justified a second hearing in which we can look into the numbers which differ in the Parliamentary Budget Office. Is this difference substantial? I would like to point out that the update note to the DEF, when it puts the estimates, essentially places two levels of analysis on us. At the first level, the trend picture is reviewed. Well, the trend picture revised by the Update Note to the DEF proposes us for 2017 a GDP that drops to more than 0.6 per cent, compared to more than 1.3 per cent of the April forecast. Does this mean that there have been differences in the analysis with the Parliamentary Budget Office? It's not like that: let's say it very clearly. This first and fundamental estimate has been fully validated both by the Parliamentary Budget Office and by all major international and national authorities. This estimate, which is based on the assumption of economic developments in the coming year, under existing legislation, is of course the basic one and then makes all the forecasts and the government, like all the independent authorities and like the Parliamentary Bureau of Budget, argues that, under current legislation, GDP would increase by 0.6%. So here comes the fundamental choice of the DEF and its Update Note, i.e. the choice of affecting, through budgetary policies, with an expansive maneuver compared to this shared forecast. Therefore, the maneuver, described in detail in the Update Note, is calculated, expected and estimated in its impacts: this brings to the planning framework, which leads the Government to say that, following the outcome of the maneuver, GDP growth in 2017 will be one percent. It is only on this important fact that the maneuver will have effects on the policy framework, that there has been a divergence and so we have had the opportunity to deepen the data provided by the Government. I would like to point out that while the estimates of the trend framework refer to data available to all observers in the same way, the estimates that lead to the policy framework, clearly, relate to data that the Government, at this stage, holds in a higher way, both in relation to Parliament and to other authorities. However, we find ourselves, within the framework of Law No 243 of 2012, at a very particular moment, when we simply define the perimeter of the maneuver. So, starting to conclude this incident, what Parliament had to ask itself is whether this divergence was substantial and whether it was justified, in the end, the estimates of the Government. We can say that this debate, for which I thank all my colleagues who took part in the meetings of the two Joint Budget Committees, has enabled the Government to confirm, both analytically and in terms of conviction and strategy, the goodness of the figures that have been proposed to us. I would like to highlight this moment and greet it as a positive step for the whole of Parliament, for the majority and for minorities. Now our opinions will differ on the choices that the Government makes and on the goodness of the choice to use an expansionary maneuver, bringing the programmatic deficit to 2%, with the request, which is simultaneously submitted to the Chambers, to rise to 2.2%, up to 2.4%, in relation to issues related to immigrants and natural disasters. This is what should be the focus of the debate, that is whether or not we should make a choice of economic policy of an expansive nature, which does not undermine the medium-term objective, re-modulates it and seeks to increase - by succeeding, in the policy framework - the possibility of linking the recovery, which we believe is the most positive element of the DEF Update Note, which I shall briefly outline, in its priority content. Next year we could therefore find ourselves in a more modern, efficient and competitive country and this in itself can represent a multiplier of confidence for the citizens and the enterprises, able to push with new and greater strength the "ship Italy" towards more peaceful shores. The Update Note to our examination is therefore a fundamental step in the path described. The contents of the Note, properly integrated by Minister Padoan, illustrate the macroeconomic and public finance framework that the country intends to undertake to promote growth. In particular, in the trend scenario, GDP 2016, falling from 1.2 to 0.8% in relation to the economic developments of the first part of the year, shows a slowdown in economic growth. The fact that at international and national level we are facing a slowdown is the fundamental cause of the economic policy choices that lead us to bold decisions of an expansive type, with the aim of increasing domestic demand, household consumption, investment, and improving exports. I would like to move on quickly to explain some of the issues and ask you, Mr President, to be able to submit the full text of the report. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. DEL BARBA, rapporteur. I would therefore like to focus on that figure, which I have already mentioned, of the net debt of general government in relation to GDP, which will be 2.4% for the current year, 2% for 2017, 1.2% for 2018 and 0.2% for 2019. Compared to the picture, the deficit-GDP-programmatic ratio therefore shows a downward but more gradual trajectory, in line with the Government's intention to strengthen growth, in order to accelerate the increase in employment and to prevent an excessively penalising fiscal instance from causing negative consequences on the social fabric, already experienced by years of low growth. It seems to me that the true nature of the Update Note to the DEF and the future maneuver lies precisely in this, that is, in the desire to take that narrow but fundamental path, for us, which is the only one that tries to keep growth together, the medium-term objective and support for fragility and even those redistributive policies that, at the end of a long period of crisis, become more necessary than ever. So there is the will and courage to save all three of these lines. I could understand - and indeed I am going to listen very carefully - who instead intended to sacrifice one of these lines; for example that of the rigor, or rather, of the medium-term objective, then to increase the deficit further, or to have a more conservative line that aims exclusively to keep the medium-term objective in the channels that we had given ourselves. I would mainly like to highlight the most virtuous and courageous aspect of our Update Note to the DEF, that is, this balance, sought with pervicacy. It should therefore be stressed that there is an understanding of reconciling stimulus to growth and respect for the yet stringent tax rules; all this also to improve a general climate of confidence, which is an economic dimension of very high value. It is not simply something to show off in the newspapers to fuel the daily political controversy: it is the first element that moves the economy. Manoeuvres of this kind, aimed at supporting and increasing confidence, bear in themselves, first of all, this great value. I don't think it's right to delight a government and a majority that, in numbers, bring to the country proposals aimed at increasing confidence. Of course, trust is one thing and mirages are something else. There are no mirages here. Here, with the tenacity of those who have reversed the verse of a decline and are slowly rebuilding a growth, scenarios are projected that in the medium term will definitively bring our country out of the crisis. As agreed with the Presidency, I would leave these scenarios and analytical numbers to the documents, so that they can also be read in a future reading, also because these days have allowed us to highlight the most important aspects and all the elements of growth that, through the adoption of the resolutions to the DEF Update Note today, we intend to pursue and that the Government intends to pursue with us. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u6	I remember that the Annex to the Update Note contains the report, pursuant to article 6, paragraph 5, of Law No 243 of 2012, which illustrates the update of the return plan towards the medium-term objective. Pursuant to Article 6, paragraphs 3 and 5, the resolution by which each Chamber authorizes the updating of the return plan shall be adopted by an absolute majority of the respective members. Therefore, the examination of the document will end with the approval of two separate acts of address: the first, relating to the report referred to in Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012, to be voted by an absolute majority; the second, relating to the Update Note to be voted by a simple majority. Motions for resolutions to both documents will have to be tabled before the end of the debate. Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, in a speech in this House just last week on the State Account, we have already had the opportunity to say that this autumn will be a particularly difficult time for the country, and therefore also for the Government. I am saying this because now the gap between the assumptions or, better, the hopes of economic policy formulated by the Commission at the beginning of the year and, instead, the facts that have happened is becoming wider and wider. I would like to reiterate the overestimate of the forecasts on GDP growth and on the improvement of public finance contained in the DEF last spring and demonstrated in the Note of variation that we are examining, because everyone has already talked about this: observers, commentators, experts. Over the past fifteen days, everyone has had words of perplexity and particular attention to a financial economic path carried out by this Government in this year that raises many doubts. I do not think there is anything to add, not to deny the notes of optimism and confidence that the majority in support of this Government come from this House and outside this House. I would like to point out, however, that all this optimism should be better dealt with, not so much with the reality of expectations, but with the reality that has already been produced. But on what are these favourable estimates, even prudential ones, which do not appear in the reality of our economy? We need only think of the first fact, the one on which we are then judged by those European rules that we have contested on many occasions. This year's deficit, which according to the Note under review would be "in line with the forecasts," in fact, increases by 0.1 percent which, seems to be an inezia but, translated into money, is equal to about 1.5 billion. Or, in order to remain in deficit, in next year's trend which, from 1.4%, becomes 1.6%. Or the programmed one, which goes from 1.8% negotiated at European level to 2%. But this ever-increasing distance between hypotheses and facts cannot but have consequences; it will not remain a mere discussion within this House or in other fora, where decisions weigh even more. A persistent optimism is not limited to increasing the effects of less growth, an effect already highlighted by the Government itself in the Spring DEF; this lack of realism of the figures puts at stake the reliability of the Executive, therefore, of the entire country. How should those national and international operators who - I would like to deny my colleague Del Barba - sometimes have more information than we and the men who sit in the government have? The public finance policy framework presented in the Update Note is not fully meaningful even on the annual horizon, they state. On the other hand, the facts play easy on expectations; when these resemble more an unmotivated hope than at predictions, they become random, based on less rational bases. I wonder: is it reasonable to doubt the way in which the planned remodulation of indirect taxes (in other words the abolition of safeguard clauses) is now going to dump almost entirely on that 0.4%, which is the rate of growth of programme GDP, compared to next year's trend? The answer is yes. The economy, however, is not mechanical, it is not: I remove this, I add that, I get that other one. If you put too many expectations on the models, you move quickly from the dictatorship of the hyperdate to the dictatorship of the not contemplated, what we continue to pretend not to see: an evolution not bad! In the same way, why so much caution on the part of the Commission over the constant demands to move the structural balance forward? Not because Europe estimates 0.1% more or less growth. Let us be clear: it depends on our public debt, which does not even fall in relation to GDP; On the contrary, it increases, and how could it be otherwise with the levels of primary current expenditure achieved and with very little real growth that cannot be properly inflated by inflation? In this programmatic document the Government announces a maneuver that, to its mind, favours growth, articulated - as far as has been written and said up to now - on the decommissioning of the safeguard clauses, on the advance pension provided for in the recent agreement with the unions - less bad that the era of consultation has ended! - and other measures aimed at reducing the tax and contributory burden of enterprises, increasing private investment and productivity, improving the labour market and employment, increasing public investment and supporting household income. Is this an ambitious programme? Of course, very ambitious. But apart from the scale of the decommissioning of safeguard clauses, do we know what the real financial dimension of the entire programme is? To date, despite the perimeter outlined also by the excellent intervention of my colleague Del Barba, all this does not seem clear. However, it is possible to express more than a few reservations about the numbers we already read. For example, are we sure that the pension advance, the fourteenth to pensioners, the no tax area for the over seventy-five, the reunion of social security contributions, the detaxation for those who draw from the pension fund weigh on the community just two billion a year? These are all interventions that would have the support of anyone, if the accounts were done a little better. Allow us to doubt that the INPS will not take on additional burdens, as has already happened with the exodus, because it is not in a position to do so. Moreover, on the front cover the doubts are no less alarming, if it is entrusted, in addition to an indisputable deficit, to an elusive spending review, to the inevitable fight against evasion - of which we have already talked many times - and to that marginal contribution of voluntary disclosure, the pardon of the condons on the condons, which expresses a cover that we all hope and that, however, we find it difficult to find. Again this year, the government plans to make its own accounts right thanks to the flexibility it says it gets from Brussels. But if that is the quality of our forecasts, let us not be surprised by the European distrust, hidden by the inevitable words of circumstance, such as those recently uttered by Commissioner Moscovici, but betraying the reality of what we think of ourselves in Brussels. Let us be honest: flexibility has been granted to us, but we have failed to make a resounding effort to justify it as early as last year. Did we forget last year's events to get permission to overtake? The President of the Council has often changed his motivation: first the migrant clause, then the security and culture package, finally the costs of the Libyan crisis, passing through the lawsuit on Turkey. But how were these resources used? What has produced the rugged defensive line change? Nothing but deficits. In situations such as these, more flexibility inevitably amounts to more deficits, probably the same outcome as the next request to overtake by 0.4 per cent, based on earthquake and migrant emergencies. Let us not be surprised, therefore, if our demands are seen with great circumspection, which is not only to be blamed on the bureaucratic spirit of the European institutions, of which they abound. We should realize that playing with numbers also means playing with words, an activity that perhaps serves in domestic affairs, those of the government obviously, that needs huge spending programs that give the impression of giving everything to everyone, to manage consensus, to smooth out the increasingly insane internal conflicts of the majority or the party of reference, to try to win the next referendary deadline and for others more or less obvious interests, but that cannot be written in an economic-financial maneuver. All legitimate things - it will be said - belong to democracy. But the interests of citizens, families, associations, businesses and legitimate interests are absolutely in the background. To continue recklessly to make economic policy choices based on the lack of reliability of forecasts is a bit like sawing the branch on which the whole country is sitting. And reading the official documents that contain them is a bit like reading, paraphrasing Márquez, the chronicle of a disaster announced. And with this, Mr President, in completing my speech in the time allotted to me, of course by presenting the motion for a resolution of the Conservative and Reformist Parliamentary Group, I would like to say that our vote on the majority's motions for resolutions, in a debate that today has valued the contributions that have come from many (especially within the Budget Commission), cannot but be opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u8	We greet students, students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo statale "Edmondo De Amicis" in Succivo, in the province of Caserta, who follow our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u9	She is registered to speak Senator Zanoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u10	Mr President, Senators and Senators, the Update Note of the 2016 Economy and Finance Document updates the 2016-2019 Public Finance Policy Framework compared to that contained in last April's Economic and Finance Document. I would like to highlight this aspect, namely the reference period, regarding the debate that you have been passionate about these days, because the divergences in the projection of the Parliamentary Budget Office compared to the Government see a forecast difference only for 2017 and only for one aspect, in a validation process that is still open. I am not going to dwell on the important role of the Parliamentary Budget Office, which I believe is truly supportive not so much of Parliament but of the Government, but I just want to point out that the current Government has, over the last two years, demonstrated a much higher forecasting capacity than the successive governments in the last decade, which, at the end of the day, had differences of prediction of various points, sometimes even of opposite sign. However, I do not want to dwell on this, because it has already been analysed before and will certainly be analysed in the next speeches. Nor do I want to dwell on macroeconomic assessments, which will be addressed in other interventions. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention, within the few minutes available to me, to some of the Government's responses to the recommendations of the Economic and Financial Affairs Council of the European Union of 12 July. Some are particularly close to my heart: Recommendation No 1 on budgetary rules for administrations, on local tax policies and on combating evasion and Recommendation No 4 on combating poverty. Recommendation 1 provides, inter alia, for the completion of the reform of the budgetary process during 2016 and for ensuring that the expenditure review is an integral part of it. Well, our framework for public finance rules has been completely redefined in recent years and has made it possible to strengthen the substantial balance of budgets and to support timely investment planning. I just remember that in this revision there was also the approval of the amendments to Law No 243 of 2012, which include, among other things, the inclusion in the balance of the MFF (accounting instrument that guarantees the coverage of expenses charged in years after the current one), which greatly helps the possibility of planning the activities of local authorities. These days we are expressing our opinion on the Government Act on standard requirements. Soon there will be the closure in the budget law of the last records for the municipalities, so that they can build, for the first time after so many years, the budget estimate to the maximum by 28 February 2017. The new regulatory framework of reference, outlining in a clear, complete and coherent way the contribution of the Regions and local authorities to the objectives of national public finances, lays the basis for a timely planning of medium and long-term resources on the territory, which allows to respect the budgetary balances, on the one hand, and to promote, on the other hand, the relaunch of local public investments and the respect of the average times of payment of commercial invoices throughout the national territory. We come to the other activities that are being implemented to respond to the European recommendations on local tax policies. The Update Note to the DEF entrusts the abolition of the capital tax on the first house significant redistribution effects. In the same line of intervention, the Government states that it will assess with the next budget laws the possibility of acting on the IRPEF based on the available financial spaces. In the overall assessment of the local tax possibility on real estate, the reform of the land register becomes fundamental. Compared to the deadline indicated by the recommendation for the completion of the intervention (first half of 2017), the Government's chronoprogram defined in the DEF estimates that the revision of the cadastral values will be the subject of more general and organic interventions, after alignment of the necessary bases-data to accurately assess the revenue and redistributive effects on taxpayers, and distributes that intervention between 2016 and 2018. We come to an important consideration, on which I would ask the Government to reflect: the development of government debt by sub-sector. The total debt increases slightly from 2015 to 2019, but while central governments increase the debt from a total of €2,000 to €2,220 billion, local governments are experiencing a massive reduction in this debt. I believe that this must be taken into account. The second aspect that I would like to highlight is the contrast to the evasion which has been very successful and has met precisely the forecasts. The revenue estimated to be realised in 2016 is higher than that of the cash forecast. The 2016 collection forecasts are higher than the receipts recorded in 2015 and the permanent revenue estimated to be realised in 2016 is higher than the permanent revenue realised in 2015. I would add a final remark, a recommendation on combating poverty and rationalising social expenditure. We have to work because this process is good, it is well underway and the National Plan for Combating Poverty is funded through the Fund for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion, with a budget of 600 million for 2016 and a billion from 2017. Very well; on this, however, it is necessary to speed up because individual people, men, women and children in difficulty, cannot wait. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bonfrisco]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u11	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u12	Mr President, the Update Note to the DEF 2016, which is necessary to adapt the economic forecasts of public finance to the changed economic framework compared to the DEF approved in April, does not convince us. All the auditees from the Chamber and Senate Budget Commissions - Bank of Italy, Court of Auditors, ISTAT - have assessed your forecasts as too confident and optimistic. The Parliamentary Budget Office did not even validate the document. Mr Padoan's speech last night in the Commissions meeting did not clarify the doubts and gave no answer to the many comments made. In my opinion, the Minister's speech was brief, disappointing and demeaning. Mr President, on this occasion too, although I have respect for your person and your role, let me point out that, once again, the working methods of the House and the Commissions have been changed and the work has been unusual and disrespectful of Parliament's work. This morning the Budget Commission was convened in the form of a text - which I have unfortunately not seen - at the sitting already begun, while the work of this House was in progress, so that I, who voted here in this House, could not participate in the work of the Commission and my colleague, Mrs Comaroli, who was present in the Commission, did not vote here in this House. I believe that this represents a lack of respect, at least as far as the votes are concerned, for the work of Parliament. Furthermore, Mr President, I find it unacceptable that subjects of this importance such as the DEF (I believe that the DEF is one of the most important issues that are being discussed in this House) can have such a small space: seven minutes to make a judgment on a document in which there are all the most important choices for the country; it is really absurd, since sometimes we spend whole days, hours and hours, discussing unnecessarily. I am truly shocked by the sense that you have democratic institutions and rules. On the merits, your predictions are, again this time - for the tenth consecutive time - unreliable. The measures by which growth forecasts are justified are inadequate and the results will be different from those expected. But we will talk about the measures in connection with the 2017 Draft Budget Document when it is examined by the Assembly. What I would like to stress is that by wrong predictions about GDP the public debt that grows in this country is increased in an unstoppable way, despite the proclamations: 2.252 billion in June 2016, 350 billion more, President, in the last five years. I'd be happy to say enough about the proclamations. Minister Padoan says: "The debt begins to decline in 2017", in 2017, President, the debt will be higher than today, if only because of the interest that will be accrued, despite the downward rates. And it will be even higher because the balance of the budget will not be achieved and therefore the deficit will be added to the debt. Now you've moved the budget balance target to 2019, but you've moved it year after year. What debt do you reduce, Deputy Minister Morando? If GDP doesn't grow, what ratio do you reduce? When will you bring the debt-to-GDP ratio to 60%, as the European Union demands? Do you realize what our country is like? Dramatic unemployment, young people without work fleeing abroad (100,000 last year), rampant poverty, reset marriages (except those gay, who are growing), birth to the historical minimum from the post-war period onwards: where are you taking Italy? Is it possible that you do not have a shred of dignity to stop for a moment to reflect and pick up some suggestions? I give some examples and with them I call on the Government to become more sobriety and responsibility, as well as to make right choices. If the pension package and the renewal of the state contract of 3.15 billion euros will have a positive effect on GDP (+0.1 in 2017), what effect would it have on GDP the payment of 70 billion euros of public administration debts to companies that have matured them, that have provided services, that have done works and that the President of the Council had committed himself to pay on the day of St. Matthew (probably not specifying the year)? Perhaps twenty times as much as the 3.5 billion you spend on the renewal of the contract. If instead of giving 80 euros to civil servants before Europeans you had renewed the contract of civil servants, which has been suspended for eight years, wouldn't it have been more just and logical? Given that employment is created only by reducing the burdens reflected, is it not a good choice to remove them and put them every other year? Young people don't want tips, but they want, President, employment. They studied at the university, there are good brains: why should we give them to other countries? Mr President, I am closing my speech on the DEF, but I would like to ask you a few more seconds to comment on it (I am doing this here, since there are other Members who are also interested): I have seen the earthquake decree, but I hope it is not the final version. I believe that the list of affected municipalities in Annex 1 should be removed. You, President, came to the funeral and saw what caused the earthquake in the Marches, Lazio, Umbria and Abruzzo; we do not have children and stepchildren, because, Deputy Minister Morando, you will regret it. Send your technicians, your teams, do your damage checks, but don't think to favor someone to the detriment of others. Let the regions determine which municipalities have suffered damage and which ones should instead be excluded from the list. Do not force the mayors to take resounding initiatives; we would certainly show them to you. [[Applause from Senators Rizzotti and Bonfrisco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u13	Senator Ceroni, this morning I told Senator Comaroli how the matter of the Budget Committee had gone. She was allowed to work until 11:00, including all the work that was going on in this House until then. This decision was taken by the Conference of Leaders. Senator Ceroni, I think you could have used your seven minutes even better if you hadn't returned to the subject. Senator Moscardelli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u14	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to contribute to this debate with some additional considerations compared to the previous speeches, in particular by the rapporteur, Mr Del Barba and Mr Zanoni, whom I thank. The Update Note to the DEF 2016 comes to our attention at a very delicate time for our economy which, after years of recession, has resumed to grow, albeit still insufficient, since 2014. World trade is freezing and its growth for 2016 is now at 1.7% compared to April's estimates of 2.8%; while for the first time since 2001, trade will grow less than the world economy, which will reach a value of 2.2%. This data on the collapse of world trade is one of the main endogenous factors that damage the growth prospects of our economy, because a growth in trade has always been a sign of strong expansion in economic history, especially in developing countries, which in parallel results in a sharp increase in exports to these countries by the most advanced economies. Within the advanced economy, the most damaged by the collapse of world trade are those countries, such as Italy, which support aggregate demand through exports, as a key component of GDP. In the years of the crisis the recession has been mitigated in our country by the export capacity that has exploited the phase of growth of world trade of the past years. It is not only world trade among the endogenous factors that penalise our growth expectations: even the dangerous deflationary spiral that increasingly overshadows the economy as a whole. Despite the massive monetary interventions by the world's leading central banks, Federal Reserve and the ECB in the first place, it has not been possible to counter the phenomenon that, in addition to acting on the expectations of economic operators with implications for demand, acts negatively on the real relationship between deficit and GDP and between public debt and GDP. The fall in world prices does not depend, as has been pointed out, on the fall in oil prices, but on wider structural factors. The intervention of the Director of the International Monetary Fund, who said that the average growth forecast at world level is too low and the negative development of world trade will be another factor of weight. The theme of relaunching investment from countries with a commercial and fiscal surplus is necessary and indispensable to help growth and public and private investments. In particular, these elements are urgent for Europe and the euro area. Low growth exacerbates the imbalances and injustices of globalisation which only with sustained growth allow scope for rebalancing. Faced with this cyclical picture characterized by powerful endogenous factors, the policies put in place by the Government in recent years have been a strong factor in mitigating their negative effects, guaranteeing GDP growth even without the help of those factors that historically saved our economy, such as uncontrolled public spending and foreign trade. I therefore believe that the forecasts of the MEF and our Minister for Economic Affairs are credible. Faced with this picture, I want to bring to your attention four factors that I think are fundamental: after thirty-four months of consecutive growth, the car market suddenly slowed down in July, marking a -1,8%, with repercussions on the growth forecasts of our GDP. But according to the data released at the end of September, in August this market marked an increase of 9.5%, largely recovering the negative figure of July, a figure that will remain positive also in view of the forecast of a new decline in September. This figure is extremely important, because throughout 2015 the four wheels were the sector that pushed up the data of the Italian manufacturing allowing our GDP to come out of the recession. (17.28) (Following Mr Moscardelli). In addition, the data on registrations in Italy return us to today a picture of lively domestic demand. Industrial production itself sees a widespread improvement in manufacturing in nine out of fifteen sectors examined. The towing capacity of the manufacturing sector is central to our country. The measures to support the modernization of industrial machinery have produced very positive results through the super depreciation and the so-called Sabatini law, allowing us to improve our competitiveness and our productivity, while pushing production in a sector such as that of industrial machinery in which we are world leader. We are in the phase of the fourth industrial revolution and the commitment through the National Plan Industry 4.0 has a strategic character to be up to date with the most advanced economies. I'll give you a figure. Our economy is still today, with 60 million inhabitants, almost 3% of world GDP. The economy of India, which grows at a more sustained pace (7.5 per cent), represents, with 1.5 billion inhabitants, 2.5% of world GDP. We therefore have an essential asset to support. Switching to the second factor. On the level of investments, after the collapse of the years of the crisis, the country has resumed to grow and finally from 2017 we will have the sign "+" on the resources invested in infrastructure and public works. Not only the planning of the great works of the previous three years will result in resources actually invested for works that are completed, but also the investments of the Ferrovie dello Stato, the ANAS, the hydrogeological section and the small and medium-sized public works of the Municipalities, thanks to the overcoming of the Stability Pact, begin to affect in concrete way the level of our investments, with repercussions on the real economy. The bonus for building renovations, energy efficiency and their expansion for 2017 will increase the important volume of investments generated, which already amounts to 28 billion euros. In the field of tourism and services in general, the increase in tourist flows and the volume of wealth generated marks very significant steps in terms of the wealth produced. Moreover, ISTAT tells us that since September, after seven consecutive declines, consumer price lists show significant growth and this figure is associated with what has already been noted by the Confindustria study centre, which indicates that the propensity to consume Italian companies is 14 percent, compared with 18.5% in Germany and 7 percent in Spain and France. There is an increase in confidence on the part of companies, especially in the manufacturing sector. Mr President, I wanted to recall these factors in order to support with conviction the estimates of the Ministry of Economy and Finance on the increase of GDP for 2017. We must concentrate the resources available so that our industrial system, particularly the manufacturing one, can, through the exploitation of the National Plan Industry 4.0, be up to date with the advanced economies. We must of course also intervene with measures that help to produce policies of rebalancing and social justice. From this point of view, the setting up of instruments such as income for social inclusion and a first signal announced on support for families with dependent children are, in my view, another element that is being incorporated into the others that have already been mentioned in the previous reports. To conclude, I would like to stress one last point. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite you to conclude, Senator, since you've been out of time for two minutes. Mr Moscardelli (PD). Mr President, it will be important for the budget law that we are going to adopt to provide for more significant interventions under national measures for the South. Moreover, it is especially necessary that it invests not only to recover the infrastructural gap, but also to identify excellences and centres of services and infrastructures of national value to the South, which represents for this country an opportunity of sustained growth to two figures and for a long time. I think if we just focus on the North Country locomotive, we're not gonna get out of it. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u15	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u16	Mr President, the Update Note to the Economic and Financial Document contains unquestionably very negative data regarding both the state of the public accounts and the real economy of the country. These figures not only show that the Economic and Financial Document drawn up during the year has made absolutely wrong, incorrect and over-optimistic forecasts, but also another new factor, which is an update of the numbers that are still too optimistic. We do not say that, but the parliamentary budgetary office which, as we all know, does not agree with the main content of the update note under consideration, and that concerns us all. Similarly, we are concerned about the Bank of Italy's valuations. The Government has decided to ignore the calls of the Parliamentary Budget Office and the Bank of Italy and to continue with an update of the forecasts of the public accounts absolutely unrealistic. This is clearly because we are moving towards a very delicate phase in the life of our country that will determine the future and survival of this Government. The Government needs to face the referendary phase with optimism and false data in order to achieve an objective that is at his heart, that is to pass the test of December 4 unscathed by proposing to Parliament and the Italians an absolutely unjustified and rosy vision of the reality of our country. Minister Padoan also predicts a growth certainly above the realistic possibilities of our country with an expansive maneuver for 2017 but linked to certain choices of the Government, including asking Europe, as it has done in the last two years, a further flexibility in order to be able to in debt even more our country and to make public shopping, but not in search of the economic recovery that we all hope but in search of consensus. These are the style of the President of the Council and the footprint of this Government. It is clear that in these two years the 19 billion flexibility required by the Renzi Government and obtained at European level has unfortunately not been used for the great opportunity to start economic recovery, which was and is necessary. Unfortunately, these 19 billion flexibility has been burned down for the sole purpose of seeking an easy consensus. It is a fact that worries us, also because it is clear to everyone that this flexibility cannot be granted infinitely to Italy. The fact that the Renzi Government had such opportunities above any other Previous government highlights the failure of this government's economic policies. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is clear that the data that President Renzi and the Government propose to us are absolutely out of reality: there is no growth and that is not because the international context prevents us from starting such growth. There have been excuses for this lack of growth that are absolutely laughable. It has been said that one of the reasons why there is no growth is Brexit. It has nothing to do with what is happening in our country, as it has nothing to do with the uncertain outcome of the vote in the United States. These are the arguments that you bring with respect to an Italy that runs away and fails to grow. There is also an international export problem in trade. You are responsible for this situation. Your government has chosen to impose sanctions on Russia (and to marry the line of Europe and the United States) which have created clear damage to our economy. It was your choice that did not produce concrete results compared to the international crisis between Russia and Ukraine, except to exclude from our possibilities and our range of exports a country that was enriching many of our economic activities. As far as unemployment is concerned, in 2017, when the rules on decontribution on new recruitment are over, unemployment will have a new growth. There is the escape of young people: it has been said that last year more than 110,000 young people have fled from Italy. We import immigrants and export young graduates who try to make a fortune. It's a country that's lost. It's crazy what we're living. There is a very high level of taxation beyond Renzi's propaganda. Debt is skyrocketing and public debt is now out of control. The reduction in public expenditure is implemented only on the shoulders of the local authorities and on the commitment of the mayors and the regions and with a central expenditure that increases even more. Time is limited and I start to conclude. The evaluation of the Update Note to the DEF is absolutely negative because it is unrealistic, full of propaganda and projected to the referendum on 4 December. You can try to deceive us all with your propaganda, but it is clear that the country is living a very different reality from what you tell us in this House, as well as through the public television service and the friendly press that still supports you. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The reality is different: it is that of a country that runs away, is struggling, with citizens who suffer a dramatic situation. Unfortunately, the reality is that your accounts are rigged, unrealistic and will not lead to the salvation of our economy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bianco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u18	Mr President, I shall confine myself to a few very quick points, without quoting numbers, in the light of what the rapporteur and other speakers have already done. These considerations fully take the picture of the Update Note to the DEF and therefore, substantially, a worsening of the growth prospects of our economy. Of course, interpretations of the phenomenon and assessments of the measures implemented are varied and opposed, but in my opinion the Government is doing absolutely good to strengthen the choices for growth and development, although in a context of substantial respect for the trajectory of public finance balance and in the trend towards the medium-term objectives in Europe. These are choices that follow a variedly defined road, a narrow and insidious road. These are difficult, complex, complicated choices and, as the rapporteur said, courageous ones, but certainly they must be put in place, because the crisis of these years and the difficulty to get out of it hits the weakest sections of our population hard, widens the inequalities between social strata and between generations: that is our concern. I believe that the answer is also in an inclusive and proactive welfare. In my view, there are measures in this direction which we have only heard mentioned in a couple of speeches, which are already a well-established part of our system. I am thinking of the multi-annual plan to combat poverty or the post-weapon law. I believe that the courage shown at this stage is also in this direction, in a system that has received substantial reductions in funding, with the new essential levels of assistance (LEA). Why don't we talk about it? Why don't we just say it? These are also choices. Of course, public health... [[Call the president back.]] Have I finished my time, Mr President? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You still have a few seconds, Senator. Thank you, Mr President. I think that public health has, at least in recent years, certainly been a laboratory of rigour and innovation. Do you remember the tables for the regional and business return plans and the unique purchasing plants? This means rigour, but also innovation, in digital health and work organisation. That is why, in this choice, health care must be carefully looked at and taken, not as an example, but certainly as a point of reference for rigour and innovation. That is why in the next budget law we must absolutely honour, with adequate funding, the challenges of the LEAs, the challenges of innovative medicines and personnel, because if in this period of crisis the first victims were the citizens, who have seen objectively contract the offer of the services, the second victims are all the operators, who have held the service in a very difficult context. Hence my considerations and the call, in the next law of stability, to read in these terms rigour and development, for health. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bonfrisco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u19	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Perri-Pitagora" of Lamezia Terme, in the province of Catanzaro, who are attending our work from the stands. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u21	Mr President, Mr Morando, I do not think I am a Nobel Prize winner if I tell you that Italy, unlike other European countries, is only now emerging from the long crisis that has developed as a result of the failure of the Lehman Brothers bank. The austerity policies pursued by the Monti and Letta Governments have led to a further fall in GDP which, according to the latest ISTAT estimates, is 2.8% for 2012 and 1.7 for 2013. The figures thus show that austerity policies have not paid. A draconian cure has been imposed on the country, which has considerably worsened the economic and social situation, contributing only to a modest extent to the improvement of public finances. The question whether it was not appropriate to follow the French, Spanish or Finnish example (to mention only three countries that failed to meet European standards), obviously remains unanswered. The President of the Republic of the time and the Presidents of the Council Monti and Letta instead wanted to lead us towards this Merkelian austerity. Let us not forget the European Union's sanctions against Russia, whose economic effects have been paid only by Italy. In 2015, growth was finally 0.7%, mainly due to increased domestic consumption and a slight reduction in public spending. On this last aspect we must continue, deburocratize, move forward. Unlike Senator Bianco, I argue that we need to put a check on the Italian Agency of the drug (Aifa), because it makes us spend too much on innovative drugs, when other countries spend 5,000 percent less only on those on the treatment of hepatitis C. In short, let's settle down: let's better control who makes the regions spend. Of course, all these factors have contributed to a (albeit limited) improvement in the situation for the current year, which in terms of GDP is expected to reach 0.8-1 percent. The recent leap forward in industrial production in August gives us hope. Obviously our Group does not support the Government; however, even if I have never cheered for Naples, I recognize that Maradona was a great player. It must therefore be acknowledged that this Government is doing its duty, so the starting point for 2017 and the following years is more solid than in previous years, but it does not escape concerns. We also hope that Hillary Clinton will win, because he certainly has a greater feeling with President Renzi and this can be useful for a further leap forward of Italy. Economic policy must retain an expansionary character, while respecting the fundamental rules of the European Union, that there should be flexibility for immigration and for the earthquake that Italy is forced to face. Above all, however, Mr Vice-Minister, we believe that with your Ministry you must commit the Government to measuring itself to the complexity of the crisis in the Mezzogiorno, which requires structural interventions and a differentiation of social policies, particularly for young people and women, whose living conditions have infinitely deteriorated compared to those of the Centre and the Centre-North. We must not forget the differences between the different metropolitan areas: in Milan unemployment is very close to the physiological rate; in Reggio Calabria - just to mention one of the many examples that can be made - it is rather dramatic. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the intervention on social security, although necessary, not only looks at welfare profiles, but can activate effective mechanisms of generational replacement in sectors such as health, which are essential to cope with the progressive ageing of the Italian population. Radical action is needed to close the long crisis that still weighs on the Italian society's shoulders. The passage, although positive, of the last few years is still incomplete and insufficient, so it is time to remedy. [[Applause from the AL-A Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u22	Senator Guerra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u23	Mr President, we are operating in a context of very slow global recovery and deceleration of labour productivity, which is largely a reflection of a slowdown in the accumulation process. On the other hand, we see that our public finances are moving in a very tight environment, although we are trying to gain room for flexibility in Europe. In this context, it is absolutely necessary that the budget law sets very precise priorities and gives stability and programmes to affect expectations by reducing uncertainty. I list some of the speeches that I and others believe would be necessary. First of all, it would be counterproductive to spread little money on many targets with short- or very short-term instruments. On the contrary, we need to focus our efforts on investment and, in particular, on those that are more able to create demand. The problem we have is not so much labour cost but demand. It is on what needs to be done, and the most effective investments in this respect are mainly (and I emphasise mainly) public investments, which are certain investments, which therefore affect expectations and with a high multiplier impact: material and intangible infrastructure, public building, school and hospital, urban regeneration, innovation and research, hydrogeological failure etc. Support for private investment must also be supported, but since, as the accompanying note reminds us, those in machinery and equipment have not shown the desired abrasion, it is important to concentrate resources to promote selective interventions, to support investment by focusing on the airs of greatest weakness and in particular meeting the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises. Investment support is much more effective in increasing productivity than a tax gift, as a result premium that, especially if roofs are extended, favours more workers at a high marginal rate (so, the richer ones than the poorer ones) at the expense of the entire community. A second very important aspect, already mentioned in the intervention of Senator Bianco, is that the budget law does not introduce reductions to the public financing of the current part of the National Health Service compared to the trend framework provided for in the DEF Update Note. We can't cut this. The Parliamentary Budget Office reminded us in a previous note that people who give up treatment for economic reasons have risen from 3.6% in 2004 to 6% in 2013, and this figure is higher if we consider the poorest groups. So we, in order to guarantee the new LEAs and avoid rations that arise, for example, from the distances to be covered and the waiting lists, to avoid the economic barriers to access, to guarantee access to innovative treatments for all those who need them, cannot afford to reduce, compared to expectations, the financing to health. The last point I would like to touch on is the strategy, evoked, of combating evasion. One aspect on which attention is not focused enough is that the taxes declared, therefore outside the risk of detection, but not paid, are increasing very much: from 10,7 billion euros in 2009 to 15,8 billion euros in 2013. We absolutely must not - as we read in the newspapers - respond to this phenomenon with a breakdown of roles and a pardon (in addition announced a few months in advance, so people are already suspending payments). On the contrary, it is necessary to avoid the practice which, of course, is confirmed in the data of using the tax as a much cheaper lender than the bank. In addition, not only with regard to your own tax debt but also with regard to the tax collected from others: therefore also VAT and withholding taxes at work. This phenomenon is growing: but if we respond with a smash, that is, if we can pay when we want, without sanctions and without interests, the answer would be really inadequate. The second thing that doesn't have to be in the budget law is a voluntary disclosure that preludes to an emerging cash, because this really exposes, whatever the stake we want to put (unless it is a stake that eliminates the problem at the root) to the great risk of translating into a large operation of legal money laundering. The last point I would like to stress about tax evasion is that it is necessary for the budget law, since it has not been done with other instruments so far, to prevent the operational paralysis in which the revenue agency would operate when on 31 December the management posts assigned on a transitional basis will expire by law, with a rule that we introduced in last year's budget law by parliamentary initiative. I expect that in one year the Government has developed a strategy that becomes more and more urgent, also as a result of the inhibition of competitions that have taken place in recent decisions, which are contradictory to each other, of the Council of State. These are the aspects that I consider to be a priority for the budget law, and so many other senators along with me. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u24	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u25	Mr President, reading this Update Note to the DEF, I find it incredible what you can write to us, because it is hard to read. Either you believe Alice in Wonderland, or you really find it hard to believe it. I remind you that was a fairy tale that was told to children; this is reality, unfortunately. I'll cut to the chase. I don't even want to comment on what those who are not your enemies have said about this DEF (let's make it like this): Bank of Italy, Court of Auditors, Istat. Nor do I comment, because I believe that those who love true things do not need these statements. Speak of promoting growth and combating poverty. I give you some data, and you have been in the government for two and a half years: 1,470 million families in absolute poverty, equal to 4.6 million people; 8.6 million in relative poverty. This situation in the South affects nine per cent of the population, and unfortunately the figure is growing steadily and is leading to unprecedented depopulation for the South. I've been saying this for too long, and you pretend you don't Find out. If I wanted to think wrong, I'd think that this situation is good for the government. Let me give an example in relation to the region from which I come, the Basilicata: having a virtually deserted, uninhabited territory can allow drilling to be done in a more comfortable way. I'm telling you, this isn't gonna happen. You say that unemployment in Italy has fallen to 11.7%: another colossal lie that does not make the democracy of this country worthy. It is clear if you consider a person who opens two ten euro vouchers as occupied, unemployment falls; if you continue this way, of course he will go down, only that people will continue to starve. Of course you don't care. Soon, as a well-known comedian says, the job interviewer will also be busy. This is so crazy! Unfortunately, keep talking about the jobs act, even though everyone has found it to be bankrupt. I want to remind you that you have given 20 billion euros to masters without a minimum of employment; the only thing that that standard has produced (also these data come from people and from bodies that are certainly not enemies) is the increase in layoffs: 7.5% more. You had to deal with the issue of Fornero reform, but on this front too you were incapable; indeed, you did not want to do anything. I remind you, just to make things clear, because anyway they remain in the record, the news, issued earlier, of a worker, little more than a young boy, hired with vouchers in a small factory to weld, who lost two fingers. Do you know what will happen to this worker, since you are talking about growth and development? That once the Iter of the Inail is completed, it will remain with two fingers less and without a job because no one will hire it; it will have no right, except that, perhaps, guaranteed by the Inail. But we don't talk about that either, or you don't want to talk about it. What interests you is to eliminate the rights that our Constitution guarantees us, for a while longer, and I hope it will continue to guarantee us, because I am sure that citizens and people have understood who you are and what you want to do. I just want to remind you (it will be a case) that J.P. Morgan was talking about erasing the anti-fascist constitutions and that you are preparing to do practically all of this. In seven minutes you can't say that much, but when you talk about investment I really find it hard to follow you from this point of view. In Italy, just to remind you (since you are talking about jobs act as an innovative thing, while I have been telling you for longer that it is nothing but a return to the past), every bond has been removed to the enterprises, which now have no constraint; and, as I said before, this has produced no benefit to the workers. So you started with the cancellation of the rights and the vouchers (as I said before) to get to the food vouchers. I say this in a provocative way: I wouldn't want to talk about virtual salary in these days, because it's the only thing you haven't done yet. After that, the workers slaughtered them: they no longer have any rights and you continue to talk about growth and the fight against poverty. As far as the fight against poverty is concerned, we have presented a bill of popular initiative (I believe it was one of the first acts we handed over) concerning the guaranteed minimum income, which exists throughout Europe (all over Europe, since we are always talking about Europe when it suits you). Well, you present yourself with a misery (I don't know how else to define it), when, according to the best analysts and experts in this field, to have a real fight against poverty the government should invest 7-8 billion euros per year. Then I ask myself and ask you: why do you give 20 billion euros and you do not create any occupation (and you are aware of this), but then, when you really have to help people and families in difficulty, you always come with things that are a misery and that do not give people any dignity? You will be responsible for this disaster, especially those who made an election campaign where there were eight very specific points, of which there is nothing left. On the other hand, your right-wing allies (although I can no longer define who is right-wing and who is left-wing among you) openly say that you are adopting the policies of their government. Congratulations. I am convinced and I am sure that good people (because this country is made up of good people) will not forgive you. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u26	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u27	Mr President, from the outset in the DEF, the government emphasizes the positive consequences, according to the Government itself, in the medium term of the so-called reform of good school. The school is in fact the largest company in the country: we have 8,384 educational institutions, more than 41,000 offices, more than 700,000 teachers, to which the administrative, executive and ATA staff must be added. However, the abundance of resources promised and announced by the Government and the majority is actually denied by the documents analysing the state's spending. By reading the data contained in the Court of Auditors' report on the general State statement for the financial year 2015, it is clear that the resources for the sector have not increased, on the contrary, net of recruitment costs, the available funds remain virtually identical to those for the financial year 2013. The EUR 800 million allocated is not enough; they would not even be sufficient to cover the minimum wage in order to adjust the payroll to inflation. We therefore have a class of teachers who remain the least paid in Europe. The extraordinary assumption plan for the years 2016-2017 was then intended to end it forever with the uncovered staff and the assignments of annual supplement, as well as to remedy the term contracts, sanctioned by the European Court. However, we learn from one of the most followed portals of the school - the portal of Orizzonte scuola - that there are still 10,500 vacancies out of 63,712 banned for the three-year period. In short, the situation is far from resolved and to this is added the chaos of competition and mobility. It is not us who say so, because, in the margins of the meeting of 10 October between the Ministry of Education, University and Research and Trade Unions, the trade unions stressed that, before leaving with delegated decrees and with measures concerning the delegations contained in Law No 107 of 2015, it is necessary to make a punctual X-ray of what happened in schools one year after the application of the law. Before proceeding - they continue - it would be appropriate to stop for a careful evaluation of the effects of this product on the quality of service and the working conditions of ATA managers, teachers and staff. In fact, the school year began in the worst possible way, with dysfunction and iniquity. Just think of the many classes still discovered because of the delays and serious errors made by the administration in the management of mobility operations and in the recruitment of alternates. The first year of experimentation of the obligation of school-work alternation, then, did not give better results and the hoped fruits did not arrive. I overlook the question of the fake abolition of the Provinces and all the chaos that has generated in the transfer of competences to the metropolitan cities and the Regions. School building isn't getting any better. Last night the Prime Minister of Politics even declared that his Government has allocated more money than all, which is a statement not totally corresponding to the truth, considering that many of the funds allocated do not rely on the Renzi Government but on EIB loans and funds already allocated by previous governments. He sketched out only a few excuses about the lack of controls and bureaucracy problems for the roofs that still collapse. The university and research are not getting better, we are still far behind: we are in the 27th place for investment in research and in the 35th place for number of researchers. The AFAM sector, after three years of stalemate in the Commission and two years of the AFAM yard, has only seen a unified text come to light these days and we do not know what the fate will be. The same is true of the Act of Government No. 329 "Schema of legislative decree simplifying the activities of public research bodies" which risks putting in paralysis and not stabilising many fixed-term researchers in fundamental research bodies, such as ENEA, for example. Culture isn't getting any better. In fact, in view of the scarce resources put in place, there are projects whose outcome is still not given knowledge and which have been lost (obviously also these) in the ports and mists of bureaucracy and administration. In the field of culture, I should like to conclude with two topical remarks. In fact, in the DEF there is no trace of the related Act of the Senate 2287 which includes "Discipline of cinema, audiovisual and entertainment", approved at first reading at the Senate on October 6, 2016. The same silence is reserved for live performance; in recent years we have witnessed a transformation of the sector into a commercial enterprise linked to market logic and sterile algorithms. We think that, with regard to school, university, scientific research and culture, in the DEF is listed a book of dreams of what the Government would have wanted to do and what perhaps the Government will do. We are patiently waiting for the investments we have been calling for for for years to be made in these three areas. It is therefore topical that we want to beat on the investments needed for university and scientific research. That is why, during the discussion of the law of stability, we will fight for Italy to reach the European standard of investment in universities and scientific research. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u28	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the clarifications given yesterday evening by Minister Padoan to the Commissions meeting reveal that we are faced with a maneuver in line with the previous ones, but that it generates even more deficits. Yet we were left with the words of Prime Minister Renzi last Monday, according to which his government's action would be based not on bonuses, but on structural measures. Structural measures are defined as those which are not occasional or cyclical and which have sound financial cover. The main actions undertaken in these three years do not have the first characteristic. Yet, where they have the first ownership, they are largely based on cover provided by safeguard clauses on VAT and excise duties. The budget law for next year will be 60% of measures to cover the remaining clause for 2017, which is worth 15 billion, covered with 13.3 billion deficits. So it's the government of bonuses, but also clauses. In addition to the safeguard clauses, which will in any case remain in inheritance to the subsequent maneuvers (we remember: 20 and a half billion for each of the years 2018 and 2019) there are the flexibility clauses. This is the other big scam in government economic policy. In fact, people are convinced that Europe, by authorising the flexibility clause on migrants, sends money to Italy to cover the expenses related to their stay in the country, pending the consideration of applications for a possible asylum. In fact, it means that the European Commission authorizes our country for a further deficit expenditure of 3.3 billion, for which Italy will have to issue additional public debt securities. Said by the way, in order to face the crisis of migrants Italy received only 112 million from the EU in 2016, so the reception of migrants today we pay it, but will pay our children and certainly also our grandchildren, considering that by now Italy issues bonds of the Treasury of fifty years. The evaluation that we give of this sixth forecast document of the Renzi Government can be made on the comparison with the forecasts missed from 2014 to the present. The zeroing of the level of net debt, which according to the forecasts of 2014 should have reached near 2017, now moves to date to be destined, that is far beyond the programmatic horizon of 2019. Moreover, it should be pointed out that the expenditure for post-earthquake reconstruction (for which an additional flexibility clause of 0.2 has been requested) is to be considered a truly exceptional expenditure, because it represents the right compensation for the survivors of the earthquake in central Italy and an investment in the housing and public heritage of the affected areas that will surely move the economy of those areas. On the contrary, for migrants, they are public resources badly used for an event widely anticipated and therefore avoidable. Expenditure on the management of migrants has almost tripled in recent years. The expected amount for 2017 will be equal to last year's, i.e. 3 billion and 300 million. So nothing unexpected, but rather the result of a bad foreign policy that did not put Italy on the European tables. With the new deficit spending, the target for reducing the debt-to-GDP ratio is also moving, which remains in 2017 consistently above 132%, even in the new policy framework. Very far, of course, the level of 120 percent considered "sustainable" for the Italian public accounts, which had also been secured as a goal reachable for 2018 in the DEF of two years ago. Meanwhile, the Government continues, and should be stressed, to benefit from the gift of Mario Draghi and the ECB, which will continue to buy our securities at least until the next year. I would like to add another point: I think that an economic and policy document should contain serious assessments on debt sustainability. In fact part of the maneuver for next year will be supported thanks to the lower passive interests estimated at almost 5 billion. Gross domestic product estimates fall relative to the initial programme framework mandate, despite an increasing level of government spending under the control of GDP growth. 28.5 billion nominal GDP growth in 2017 now seems unrealistic, because inflation is close to zero. But the problem is not how accurate are the forecasts of the increase in gross domestic product, which grows despite the largely depressive action of the Government. The question that needs to be answered is why investors flee Italy. In fact, both the Italian savings and the money of world investors, unfortunately, are not attracted by the productive activities of our country. The new maneuver, therefore, will be based on one-off measures, on the many, too many, bonuses and on the few cuts in waste. We continue to read a very dangerous underestimate of the dynamics of current spending. What is missing in the Note are precisely the proposals; first of all, how to bring out from under the brick the savings of our fellow citizens, and then how to recreate trust in the country system. The fall in the income of Italian households must be met with policies that guarantee a lasting hold on purchasing power. That is why we need concrete facts. In fact, despite the Renzian story, the Italian chronicles still speak of smart cards, schools without professors one month after the beginning of the school year, of ceilings that collapse in the classes, of fake refugees that cost the Italians 35 euros a day, of urban degradation, of corruption cases, of deaths in hospital lanes: that is, of an Italy that has not at all changed towards. Then it is also pointless to move the debate on the substance of the 47 modified articles of the fundamental charter. The no to the referendum must be a clear vote against the disastrous economic policy of these years of the Renzi Government, which has indebted the country at a record level and which would continue if the country, in December, gave confidence to this Executive. In the light of what has been said, for Forza Italia it would have been appropriate to consider proposing not a resolution to the Update Note to the DEF - as we have done - but a motion of distrust to the Government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u30	He is registered to speak Senator Guerrieri Paleotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u31	Mr President, in my brief speech I would like to make a few comments on issues relating to the Update Note that have been addressed in this afternoon's debate. As has been said, the Note draws a macroeconomic framework for a budgetary law that moves and moves along a narrow path, which is delimited, on the one hand, by developments in the international European economic framework that are not reassuring (there is a recovery, but it is in sharp slowdown) and, on the other hand, by stakes that continue to be very rigid and that are still imposed by European rules. At macroeconomic level there is a slowdown and, as has been the case for many years now, this has a greater negative impact on Italy than in other European partner countries, as already the halt of growth in the second quarter has pointed out, due to existing structural weaknesses that we know very well and that we must continue to attack with reforms that have only been partially initiated and that still need many interventions. Then there are Europe's stakes. We committed ourselves, in order to enjoy the flexibility last year and this year, to a budget deficit in 2017 equal to 1.8% compared to 2.4 that is expected for 2016. But the macroeconomic framework has changed: therefore, in the light of this slowdown, respecting that commitment today would mean a highly restrictive procyclical maneuver that would severely penalise the already modest growth in progress and frenetic it around 0.5-0.6 percent. This is exactly the opposite of what a good macro-economic manual would suggest us to do, because what we really need at this stage are anti-cyclical interventions. I believe that the budgetary policy contained in the Update Note proposes exactly such an intervention, which brings the deficit from 1.6%, to unchanged policies, to 2%. So, somehow, it exploits an available fiscal space that is tight, as I said, both at home, given the slowdown in place, and at European level, given the rules that are certainly critical, but which still exist. In assessing the impact of this manoeuvre, objections were raised by the Parliamentary Bureau of the Budget. It has been said that, against the 2% deficit, it was too optimistic to predict 1% growth. In fact, the Parliamentary Budget Office has pointed out to us that a higher deficit would be needed to achieve that growth rate: around 2.2% or even 2.4%. As we know, this was done on the basis of an average consensus estimate between various models of forecasts used. I therefore believe that it is important to reiterate that it is not on the need and the anti-cyclical nature of the economic policy manoeuvre envisaged in this Note that there is disagreement with the Parliamentary Budget Office. However, none of the political forces that have intervened have spoken out against such a move. The impact assessment is estimated at 0.4 per cent overall, and here there is full coincidence between what is written in the Note and what the Parliamentary Budget Office has assessed. The difference is in the time profile of this 0.4%: more concentrated in the first and second years for the Government, more spread over the four years for the Parliamentary Budget Office. It can be said that this is a difference more of form than of substance and obviously arises from the heterogeneity of the methods and models used for analysis and estimations, which should not surprise because it is due to that eclecticism and pluralism that today distinguishes economic, theoretical and applied science. This must be said not to underestimate the role played by the Parliamentary Budget Office today (and we believe and have always considered this role and this autonomy to be fundamental), but because we must also give proper meaning to the reading and use of the analyses and forecasts that the Parliamentary Budget Office formulates. In this respect, it is also important to stress, in order to return to the Update Note, that the intervention measures contained in it are judged by some too weak, unable to actually stimulate the economy. You have to understand yourself here. Of course, it can always be said that more and better can be done, but it seems to me that some people are proposing to openly and unilaterally violate the rules of Europe: to do more by going against and thus unilaterally trying to cut out spaces. This "doing more" would have a few more macroeconomic margins, but let us consider the scenario that is emerging next year: let us remember that in March next year, at least officially, the unconventional monetary policy of the ECB expires, and it is by no means assumed that this policy can continue in the way and in the quantity that has been achieved to date. I wonder, then, if Italy is aware, in a scenario of this kind, with the macroeconomic situation that I have described before, to cut off a space perhaps more intervention, but paying it in terms of uncertainty and above all with the risk that it would come from the fact that it would certainly have to pay much higher interest rates. I conclude by thinking that it is important to reiterate that the manoeuvre drawn in the Update Note seeks to use potential spaces available for countercyclical purposes, but reaffirming, within a European context and a euro area, certain rules that we have criticized and continue to criticize, and that we would like to try to change. But these rules are actually fundamental in order to prevent tomorrow's markets, in the short-sightedness that many times manifest, taking responsibility for an initiative and manoeuvre of speculation against the securities of our public debt. The debate is therefore interesting, but it should be clarified as to the meaning of certain alternative proposals. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u32	The debate is closed. I inform the Assembly that the Presidency has received the motion for a resolution No 100 (text 2) tabled by Senators Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller on the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012. In addition, the Presidency received motions for resolutions No 1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, No 2, tabled by Senators Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller; No 3, tabled by Senators Uras and Stefano; No 4, presented by Senator Barani and other Senators; No 5, presented by Senator Bonfrisco and other Senators; No 6, presented by Senator Bulgarelli and other Senators; No 7, presented by Senator Romani Paolo and other Senators. The lyrics are in distribution. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u33	Mr President, I would simply like to add to the thanks already expressed to the Parliamentary Budget Office those - this time even more obliging, felt and necessary - to the staff and officials of the Budget Committees and the Budget Service. It is always difficult to get between the numbers in the short time available to Parliament on these occasions. This time - we all understood - it was an even more intense job because it required an investigation supplement. The work could take place positively and successfully thanks to their support and contribution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u34	I call the Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Dr Morando, to whom I would ask you to give an opinion on the motion for a resolution submitted to the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012 and to indicate which motion for a resolution on the Update Note you intend to accept.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u35	Mr President, I want to start with the wording of the opinions, because the specific subject of this reply concerns precisely this point. With regard to the report to Parliament, the Government endorses the motion for a resolution No 100 (text 2). With regard to the motions for resolutions on the Update Note to the Economic and Financial Document, I will make my views known immediately. The Government intends to accept the motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by the majority groups.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u36	Since the Government has stated that it accepts motion for resolution No 2, signed by Senators Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller, the one-hour deadline for tabling any amendments referred to it is now due. Excuse me for interrupting, Deputy Minister Morando.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u37	Mr President, your interruption is appropriate because it allows me to explain what is the characteristic of the formulation of the judgment of acceptance of the motions for resolutions by the Government. Why in this case (I am referring to the acceptance of a motion for a resolution tabled on the Update Note) and not in others the Government is called upon to give its opinion with precision and punctuality? Because the resolution on the Economic and Financial Document (and, therefore, also the resolution on the Update Note) is linked to the definition by Parliament, in terms of commitment to the Government, of the fundamental characteristics of the budgetary maneuver that the Executive must present for the budgetary session. If the government - such as the government pro tempore - were to speak ambiguously, for example in favour of a large number of resolutions, it would be impossible to deduce from Parliament's vote the precise indication of the characteristics and contours of the budgetary manoeuvre to be presented for the budgetary session. It is for this reason that I, for the Government's acceptance of Resolution No. 2, must add that, among those tabled, there are resolutions No. 3 and No. 4 which have content largely shared by the Government. I make a political judgement on these two motions for resolutions, after having made it clear that the one accepted by the Government (and which is now subject to any amendment) is Resolution No 2, tabled by the majority. The motion for a resolution No 3 deals, in particular, with the issue of policies towards the Mezzogiorno aimed at achieving a rate of growth of the Mezzogiorno more intense than that of the rest of the country, so as to resume the path of the closure of this gap which, as we know, has unfortunately expanded further, as if that were not enough. If we were to find ourselves in a context in which the Government could accept more than one resolution, this resolution in its very short and rather non-binding premise and for the part of the device would be fully accepted. I would add that, if the proposers have read Resolution No 2 which I accepted on behalf of the Government, they will have noticed that at least some of the commitments they are asking the Government to take on policies for the Mezzogiorno are also included in the majority resolution. There is no doubt, however, that Senator Uras's resolution No. 3, contains a further emphasis on what is contained in Resolution No. 2 accepted by the Government. It is clear that for the reasons I have explained, all I can do is invite the proposers to withdraw. If they insist they will not have an acceptance judgment for the technical reason that I have tried to bring out, but I would point out that if it were an agenda outside this procedure, I would accept this indication because in essence it contains commitments that the Government is willing to make. To a very large extent this also applies to Resolution No 4. I have already explained why the reference to Resolution No 2 is exhaustive in this procedure. It is for this reason that I also call on the proposers of motion for a resolution No 4 to withdraw it so that we do not have to make a negative assessment of this implicitly, for the reason I have said it. The Government's assessment is as follows: in the premise are contained political assessments and judgments of reconstruction of national political and national economic policy over the course of these years that are shared by the Government only in part. On the other hand, as we have heard in Senator Barani's speech, it is a specific one of his Group's position, regarding the political affair of these years, which I imagine Senator Barani himself will have no difficulty in admitting is not fully shared by myself and I believe, more generally, by the Government. For the part concerning commitments, if it were a document approved by the Government outside the procedure we are examining, this motion for a resolution would also have a substantial agreement by the Executive, with an exception concerning commitment point 2, where the Government is invited to deal with the growing social distress exclusively (so it would seem) through income support operations. As we know, policies to combat social hardship have a particularly significant income support component, but in our view they do not end up in income support operations. There are many interventions on the services side to people in particular in a situation of social distress which perhaps have a greater effect of relief on their conditions than measures of mere income support. For this reason, specifically, if we vote and if the Government were to vote on this motion for a resolution, I would ask before there was a change on this point. For the reasons I have explained, however, the Government cannot accept either Resolution No 4 and therefore reiterates to the proposers the request to withdraw it. On the other motions for resolutions, the Government's judgment is different from that on the proposals on which I have just referred, for reasons which are rather obvious: they outline, in fact, alternatives to economic and fiscal policy, which are perfectly legitimate from the point of view of the proposers, but which the Government does not share. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u40	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, Mr Morando, in judging our motion for a resolution No 4, welcomed us and asked us to withdraw it. We recognise that Amendment No 2 - which we had not previously read - contains many of the points contained in our proposal, both in the preamble and in the provisions. We therefore withdraw motion for a resolution No 4 and recognize ourselves in Amendment No 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u41	I would remind my fellow Members that the deadline for tabling amendments will expire at 7.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u44	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I will not go into the matter of the parliamentary budgetary office, which has not validated the policy framework on GDP and our development. However, I would like to point out that today we are approving the Update Note to the DEF, which is the "box" under which the budget law will then be packaged. Let us remember that, as the rapporteur said, this 'box' is based on 2% deficit and will therefore certainly be smaller than that which will be taken into account on Saturday by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. What, then, is this "box" about? It is often said that it concerns revenue. We hear about spending review, voluntary disclosure, flexibility. Translated, though, what are we talking about? The spending review is a kind of social butchery, because it cuts money to the municipalities, to the former Provinces (or vast areas, as they are called), to the Regions, to the citizens who, as a Senator of the PD has recalled, renounce to the sanitary expenses. These things are very important, plus we add that the tables have 7 billion more covers, which we still do not know what they correspond to. Voluntary disclosure is a kind of pardon and flexibility is a fine word, but it is deficit: it is our money that Europe authorizes us to spend; our money that - I remember - will turn into future taxes. Flexibility means making more debt, and I remember that in November 2011, with the last Government of Centroright, the public debt was 1,913 billion euros, while in July 2016 it amounted to 2,252 billion: a difference of 340 billion euros of debt. For what? And let's remember that of these 340 billion 145 billion debt Mr. Renzi made them. These debts, which will turn into future taxes, have been used; you might have the hope that at least they have been used for measures that serve the development of our country, instead we have just seen that investment expenditures have decreased and that these amounts have been used for spot measures with electoral purposes. It is useless here to report on how they have been used, but to owe for things that are not needed is the most dramatic there can be, if we think of our citizens who are unable to arrive at the end of the month. In addition, safeguard clauses are removed and VAT will not be triggered. Renzi said it was he who prevented this additional tax, but let's remember that it was suspended for another year: in 2018 we will have this sword of Damocles again. In addition, Mr Renzi has once again proposed the safeguard clause for the increase in VAT, which is taking place. It's like a game: you put something on and then you take it off, to show how good you are. And how will this money be spent? Again, as we have said, much will be used for election ads, but here too we are faced with the game of the three cards. Yesterday we heard the Minister say that they will be used to create development and, in particular, he mentioned this super depreciation for businesses. But, Mr President, businesses don't have jobs, they don't have money to buy machinery, so what do they do with super depreciation if they can't buy the machines? We've heard about pensions. It was said: you can retire early. Yeah, thanks, but to do that, I have to start a mortgage with the bank. We've heard of school infrastructure. That's nice, that's good, since we hear that different schools are falling apart. But how long have you been saying that you have completed the procedure for renewing schools? And in spite of everything, schools continue to collapse! What will save us? The bridge over the Strait of Messina? In this regard too, we must understand why Renzi says he does, while Delrio says he will see. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Mr President, I would like to conclude with an important issue: our credibility as a Parliament is at stake, because it is essential to give concrete and serious answers to our citizens. In our motion for a resolution we formulated them, but unfortunately they were not accepted. For this reason I would like to announce the LN-Aut Group's vote against motions for resolutions Nos. 2 and 100 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u47	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, if this is the first document, the preparatory document for the next stability law, on the one hand we have a real curiosity to see how this accumulation of forecasts can be translated into concrete terms; on the other hand today we can only make the House and the Italian citizens a great concern. In fact, it seems to us - and unfortunately our impression is supported precisely by the report presented by the Government - that there is no real concentration of the points of crisis that currently lives in our country and of what are the possible, real and strong ways out. I would like to focus on one aspect, which I want to put back almost like a quote: it is said that the objectives have not been achieved. I have to say that in the last eight months there has been a turn of wrong numbers on the part of the government. It is said that there has been a slowdown in relation to a weakening of domestic demand and a lower dynamic of both consumption and investment: household consumption has been below expectations and investment has disappointed expectations of acceleration. The government writes and gives Parliament the certification of its absolute failure in terms of economic policies, because these same words were put in support of that well-known 80 euro initiative in pay envelope, on the eve of the European elections. This initiative, if you remember, was to accelerate consumption and therefore, in a virtuous way, productivity, and then tax revenue. But when we go to discuss the third DEF of the Renzi Government we can no longer say "we will see", "we will do", we must note that what has been said and done, not only turned out to be absolutely ineffective but, in many cases, also absolutely harmful. It is harmful when this type of policy even proceeds in debt. The only thing that this government feels proud and strong about is when it manages to have the EU's authorisation to outrun a few billion deficits in relation to maximum debt. But what good family father comes home happy, telling his family members that he will be able to carry on the survival of the family because he managed to get another loan from a bank? When is a policy of the good father of the family proud of this and not of being able to propose to his family, to those who have in their hearts and interests, the possibility of a greater education for their children or of a greater ease that comes from new work activities? In this DEF you do not take into account what is before everyone's eyes and has lived in a dramatic way by Italian citizens. Once again, in the law of stability that is expected for the year 2017 you will have before you a country deeply split, divided, with a part of the deserted country. I am sorry to use such a harsh term for my land, but it is what Svimez uses, which is certainly not the study centre of Forza Italia, which speaks of desertification in the Mezzogiorno of Italy, not only industrial but also social. All social agencies, that is, are in a deep crisis. And how do you respond? With one sentence, allow me, Deputy Minister Morando, hypocritical, too hypocritical. You say, unfortunately, the scissors have expanded. Mr Vice-Minister, this sentence of yours is absolutely truthful; at least it is an honour to say the truth in Parliament, namely that with the Government which you represent in this House, the North-South scissors have expanded further. However, I do not like to use the term "scissors" as if it were an envious form of a South looking at a North that is doing better: unfortunately, it is all Italy that goes wrong, that does not grow, that does not create employment. But allow me: a government cannot fail to realize that by now the youth emigration of the Mezzogiorno of Italy has reached the levels of the second post-war period cannot fail to realize that by now the United States and Australia have become the destination of our young people to make ends meet. And what is the prospect? I want to give you a crazy demographic, which makes you shudder: in 2050, with this trend, Sicily will have a 30% less population, but the increase in the average Sicilian age will be 53 percent. In other words, we will go from 5.5 million inhabitants to 3.8 million, with an average age of 51. By your actions, by your governance, you are putting very serious mortgages on the future of our country and you are not doing anything that can give the sense of a change in economics. On the same evening, I heard Mr Delrio say in two different programmes that the next Stability Act would focus on infrastructure and infrastructure investment. Then, at Porta in Porta in the same evening, I heard Prime Minister Renzi say that he would focus on social policies and the increase in minimum pensions, and again, the next day, that he would give 400 million euros to households with at least three children, and then hear him disprove all this. You see, if it weren't tragic (in view of the moment we cross), we could rejoice at the ridicule you're covering up your own government. You have not understood that there is a time for the election campaign, there is a time to make the ballot boxes say their thoughts, but then there is a time for governing. There is the ethics of responsibility. You must do your good election campaign for your goddamn "yes" to the reforms that, in a collectible way, you have voted in Parliament, but you cannot confuse the referendum campaign with the main, fundamental interest of the country, which is to be governed and at a time of so high maroses, to have a serious helm, that does not have the branches of Parliament. That crisis of confidence that Mr Mandelli mentioned in his speech is an objective damage to the economy. Confidence is one of the key indicators for economic recovery. The government has not only a duty to convince a parliament or a majority of parliaments, with respect to its permanence to warm up the seats of ministers or rulers; it has a duty to also indicate to the country what is the recipe to get out of a recession that has become criminal. Because, Mr President, this behavior is not only criminal in relation to the living conditions to which we force the most delicate and defenceless portions of our society (i.e. the school, the six million new poor in our country), but it is criminal in that we kill the hope of the new generations. It is immoral to fail to give the sign of hope to those who come after us. For these reasons we will not vote in favour of the only motion for a resolution on which the Government has expressed a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u48	I would also like to say that the motion for a resolution No 3, signed by Senators Uras and Stefano, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u49	I greet the delegation of the Pro loco of Villa Cortese, in the province of Milan, who is attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u52	Longo Eva (AL-A). Mr President, the latest ISTAT data, covering the period 2011-2015, show the country's long crisis. But this tendency of negativity was reversed on 22 February 2014, with the entry into office of the Renzi Government, which changed and archived austerity policies, giving rise to expansionary interventions that led to an increase in domestic demand. The end-of-year effect is a reduction in the tax burden of 0.6 percentage points of GDP, which, however, Eurostat accounts for an increase in current expenditure, since these are discretionary measures that are not generalised. The bonus, in the form of taxation of the IRPEF, is in fact only guaranteed to employees with taxable income within a limit of 24,000 euros. (18.56) (LONGO Eva followed). Has the measure resulted in positive effects? The debate is still open. However, beyond the specific contribution of the measure, the fact is that 2014 closes with a slight increase in GDP of 0.2 per cent, closing a negative two-year period. Different factors contributed to the limited cyclical change. Domestic demand, although remaining in negative territory with a further fall of 0.4 per cent, showed a marked improvement compared to the previous year. The cyclical reversal has immediate positive effects on the dynamics of public finance. The cyclical reversal, due to the different economic policy of the Government, has affected developments for the following year. If we had returned in 2015 to a policy of austerity, the repercussions on the real economy would have been devastating. The lack of domestic demand would have led to new and greater failures. In 2015, GDP grew by 0.7%, thanks to the contribution of national demand, which increased by 1%, and stocks that, although reduced, increased by 0.1 percent. Greater growth definitely improves the profile of public finance. Current expenditure, net of interest, remains more or less stationary, with a slight increase of less than a billion. The forecasts for 2016 are consistent with the trend of the last two years, although there are still elements of uncertainty. According to the Update Note, GDP is expected to grow by 0.8%, mainly due to the strong contribution of domestic demand, of 1.1 percent. The external contribution would instead be negative, for 0,3 points, while the stocks increase. The only certain figure is the growth gained at the end of the second quarter, which ISTAT estimates in 0.6%. Uncertainty is not lacking. At the level of public finance, while waiting for the Minister of the Economy to resolve some doubts, let's try to reach a summary judgment of these first three years of the Renzi Government. The first thing to remember is that the reversal of the trend, compared to the previous managements of Monti and Letta, has been realized and has been realized in the substantive respect of the European rules, things, both, not taken for granted. Could more be done? Of course, but on condition that you do not forget that the best is often the enemy of the good. It would not, however, be serious not to grasp in the trend described gaps and contradictions, in turn reflected - at least our judgment - of problems not first resolved at the political level. The government's parliamentary base is fragile. The choices of economic policy have been opposed both by a substantial part of the relative majority party and by those oppositions that have chosen the path of nihilism, rather than the confrontation of merit, i.e. the search for a dialogue that was not merely prejudice. Both of these positions have been defeated by the numbers we have illustrated. Although with a thousand difficulties, the country has gone on, correcting the previous choices of economic policy. Was this a policy that does not correspond to the traditional cultural approach of the left? Maybe. But in economics is worth an old saying by President Mao: It doesn't matter if the cats are white or black; the important thing is that they take the mice. The government's policy will not, therefore, be a left-wing policy, however, it has been an effective policy, even in the context of a deep crisis that affects not only Italy, but the whole of Europe. It could have been more incisive if it had not been opposed by opposites, so to speak, extremisms. Renzi heir to Berlusconi. Renzi painted as the great cheater. The thing to understand is that this fragile balance no longer holds. But the most obvious fact is one that is even more substantial: the world is changing and we are not going to the best. Oil prices, after the sharp fall in previous months, following recent OPEC decisions, have at least interrupted their downward trend. At the end of the year there will be a change in American monetary policy, still accommodating because of the forthcoming presidential elections. Meanwhile, world trade has collapsed. Its growth rate, usually a multiple of total GDP growth, will be overtaken by the latter indicator, a sign of the change in all economic policies, where domestic demand becomes a trait again. Those big flywheels that have supported that little development in Italy, without considering the crisis of the banking system, are therefore failing. In the face of these scenarios, a government capable of operating with maximum efficiency is needed, but this perspective can only be pursued if there is a compact and cohesive majority at the base, capable of having a shared programmatic basis, which is not the least common denominator of opposing visions. My group has long been aware of this need. We have been moving along this perspective for a long time. It is up to others to choose, in the hope that, in the end, awareness of the need to pursue national interest will prevail over the small cunnings of their individual gain. Dancing on the tolda of the Titanic is the most masochistic exercise that can exist. The AL-A Group therefore announces its vote in favour. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u53	Let me just make one point, Senator Longo: the quote was by Deng Xiaoping and not Mao.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u56	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, the new policy framework for public finance that the Update Note to the DEF presents to us in our view can be realised, indeed, the government has been cautious in the estimates reported, estimates that compared to last April's Economic and Financial Document are all seen downwards. However, we must bear in mind that the policy data contained in the Note are affected by the effects of the changed international framework and the slowdown in domestic demand. The Note sets the net programmatic debt of general government for the current year (in line with the trend reported in the Note) at 2.4% and for 2017 at more than 0.4 percentage points of GDP compared to the trend. The Government's request for permission to change, up to a maximum of 0.4 points of GDP, the net borrowing rate and therefore the path towards budgetary balance is motivated, as we have had the opportunity to discuss in the Commission, not only by the exogenous factors, which are the ones I mentioned before, but also in relation to immigration processes and the consequences of recent seismic events that obviously require extraordinary interventions. Moreover, it can also be useful to reverse the downward trend in growth. The trend and programmatic data reported in the Note and confirmed yesterday by the Minister still require a reflection. A reflection that must not only be made on balances but also, as the Governor of the European Central Bank, Mario Draghi says, on the composition of budgetary measures. In this sense, the choices that the Government will make will be decisive for the future. As we know, the effects of structural reforms will be seen over time and it is therefore necessary to continue the consolidation process that has been initiated and at the same time to define growth-oriented fiscal policies. For this reason we believe that the public finance policy framework outlined in the Note, which provides for the decommissioning of the safeguard clauses in 2017 (amounting to as much as 15.5 billion euros), thus avoiding the increase in taxes, and measures for growth and social development, can actually bring the desired result. In this regard, the process of reviewing public expenditure is of great importance and must be pursued with determination if we are to compensate for the effects of the decommissioning of these clauses and to increase the economy of our country. Just as the programme for the disposal and exploitation of public assets and the privatisation of corporate holdings must be carried out more effectively. It is also crucial to focus on public and private investment that can stimulate demand and productivity growth in diversified sectors of the economy. As far as public investment is concerned, it is very important to secure our country (i.e. the earthquake-proof adaptation of the territory, environmental and hydrogeological rehabilitation, the safety of school buildings). On the other hand, in the area of private investment, we believe it is important to stimulate them by means of measures in favour of companies that facilitate the purchase of machinery, equipment, tangible and intangible goods and measures that favour investment in innovation, research and development. We share, therefore, the path that has been outlined by the Government in this regard. We also believe that action is needed in favour of municipal budgets and local authorities. In this regard, I would remind you that with the reform of Law No 243 of 2012 it has been established that from 2020 the Multi-annual Boundary Fund of revenue and expenditure will enter into the balance of local self-governments. The same law provides that the next budget law will regulate the transition in the three years that separate us from 2020, establishing the quality and quantity of the progressive introduction into the balance of the Fund, so that it is actually compatible with the public finance objectives. We hope, therefore, that this forecast will actually be contained in the new budget law, just as we hope that the processes of fusion and union between local self-governments will also be favoured. Moreover - and this is a matter of particular concern to us, as the Deputy Minister knows - we hope that a consistent regulation of the financial relations between the Government, the Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol Region and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano will be implemented, in accordance with the agreement implemented by Law No 190 of 23 December 2014, with particular reference, on the one hand, to the dynamic financial assistance placed there at the expense of the aforementioned entities and, on the other hand, to the registration of the administrative surpluses and of the multi-annual tied fund of income and expenditure. This is a point that we believe to be strategic, on which we will monitor in view of the next budget law very carefully, precisely because there has been an agreement on this, which has a statutory value for our resources, defined with the State and which must be regulated in the most correct way. We call for policy to make a common objective to be fully reflected in the interpretation, which is to redistribute the resources that remain with the institutions so that investment can be shared. In this respect there is a common objective with the Government in terms of growth. Much has been said in recent months about pensions, flexible exits from the labour market and raising the no-tax area for pension incomes. The speeches on these subjects seem to reflect what the media have anticipated. They will certainly find confirmation in the next budget law, as well as the measure allowing free cumulation of contribution periods. However, it is also crucial to focus on a structural fiscal policy. In this respect, we hope that there will be permanent measures to reduce the tax wedge at work. In our view, this is a fundamental element in order to restart growth in the true sense of the word. Policies in favour of families, in support of family duties and those aimed at promoting the right to university study should not be neglected. In these areas, the paths outlined are certainly acceptable. We also welcome the measures to extend the increases in incentives for redevelopment and energy efficiency. These incentives have been very successful in recent years and extending them will also mean giving oxygen to a productive sector that is still suffering. We also consider it important, for the credibility of our Government in the face of European and world investors, to tackle the node of banks and the credit system, starting with solving the long-standing issue of deteriorated loans, which weigh like boulders especially on the budgets of smaller banks. In this regard, we hope that they will be made public as soon as possible, as reported by the Governor of the Bank of Italy, the details and analysis of the budgets of the smaller institutions: a transparency desired to reassure investors and savers about the state of health of the banks concerned. In conclusion, monetary policy should also be mentioned: it should, in our view, be better coordinated with all the fiscal policies of the eurozone and I am also referring to what was discussed this morning. Next March the program of purchases of government bonds by the European Central Bank will expire. If this programme is not extended, there will be serious consequences, such as increasing interest on our debt and difficulties for those interested in obtaining investment loans. Therefore, an expansionary and coordinated monetary policy can make a difference. I conclude by announcing the Group's support for the PSI-MAIE Autonomous Groups for majority resolution No 2 and the others on which the Deputy Minister has already spoken. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u59	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, reading and carefully studying this update note to the DEF and, indeed, even hearing the report by Senator Del Barba, it occurred to me that perhaps a new type of evaluation could be coined, perhaps to be introduced through a legislative mechanism. Those who know me know how fond she is of the environmental impact assessment; well, we could coin, for this Update Note and also for the report of Senator Del Barba, the title: "Referenceal Impact Assessment." More than a VIA, a VIR. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In fact, everything that has happened in the last few days would make us describe this Note and - alas - I believe the entire financial maneuver that we will see sooner or later, as an instrument of pure propaganda. The problem is that on December 4th it arrives, and on December 5th and 6th it arrives, and at that point it is really necessary to assess the impact of the choices that are made. Why was I talking about referendum impact assessments? Because we have to realize that both what happened before, that it was an electoral impact assessment (but in that case we were already in the tradition), and this evaluation will have a price for our country. It will not only be a price for the clash and the lacerations produced in the country, but also a price in economic terms, linked not only to the cost of the elections and the consultation, but to the cost of the operations that have been carried out. Because you want to paint the country as it is not. The situation of our country is very problematic, but the Government and this Note of update do not seem Noticing. Unfortunately, inequalities, unemployment and poverty have increased, with an economy - and this is the dramatic figure - which does not mention restarting. There is a lower recovery, much lower than in other European countries. The numbers of absolute poverty are impressive, those of relative poverty equally, not to mention the 11 million Italians who have postponed or renounced treatment. OECD estimates show that 57% of young people under 25 are precarious. In the ranking of the 34 most industrialized countries in the world, Italy is the last for the number of young graduates and the fourth for the resources invested in universities in relation to GDP, as well as the fact that it dramatically reduces the number of students enrolled in the universities themselves. I believe this Update Note is the proven proof of the failure of government economic policies. The embarrassing iter - I can only call it that - which accompanied the examination of the Update Note in Parliament - alas - is here to confirm the ineffectiveness of the policies implemented so far, otherwise the data would not have been hidden and a series of cunnings would not have been used to which I will then return. All the estimates contained, revised downwards already previously, have been rejected by the Bank of Italy, the Court of Auditors and finally by the Parliamentary Bureau of the budget, that Deputy Minister Morando and also the President of the Commission budget Tonini have always considered a bit like their jewel: in all these years they have worked a lot for the constitution of the Parliamentary Bureau of the budget, which was to be a third body. The latter, with an unprecedented decision, has produced a non-positive outcome of the validation process. In this sense, I find it absolutely surprising, as we found surprising yesterday evening Minister Padoan, who is also absent today, the pervicacious stubbornness with which Minister Padoan confirms these estimates, pulling right and also, as we heard today from the report, trying to quantify in 0.4 percent the impact of the policies defined - heard, heard, expanded, of the Government, which to me always seem a repetition of a sort of bonus, but bonus bonuses in bonuses we will end up in malus. As a demonstration of the level of irresponsibility achieved by the Government I would like to stigmatize the front pages of the document, in which it is attributed to the victory of the "yes" the ability to raise the economic growth of our country in 2017. Again, the incongruity of the estimates is evident also through the ridiculous cunnings with which they are melted. Even just reading Table II.3 shows that the 0.4% growth figure resulting from the government's "expanding" measures actually depends, by 0.3%, on the postponement of the increase in VAT to 2018, i.e. the sterilization of the safeguard clause for another year. Therefore, the failure to increase a tax due to its postponement is transformed by the Government into a measure of tax reduction related to growth. Among other things, the policy of reducing or reducing public spending to direct its savings towards tax reliefs in the rain for businesses or for tax bonuses for households has not produced the desired results. In this regard, sooner or later we will have to return to the impact of the famous 80 euro bonus and perhaps we should do an investigation asking many Italians and Italians how much they had to repay with interest. In this way and with this type of approach, not only did economic recovery not begin, but good employment did not increase, nor did domestic demand grow. The policies of liberalisation of the labour market implemented have not created new lasting and protected jobs; instead, there has been an increase in precarious work, in particular vouchers. Reforming the labour market has created a labour market under blackmail and without rights. In the same way, privatisations have not helped to reduce the debt, instead, as always, being an advantage for a few. By browsing the Update Note, I could continue to describe what happened on the labour policy front with regard to public administration and youth work. We are still talking - and we are giving a positive opinion - about the Italian Youth Guarantee Plan, which, on the other hand, continues to produce bad results. When the European Court of Auditors' report arrives, we will have to discuss the Youth Guarantee again. Not to mention the pension operation, which is this year's landmark commercial, which does not address the real issue, namely the revision of the so-called Fornero reform, and measures such as the Bee are being put in place. Finally, I would like to focus on the environmental issue. The decree-law on the earthquake was adopted and motions on the earthquake and on Casa Italia were discussed. But frankly we still do not understand - why we do not see it - what exactly Casa Italia is. We know with certainty that a real plan of investments for the safety of the buildings and the territory in our country is not there and there is no trace of it. In announcing our vote against the motion for a majority resolution, I would like to stress that a real public investment programme, a work plan, the defence of welfare and the revival of the institutions should have been launched. In our view, it is absolutely necessary not only to call into question European austerity policies (and not the use of flexibility for one-off bonuses), but to achieve a unilateral enlargement of the ratio - deficit - GDP to 3%. There is therefore a need for a total change of course: an overall three-year maneuver for work, development, innovation, research and social rights of more than 30 billion per annum, a real social compact fueled by national resources made available from the overtaking of the ceiling to the deficit. The maneuver announced is instead, once again, in the wake of the previous ones: there is a bonus in bonus, without any prospect of future for our country. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u62	Mr Gualdani (AP-NCD-UDC) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with last April's adoption of the Economic and Financial Document, we had already recorded the first real reversal of the trend in our country since the economic crisis in recent years. In 2015, gross domestic product increased, unemployment and taxes decreased and structural reforms for the country were in the process of being approved and implemented. In other words, Italy is back in motion and has finally returned to growth. What has been done so far has been a fundamental reversal of the trend, but at the same time it can only be the first of a number of positive points for a full and consolidated recovery. We are satisfied with the reforms that have been implemented so far, with measures to boost employment and investment. But all this can only be a stimulus for Parliament and the Government to continue along the reform path. Since its inception, the majority have pursued a strategy aimed at relaunching public and private investment and, in particular, supporting domestic consumption by increasing household disposable income and reducing the tax burden, which fell from 43.6 in 2013 to 42.1 in 2016. These key factors, together with the ambitious multiannual programme of structural reforms, are helping to improve the competitiveness of the production system. Far from feeling satisfied, we are aware that the past year must form the basis for a more solid and structured development involving all sectors of the country. The majority and the government are well aware that the obstacles to be overcome in order to achieve a full recovery are still multiple and rooted for too long in our country system. It is not by chance that the pace of recovery has slowed down, as well as the hardness of the double and deep recession that marked the period 2009-2013, also due to the worsening international growth prospects, the ageing population, the reduced rate of innovation, the uncertainty about the governance of the European area and the persistent macroeconomic imbalances associated with interest and inflation rates at historically very low levels and close to zero. On the other hand, in the delicate balance between the necessary restructuring of public finances and the stimulus to growth, we cannot overlook the propulsive part of the update note to the DEF. The increase in investment in infrastructure will certainly stimulate productivity in many sectors of the economy. In this context, Italy is the second country in Europe to use the funds of the Juncker Plan. The topic of infrastructural investments will necessarily have to include the construction of the bridge on the Strait of Messina, which will represent the culmination of a long process aimed at realizing the commitment made by the Government regarding the complete overcoming of the infrastructural gap that separates the South from the rest of our Country. This great work will not only allow the completion of the North-South corridor at European level, but will allow greater and easier flows of people, goods between Sicily and Italy, with economic stimuli of extreme importance. With the note under consideration, the Government indicated a more gradual achievement of the public finance objectives, indicating a net debt of 2% of GDP for 2017, 0.2 percentage points higher than expected in April in the DEF, 1.2% for 2018 and the substantial achievement of the fiscal balance in 2019 (less than 0.2 percent of GDP). These downward estimates were determined by some exceptional events, such as the calamitous events that struck the populations of Central Italy last August. In this regard, as already underlined by the motion passed in the Senate a few weeks ago, we ask for rigour and foresight in defining the instruments, also exceptional, to secure the territory, the housing heritage and the school infrastructure, as well as the environmental and hydrogeological rehabilitation. For the restoration of housing, in particular, we believe it is appropriate to extend further the increases in tax incentives for restructuring and energy efficiency, making them actually usable also for large condominiums, in order to protect the environment, to allow the recovery of employment in buildings and to promote technological innovation in the sector. In order to ensure the support of the country's productive apparatus and the competitiveness of companies, Mr. Deputy Minister, in the next budget law, it would be essential to confirm facilities such as super depreciation and its decline on the basis of the type of investment in capital goods, as well as the anticipation of further facilitations in favour of investments in innovation, research and development, the refinancing of the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises and interventions aimed at promoting the dimensional growth and internationalization of enterprises. The production system will also have to be supported by a strengthening of the detaxation of productivity premiums and by the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, to be ensured through the same level of taxation for the different legal forms in which the company is organised. The recovery of under-utilised areas and the reduction of regional disparities must be achieved by ensuring the full implementation of the masterplan for the Mezzogiorno and by defining the specific strategic actions for each territorial area concerned. As far as the pension system is concerned, there is a good deal to be done to ensure exit flexibility, provided that there is no excessive increase for beneficiaries: free aggregation of contributory periods, forms of support for flexible exit from the labour market, the increase in low pension treatment, actions for early and weary workers are all measures that need to be calibrated with a view to the entry into the labour market of young people. Last but not least, I quote the chapter on the family. I hope that the next budget law will contain a substantial chapter of measures to support the family, which will provide facilities for families in favour of the ISEE for education, sport and child growth expenditure. In conclusion, I would like to express the personal appreciation and appreciation of the Group to which I belong, for the future horizon outlined in this Update Note, characterized by courage and prudence, determination and awareness, innovation and thoughtfulness. We can therefore only vote in favour of the Amending Note to the Economic and Financial Document. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u63	I inform the Assembly that the deadline for tabling amendments to Motion for a resolution No 2 has expired, which has been accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u66	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Madam President, I was honestly tempted to ask my group not to vote on this Update Note to the DEF, only that they are more responsible than I am and would not follow me. I didn't want to vote on it, because honestly, I don't even know what we're voting on. We have examined an update note to the DEF, which has not been validated by the Parliamentary Budget Office, although I think it is rather lacking in the instruments it has at its disposal: however, it is an issue of the Fiscal Compact and for that reason alone I did not agree with its institution. Since you have always opposed our differences precisely the Parliamentary Budget Office, this time it must be said that the document has not been validated. We therefore asked for Mr Padoan's hearing and listened to him yesterday evening at 8 p.m. in the Chamber of Deputies. He brought us a couple of pages to explain why in the programming framework we would grow by 0.4 percent more, which basically contained the headlines that we have read in the major newspapers or heard on the news in recent weeks. Basically, it was said: We will do this and we will do that other, we will intervene on productivity and labour costs and we will reduce taxes....................................................................... Basically nothing was said. I have heard a note of embarrassment to listen to him, as a Member of Parliament who should have had justifications and reasons, based on concrete models and objective criteria, which are not there. So, among the reasons why we should grow more, there is the undoing of the safeguard clause. The Renzi Government had predicted that VAT rates would rise by 15 billion from 1 January 2017, but since it is making a new deficit and manages to block itself for this year, only for this reason will it increase by 0.3%. In reality, however, if the citizen paid a hundred he continues to pay the same amount, he will not see the difference. There is no point in telling me that he should have paid more, because then I wonder if when you applied this safeguard clause you have even considered the recessive effects. You raised the VAT rate so lightly. However, I asked another question to Minister Padoan: according to the consumer deflectors, looking at both the trend and the programmatic side and comparing 2017 and 2018, emerges a differential that lets me see that in 2018 also in the programmatic framework the safeguard clauses will trigger for as much as 20 billion. So I asked if it was true that the clauses will be taken in 2018 and he calmly said to me: yes, but we will also make investments and maybe we will also be able to block those safeguard clauses. But I also said that in the DEF the real money, those that should raise the country, were put in 2018, that is in 2017 there is nothing: on the Industry 4.0 Plan there are about 300 million and then everything else comes in 2018; on the big investment plan for 43 billion presented a few weeks ago with slides and tweets from the Premier, in fact in 2017 there are few tens of millions, everything else has moved in the years to come. If I have to believe that it will be able to block 20 billion new taxes from 2018, why do I have to believe that it will keep its promise for new investments? It's incoherent, I don't understand. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It's about luck. In addition, the Presidents of the Commission spoke of a motion for a resolution in which the deficit, instead of 2.4%, was raised to 2.2%: we were at the fish market. (at 19.37) (Followed by Mr Lezzi). This is because the new flexibility is not for investment; it will come from a highly politicized European Union that, in order to stop the 5 Star Movement, Beppe Grillo and the other movements in the rest of Europe, will give the Premier the opportunity to continue seeking electoral consensus for the third time: it has been done for the European elections, for the administrative ones and it will be done for the constitutional referendum. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A little money will be distributed in rain here and there to look for that niche that will finally give him the fake abolition of the Senate, with the fake savings of the billion euros he had promised. In fact, our budget remains on a single pillar, i.e. on the reduction of the cost of interest payable on debt, which, however, is not the work of Renzi, but of the expansionary policy of Draghi, which, however, will end. Then more than think of the famous spread of when Berlusconi was there! Presenting such a document, markets go crazy, unless there is a serious and authoritative government that, instead of playing with bonuses, tweets and PlayStation, talks about the problems of the country and finally wants to make those investments that now suggest all the institutions in the world. It's not just us who arrived here in 2013 with this fix: all the institutions of the world invite our country not to drop the ceilings in the head of the children who are at school, not to die when it rains, maybe to turn on the other side of the bed when there is an earthquake, as they do in Japan, instead of having hundreds of deaths. That's probably what we should do. On the other hand, this government's progress can be seen precisely from the numbers: on page 57 of the Document there is the government debt reduction table. It is curious to see that in the coming years the central administrations will only increase the bar of the public debt, while those that contribute to the recovery of the public finances are the local administrations, that is Regions and Municipalities. And we know that four billion health cuts have taken place since next year. You're also playing with the National Health Fund, because you won't increase it. In here you want to put a territorial representation of the Regions, when in reality you do not even listen to the State-Regions Conference where you go, you sit down and realize that, because the population has increased because - thank God - it lives more, unfortunately, where 100 euros were enough, today it is not enough because, instead of five patients, there are fifteen. It is therefore necessary to increase by a further billion but, since you do not increase it, you then cut it. And cut to local administrations that have the first approach to citizens. This you do, keeping your hands free from the central administrations to continue to give the patties to the right and to the missing and to keep afloat. I, honestly, would have preferred not to vote for this DEF, because it is an empty document in which is sanctioned yet another failure of the Renzi Government and, unfortunately, also the loss of credibility of Minister Padoan, who was to be only a technician but turned out to be a soldier, who is doing only Renzi's policy, wandering and going after him. Mr Morando, I cannot believe that you do not know that, in fact, we are only keeping afloat for the reduction of passive interests and that all the economic policy of this Government is bankrupt. We grow less than others, other than European locomotive. We have a higher level of unemployment than the European average than when Renzi arrived. The jobs act failed and the decontribution failed, with that scam for which you are increasing the tax wedge by one billion to be borne by artisan companies. And you keep up with the fake fight against evasion, made by the split payment that has brought our companies that work with the public administration to their knees. Only that you can do. Instead, we act on the big ones: banks and insurance. There we have to go find escape, and not with a new pardon. Renzi told us that he went to Switzerland to make the agreement, that everything was transparent now, that we could act on the current accounts and that there would not be another voluntary disclosure. Instead, a new pardon. But why, then, did he go to Switzerland to ratify an agreement? He went in vain, just to make a tweet. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u69	Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, voting against this DEF and against the motion that promotes its approval, more than simple, is almost due. This DEF, in fact, is built on the basis of a assumption that I have often heard spoken as a blasphemy by colleagues, even very authoritative, of the left of the time. This DEF is built on a programmatic deficit that worsens the trend. This means that, programmatically, government action worsens public finances. The deficit was tendentially around 1.8 percent. The government says: we'll see later, but for the time being I'm setting it at 2%. I want to say to everyone that, in a country with a very high debt like ours, the increase in the deficit necessarily results in the subsequent years in the increase of the debt. But the government says that, programmatically, public finances get worse. And it does so in another context that sounded blasphemy years ago: in a context that sees the worsening, by this Government, of the primary surplus. This government took it to 2.3 percent in 2012 and, in 2016, it is 1.5%. The mirabolante things, then, always happen in the years from 2018 onwards, but those who have seen eleven DEFs know perfectly well that, as the mirabolante things of the following year do not come true, imagine those of the years to come. This government took the primary surplus to 2.3 and brings it to 1.5. And how did he take it? Worse is the primary surplus while interest rates have dropped to the minimum of ever. Now, it is clear that the two concepts are profoundly contradictory. How many times have I heard that when interest rates drop you increase the primary surplus, so then you can make investments! As they say in Italy - excuse me for my crudeness - they preach well and they rocket not badly, but badly, with these two assumptions. We are opposed, however, by saying that we are making an expansive economic maneuver, bringing the target to 1%. All right, I'm sure it won't be, but the government supports this. I would point out that the government, on the historical basis, knows that it has mistaken all the forecasts in previous years by default, is not that a government increases the maneuver because, based on the historical series, it has seen that its forecasts improved. In 2013, the DEF for 2014 forecasted a growth rate of 1.3 and then ended at 0.1. In 2014, it provided for a rate of 1.3 for 2015 and then it ended at 0.7. Already for 2016, it was 1.4; then in the 2015 DEF Update Note it was 1.6. Now, as the President-in-Office of the Council says, we are at zero comma. Hence, the historical basis must allow caution, caution, and not. The government says: despite everything - we will see it in the end - I predict one percent. Therefore, we are in the context of a very high opinability, which therefore gives that given a probability very close to zero. Someone will say that the government, however, makes investments. No, because Minister Padoan, the other night, said that the impact on the growth of those measures is divided: the competitiveness package, therefore with reference to the Industry Plan 4.0, in 2017 - then it will do wonderful things, but I don't deal with this - according to Minister Padoan hits 0.1 points. The whole development package, that is everything that concerns public works - we know how many years it takes, but I want to believe it - hits 0.2. All this effort produces a very small investment. Why? Because, says the Government - which I would say has a demand anxiety - that what will impact much is the abolition of VAT safeguard clauses. To that measure I attribute an effect equal to a figure tending to zero because it is extraordinary to think as something that has not come true, the increase of VAT, has been incorporated by the lady who buys goods every day, who knew that there was this maneuver of the safeguard clause; therefore, as we have removed it, she will buy more. It's not like that. I know perfectly well that we are counting on trends and balances, what we have incorporated but, in my opinion, when it comes to impact on growth, we are talking about impacts on the real economy, and the elimination of clauses, to which the Government attaches the greatest impact on growth, is close to zero for me. There is more. The government asks tonight: please, we must go not to 2% but to 2.4 percent. Investment? No, because the government says: even if I am allowed 2 to 2.4% tonight, I remain cautious and leave growth to one percent. Cleverness is obvious. I translate it (it will excuse me but, to think well, as is known, it is a venial sin but it is almost never wrong): the government says: since with two percent I do not reach the one, we arrive at 2.4, so maybe I reach it. So 2 is clearly a figure that a sociologist who likes very much - I think you, Mr President, who is educated and refined, know it, I think it is called Baumann - would call it "liquid." It is liquid all this data, so either with the 2 or with the 2.2 or with the 2.4 always one is the impact: it is a bit liquid, this. But a Parliament tonight authorizes an extra 6 billion - if it authorizes it, I hope not, I will not authorize it - in order to reach that 1%. All of this has led, Mr President, to the conflict with the Parliamentary Budget Office. And here I am asking Parliament a question: from the legal point of view it is clear that the Government is right: the sanction that puts at the offset between government forecasts and forecasts of the Parliamentary Budget Office the budget law is that the Government must come and explain whether it intends to confirm its forecast or not. The government came and confirmed it. This, in the relations between the Government and the Parliamentary Budget Office, is correct. But what do we do in Parliament? The Parliamentary Bureau of the Budget is the Office which estimates for Parliament, vis-à-vis the Government, the parameters it must estimate. Here there is a significant difference, because the government has gone above all prediction parameters. The Government confirms and we Parliament say nothing, so it can be said that, well, the Parliamentary Budget Office has spoken, and we are moving forward. That is not the case, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Azzollini. Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). I think that this evening Parliament, in the face of this imbalance (which is absolutely compatible in legal terms, but not in political terms), can only anticipate an initiative of mistrust towards the Government as soon as possible, because of the obvious lack of reliability of the data that it has proposed to us this evening. That is why we shall vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 7, signed by Senator Paolo Romani, and we shall vote against the other motions for resolutions. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u72	SANTINI (PD). Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote with conviction for the adoption of its motions for resolutions on the Update Note to the DEF. He will do so firmly in order to strengthen the growth of our economy in this country, which - as we all know, even if this has been ignored in the debate by many colleagues - has suffered in this difficult 2016 from a slowdown at an international level very showy. We approve it in order to strongly support the growth forecast of one per cent, which at the same time represents an ambitious objective and a credible parameter, through strong and convinced support for this growth. On this point, on which many speakers have spoken, I would like to add that this objective, on which we have discussed a great deal in the Joint Committees of the House and the Senate with the Minister of Economic Affairs, Padoan, has been valuable the work of the Parliamentary Bureau of Budget, which has allowed, with its objections, to deepen very seriously with the Minister the policies, modalities and motivations of this objective of growth. So we can say that now, after these reflections, this objective is definitely an objective to aim for, but also an objective that is underpinned by important and significant policies that will accompany it, which are foreseen in the Update Note to the DEF and which will be even more strongly explained in budgetary policy. In this regard, I do not want to take away from the fact that in the two resolutions that we are tabling we authorize the Government to ask for up to 0.4 percent of the deficit increase, compared to 0.2 which was programmed in the Update Note to the DEF; and I am very sorry that Senator Azzollini has a little superficially ironic about this. It is not, in fact, as the senator says, a matter of liquid politics: unfortunately migrants and the earthquake are not two liquid events, but they are two very concrete events that our country has to face every day and for which we rightly ask and fight in Europe to have the opportunity to make interventions [[Applause from the PD Group]] So from the sum of the two arguments we have made in depth in the Commission - that is, concrete policies in support of the 1% deficit increase target and as much concrete needs to support the 0.4% demand - this forecast arises. But let's see what these concrete policies are. I do not believe that they are dreams, superficiality, new mistakes or, worse still, futile bonuses: they are very precise policies, among other things detailed in the quantities with the notes presented by the Government during the debate in the Commissions. We can, therefore, pick them up quickly, asking ourselves, if they were not there, what this Parliament and the country would say. I believe, for example, that it is true that the country is struggling to develop an adequate relationship between investment and its gross domestic product. Therefore, exactly, with a wealth of tools, we intervene in the Update Note to the DEF (and then in the Budget Act) to give strong support to public and private investment. As far as public investment is concerned, it seems to me that a plan of prevention and security of the country in view of the events of failure, seismicity and what is connected to this is absolutely necessary and in fact is foreseen. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It seems to me that there is a need above all to secure public buildings. Some of my colleagues have been ironic about some school that unfortunately collapses. You should ask, having been in the government for ten or fifteen years previously, since schools collapse now, if someone should have done before those interventions that we have been doing for years in the country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Comments from FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups]] On this, please, at least on this, we have the high head not to say serious inaccuracies, even morally censorable in my opinion. There are, then, infrastructure, on which in recent years a program of interventions has been organized, whose investments will now have to be strengthened, as shows also the adhesion to the Junker plan by Italy, which is one of the best countries. We know that it is difficult, but precisely because it is difficult we must be more convinced in doing so. Do we want to talk about private investment, business, the need for innovation, depreciation and over-immortization, the credit guarantee fund that, contrary to what is said (read the notes that are written), contains an investment that also affects individual enterprises and intervenes on corporate income, for small and very small enterprises? [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Di Maggio]] This is the concreteness on which we want to measure ourselves. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The full use of European funds was then recalled, after ever complicated and complex experiences, with a capacity, through the masterplan, to make targeted interventions on the territory, which must certainly be strengthened and better organised, but which go in the right direction. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish it, Senator. SANTINI (PD). I will finish quickly by saying that the Update Note to the DEF and the Budget Act are also trying to keep together another element (on which I can stretch little, leaving the text of my speech to the record): they combine support for growth, investment, innovation, research with a structured and serious plan of social protection, based on support for work, the fight against poverty and support for the family, courageously addressing the issue of welfare, which has been called for by many in recent years and which is now being addressed in concrete terms. On these points, together with others, I believe that we must have the ability to say - and for this reason we vote firmly in favour of our resolutions on the DEF Update Note - that the whole of these interventions do not constitute a country that wants to look back, that does not believe what it can do, but a country that builds stubbornly also the cohesion between generations, between young people and the elderly because it believes that we can build a future of cohesion, growth, greater development and greater well-being for all. [[Live applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC.]] [[Congratulations. Comments from FI-PdL XVII, M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u73	We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution on the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012. I would warn you that an absolute majority of the members of the Assembly is required for this resolution. Therefore, the vote on the motion for a resolution will take place by electronic means by simultaneous ballot. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the motion for a resolution No 100 (text 2), tabled by Senators Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller, to the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]] We move on to motion for a resolution No 2 to the DEF Update Note, accepted by the Government, on which an amendment has been tabled which I would ask the presenter to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u74	Mr President, this motion for a resolution is an enlarged summary of all the promises that the President-in-Office of the Council is making in order to have the 'yes' on constitutional reform: to disable in the next budgetary maneuver the safeguard clauses, anti-seismic adjustment interventions, super depreciation (which I am not aware of), to strengthen the detaxation, the measures for Trentino-Alto Adige, the masterplan for the Mezzogiorno, retirement, poverty, family burdens, the health fund, all human skiing. Of course, the resolution contains nothing but the first point that I intend to replace with my amendment. How is the first point synthesized? In practice, it commits the Government to passing all the public accounts and then to sending the budget to that country. I therefore ask that the Government undertake to make the estimates provided compatible with the comments of the UPB which will have to provide for the subsequent validation of the data provided, as required by European and national legislation, in order to ensure full compliance with all the parameters of constitutionality. I say this, Mr President, because you should also be concerned about whether or not you approve a constitutional document. I remind myself of the first paragraph of Article 117 of the Constitution, which we do not like and would have already repealed or replaced, but unfortunately there is and will be even if the future Constitution should be approved, reads: "Legislative power is exercised by the State and the Regions in accordance with the Constitution, as well as the constraints arising from Community law" (which is what I frankly would have abolished). What does Community law provide for? Regulation 463/2013 of the European Union requires that the macroeconomic forecasts on which the stability programme is based be validated by an independent national institution, namely the parliamentary budgetary office. [[Brusio.]] Colleagues don't give a damn about the Constitution. In fact, I see them very little engaged in the "no" campaign, but it doesn't matter. [[Applause from Senator Crosio]] The Independent National Authority shall be recognised in the Parliamentary Bureau of the Budget, on the basis of the Protocol of Understanding between it and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance of 15 September 2014. President, if the legislation and the constraints resulting from membership of the European Union make sense, since there is a regulation that falls within these constraints, which is provided for in the Constitution, since the UPB has been established by a strengthened law (so it is not enough just a decision of Parliament, but an absolute majority is required), with my amendment I ask: dear Government, make your estimates compatible so that they can be validated by the Parliamentary Bureau of the Budget. If we do not want this, we are already saying that we do not want to comply with the requests and comments that the Office has made and therefore we intend to pass the public accounts and do something unconstitutional. Then I am sure that, being the "dude" the first point of the commitments, no one will be able to vote yes to the amendment, but I want Parliament to certify with this vote that the proposal is unconstitutional and that the state's accounts are being overwhelmed and "brained" with the will of the majority and the government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Caliendo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u75	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u76	I am against Amendment 2.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u77	Mr President, the proposal is a good one. Of course, Senator Calderoli proposed replacing in the resolution the only paragraph that makes this resolution the one provided for in our regulations and regulations, so that the Government, adopted this resolution by Parliament, can prepare the budget law. If I said yes to this proposal, the government would not know what the financial and programmatic boundaries of the budget law are. The Government is therefore opposed to amendment 2.1. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic applause from Senator Calderoli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u78	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.1 tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall therefore proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 2. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senators Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Motions for resolutions No 1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, No 5, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other Senators, No 6, tabled by Senator Bulgarelli and other Senators, and No 7, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other Senators are therefore excluded. The review of the Update Note is thus concluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u81	Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). Mr President, today is 12 October 2016 and it should have been assigned the bill n. 2518, which bears my first signature and that of several colleagues, which makes the choice of our country definitive with respect to Mameli's anthem as a national anthem. It is exactly seventy years since 12 October 1946 when the Council of Ministers with Alcide De Gasperi decided that this should be the national anthem, albeit provisionally. So we've been waiting seventy years to make this choice. Many in the meantime have been the measures put forward. Even now we have speculated on this proposal both to the House and to the Senate, because I think the seventy years of the Republic deserve to finally see a final decision on this anthem. There are of course some historical reasons, but it must be recognized to Goffredo Mameli and Michele Novaro that "Brothers of Italy", if it has arrived here (next year it will be one hundred and seventy years from its composition), it is obviously because it has loaded itself with a meaning and is a symbol and a quote of all our people and of our country. So the proposal is there and I believe that there is also the will, on this 70th anniversary of the Republic, to be able to dedicate to the President emeritus of the Republic Carlo Azeglio Ciampi this gesture that we can make this year (if we then pass, we can do it next year on the occasion of the one hundred and seventy years since its composition). I conclude with a thank you to Goffredo Mameli, who died twenty-two years old just to give us in the Risorgimento battles a united Italy and then to go along with us Republican Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Liuzzi and Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u82	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-699.ana.u83	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 13 October, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.14 p.m.
