ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u3	The next item is questions and questions. The first step will be to consult 2-00348 on a more incisive action by the Italian Government to safeguard the founding principles of the European Union. I call Senator Campanella to illustrate this interrogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u4	Mr President, we note that there are continual exchanges of controversy between the President of the Council of Ministers and the institutions of the European Union. There is an increasing impression that the Italian Government lacks a strong strategy and that it lacks the ability to pursue a clear and accomplished European plan, in the face of an objectively compromised economic situation and a propensity for increasing anti-European drives in our country. We believe that politics cannot abdicate its role, leaving room for collective impulses and fears or, worse, slipping into populism. Now, the Government's insistence on the European Commission for further flexibility seems to show an intrinsic weakness and shortness of breath, very similar to the demands made by the fourth Berlusconi Government in 2011. This is a policy that aims only at obtaining national advantages, which are often used in electoral terms (I think of the 80 euros and the cancellation of the TASI). Europe should probably be forced to respect the Commission's commitment to an investment growth policy, with major joint projects that can fly, while creating scope for further shared flexibility on budgets. The so-called austerity party is being fought by creating a reformist front against conservatives, widening European understandings for shared decisions on major issues such as immigration and growth. The answer cannot be a mere and simple fallback on the defence of national policies, claiming more room for national budgetary policies, but the deployment of a vast aggregate action and conquest of consensus to make a leap forward in integration: to support the many factors already integrated in Europe, the most important and not yet integrated, the policy, which, through new and courageous choices, can overcome narrow and restrictive visions, such as austerity and recessionary budgetary policies. The main way to affirm this broad vision cannot but consist in soliciting investment projects at European level, financed with resources from the Union budget, or by resorting to the market for extraordinary works (think of the situation of hydrogeological failure in our country, which is the origin of continuous disasters and tragedies), works necessary also to face new factors, such as immigration. In view of the risks of loosening the unitary constraints that have occasionally characterized European integration (think of the issue of the so-called Brexit, but also the doubts about the application of the Schengen Treaty), it would be important to point to a proposal addressed to all the countries of the euro area, especially in those countries where particular needs for greater integration are manifested. That is why we would like to hear from the President of the Council of Ministers whether he does not think it necessary to inform Parliament about the current situation in Europe and its position in relation to a reconsideration of the establishment of the Treaties, not only by forcing them and putting pressure on them to achieve greater flexibility, but by reinterpreting them in a more expansive way: that of an expansionary economic policy of the Union and more aimed at improving the conditions of the European people rather than the conditions of the budgets. We run the risk that by reducing the flexibility of the budget, we will increase the flexibility of people's lives, making them become precarious in everything.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u5	The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u6	Mr President, Senator Campanella has asked a number of questions, the first of which, in the final part of his questioning, concerns information and the need to ensure a debate in Parliament with the Government, the President of the Council and all the members of the Government, on European policy. That's what we do regularly, Senator Campanella, since the beginning of this government's mandate. We have fully implemented all aspects of Law No 234 of 2012, which regulates relations in the field of European policy between the Government and Parliament. We regularly inform Parliament, in the person of the President of the Council, about the European policy choices of Italy before each European Council; we do so later, through the presence of myself and other members of the Government; we give systematic information through numerous hearings of the various members of the Government in the field of European policy; we transmit in a timely manner the planning and final relations of European policy of the Government and we give a timely communication on all the infringement procedures required by Parliament. So I don't think, objectively, that if anything is missing, this is information. Parliament is fully informed of the government's European policy and has ample opportunity for debate. The second aspect that you raised today - there are others in your questioning - is the subject of the Treaties. We have never made a mystery that we want to use all the instruments existing in the European Treaties first and foremost to move towards the development of policies in the interests of Italy and Europe on issues that are priority for the Italian agenda and the European agenda: immigration policy, security policy and economic policy. On this we have long passed the taboo and the fear of talking about revision of the treaties. If the conditions were fulfilled, and I think it is more likely to think that they can be achieved in 2017, after the general elections in important Member States, in order to have not only a full implementation of the Treaties to be read in the light of the new priorities, but also a revision of the Treaties (a taboo that Renzi Government has passed for a long time), we will certainly be ready to do our part. But we do not want to wait; we want to work to create a genuine transnational debate and develop European policies, obviously in the light of the Renzi Government's choices, but in the interest of advancing political integration across Europe. That is why, in agreement with the three current rotating Presidencies (Dutch, Slovak in the second half of this year and Maltese in the first half of next year), we launched a transnational debate in several Member States, with the participation of Members of Parliament and the Governments of the Member States, to prepare a major meeting. That of the 60 years of the Treaty of Rome, next year, we would like it to be a great appointment not only historical and celebratory, but also political. For us it should be the beginning of a real, new phase of political integration, which must be seen in the policy of growth, the fight against unemployment, immigration and the fundamental rights of the rule of law, the three pillars of relaunching. Finally, you, in the interrogation and in particular in today's intervention, invited the Government to take action to get out of the political failures of austerity. If there is a government that over the last two years has strongly called into question austerity policies, and with force, but without rupture, with the strength of ideas, reforms and politics, it has carried forward an alternative vision of the economic policies of the euro zone, this - let me say - is precisely the Italian Government. And the same flexibility, which had an important moment just yesterday - the recommendations addressed to Italy as well as to other countries of the European Commission do nothing but confirm the strategy of the Italian Government - is not an exception made to Italy, but an application to the whole euro area, in a smarter way, i.e. more favourable to growth, employment and investment, common rules. So it is a work that we have done on the basis of national choices, but which benefits, with this much more open approach, the whole euro area and which seems to us to have had another moment of positive dialogue yesterday. I see no tension between us and the European Commission, as you have mentioned today. We have entered a very constructive phase of dialogue and I believe that yesterday's decision on the Italian Stability Act, the European Commission's proposals on the revision of the Dublin rules and on the creation of a European police force at the external borders, the very positive reception by the European Commission and other governments of the European Union of the Italian proposal on immigration and relations between Europe and Africa (immigration compact), which has an investment and development component and a component of cooperation on immigration, show that we are not only at a stage of constructive dialogue, but also very proactive by the Italian Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u9	Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, Mr Secretary-General, thank you for your kindness. I am not satisfied with the answer because, in the face of a series of statements that actually follow what you have said, there is a talk of substance. I'll explain. I do not think that an attitude of increasing flexibility in the current situation from the point of view of the Treaties is sufficient; rather, we need an alliance with countries that are defined as peripheral to the Union. I am thinking of Greece: I remember when she found herself in the negotiations between Tsipras and the Commission, between Tsipras and the countries of Central Europe. It would have been desirable for Italy to have an attitude of greater solidarity, which would certainly have been useful to both Greece and Italy As regards the possibility of greater flexibility in the use of the budget and the availability of 14 billion more, I note that, for the commitments undertaken at the same time by our Government, these funds will be used no longer to increase taxes in the coming years considering the most stringent commitments that Italy has made for 2017. The government struggles hard to fight within a sort of cage that tries to force in some way, but using the funds in a questionable way, but my political vision is different from yours. The strong point is that we would need more courageous action towards that part of Europe that is self-defined as virtuous and which, perhaps, is not, even in the management of its budgetary policies. Germany has maintained for many years a surplus that is contrary to European rules, but no one has made it pay or made it look at it clearly. What I would like from the Italian Government is an attitude, on the one hand, more clear and courageous with regard to the Treaties and, on the other hand, of greater solidarity with those countries that are put a bit worse than us, such as Greece, but which have a type of problems similar to ours than the politics of the countries of Mitteleuropa.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u10	The following are questions 3-02697, 3-028661 and 3-02862 on certain decisions of the European Commission concerning the recovery of unlawful State aid. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u11	Mr President, before I give an analysis of the individual cases of recovery raised by the interrogators, I would like to point out some aspects relating primarily to the role of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and the Department of European Policy which is responsible for coordinating and monitoring state aid, including the preparation of quarterly reports on formal investigation procedures and recovery, while individual public administrations - whether ministries, regions or local authorities - are responsible for the aid granted and any recovery. In order to enable the aiding authorities to acquire information and data on the list of recipients of incompatible aid which they must return and also to avoid the granting of new aid, the European Policy Department has prepared and published on its website a list of decisions providing for the recovery of individual State aid. I am pleased to respond to future appeals for more general information. I invite you regularly, even every day if you want, to consult the website that we have prepared. In addition, as regards the list of undertakings concerned by the decisions on the recovery of the State aid scheme, the Department of European Policies made it accessible, subject to a request from the State aid-granting administrations to be submitted to the JEP guidelines of the individual administrations managing the recovery of the aid. The same shall always be published on the same site as mentioned above from 31 December 2015. The data contained in the list - which allows to verify in the investigation for the granting of new aid the position of the beneficiaries who must return the illegal and incompatible aid - will be incorporated in a new National Register of aid that will be operational from January 2017. With specific reference to the cases you have mentioned, I would like to point out that the competent administrations, always in accordance with European legislation and Law No 234 of 2012, have put in place all the necessary actions for the recovery. The existence of cases for which enforcement procedures could not be carried out with an immediate nature is due to the presence of multiple disputes pending in the various degrees of judgment. The information on the measures taken by individual administrations for the recovery of unlawful and incompatible State aid for which the European Commission ordered recovery is therefore provided below, by its own decision. I would like to stress that the exact quantification of the sums which must be considered recovered is, however, always - it is the State aid framework - subject to the final assessment of the European Commission. Therefore, the data provided below cannot be considered definitive before a formal feedback received from the European Commission. Mr President, I have a long list of state aid. Can I quote them and then file my answer? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, sure. In the event, the Presidency will inform you of the time you have left to conclude your speech. , State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. The first theme is the tax relief for companies located in Venice and Chioggia. The total amount owed to companies on 1 March 2016 was quantified at 36,353,832,93 as a share capital and at 67,113,253,62 as a compound interest. With regard to the fortune capital has been recovered approximately 20 million euros. With regard to the measure relating to the interest to be applied (simple or compound rate), the Council of State has reserved any decision on the matter, referring to a subsequent hearing, for which, however, the decision to fix it has not yet been taken. It is therefore awaiting such a pronunciation, in order to know the exact extent of the interests to be applied. The second case that the interrogators raised is the so-called Employment Treu Package case. At the date of 1 March 2016, taking into account also the assessments made in our interview with the European Commission regarding the progress we have made, like Italy, in the recovery activity, the companies considered sanctionable are 158, with an amount to be recovered (capital increase) equal to 40,414,769,49 euros, compared to the original about 331 million euros. Again, the non-immediate execution derives from the non-definition of appeals pending in Cassation. The third case concerns ex-municipalized companies. The total amount subject to recovery is approximately €770 million in share capital. On 27 February 2012, in view of the large sums recovered, the European Commission formally suspended the decision to refer Italy to the Court of Justice under Article 260 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. At the date of 27 April 2016, the amount still to be recovered is EUR 1,877,451,12 as capital, beyond the Community interest to be redetermined at the date of actual payment. It follows that, at that date, 99.6 percent of the aid initially to be recovered was recovered. The residual recovery depends on a dispute as to the type of interest to be applied (simple or compound). Therefore, it remains pending the relevant decisions, in order to know the extent of the interest to be applied. The fourth case concerns Euroalumina. Eurallumina is recovering the aid received, albeit to a partial extent. The data will have to be provided by the Customs Agency, which is responsible for recovery. The company itself brought two actions before the TAR Sardegna for annulment, subject to suspension of the acts of revocation of installment and notice of payment. The hearing for the examination of the appeal on the suspension is scheduled for 13 July 2016. The fifth case relates to the extension of the Tremonti-a law. The recovery procedure concerned both those who received the aid in accordance with the so-called "beneficiaries' national law and those who benefited from the aid in breach of the same domestic legislation as the "evasors'. With regard to "beneficiaries," the recovery was completed in 2014. Compared to the "evasors', on 27 April 2016, according to the competent authorities for recovery, proceedings were collected and defined for approximately 20 million euros and are currently in progress procedures for co-active collection against 4 residual positions for 399.545.74 euros as capital. The sixth case concerns Sardinian Regional Law No 9 of 1998. The recovery concerns the hotel sector and, at the date of 21 April 2016, is ongoing. It shall be carried out, in close liaison with the European Commission, in accordance with a recovery plan with payments to be made by October 2016. Nine companies have actually joined this payment plan. For some of those who did not accede to the recovery plan, the enforcement procedure was initiated. One enterprise has been foreclosed, and another has been declared bankrupt. The seventh case is that of Sardinia Ferries: the amount of the aid to be recovered in this case amounts to 2.1 million euros (share capital). There are two parties to the refund of the aid, respectively 90 and 10 per cent. Both beneficiaries have established a dispute over recovery. Following the rejection of their requests on 7 February 2016, Equitalia, responsible for the co-active collection, initiated the enforcement procedures. On 24 March 2016, the collection agency has already notified one of the two beneficiaries (90 per cent) and is notifying the second (1 per cent) of the accounts. The eighth case concerns SACE BT: the aid to be recovered concerns two recapitalizations to SACE BT, amounting to EUR 29 and 41 million, respectively. In execution of the recovery obligations, the decree of the Minister of Economy and Finance No 16003 of 3 August 2015 was issued for the recovery of the State aid measures. In this respect, SACE BT SpA provided information to demonstrate, inter alia, that the State aid had been recovered. The ninth case is Sea Handling: The European Commission has ordered Italy to recover the aid, amounting to 359,644 million capital, in qualifying all the contributions made by Sea SpA to Sea Handling as unlawful State aid incompatible with the internal market. For the purposes of recovery, given that the granting of the aid is indisputably imputable to the Municipality of Milan, the latter is the national authority which must adopt the administrative procedures necessary to ensure the implementation of the decision. In response to this decision, Sea Handling and the City of Milan brought an action - still pending - before the competent European court. In the more of the recovery the procedure of liquidation of the company Sea Handling and the formation of a new subject (Airport Handling) has been started. The European Commission adopted on 9 July 2014 a decision initiating a formal investigation, in which it raised doubts that the liquidation of Sea Handling and the simultaneous creation of Airport Handling could constitute a failure to implement its 2012 recovery decision. The final decision, to be adopted by the European Commission, will clarify whether Airport Handling is related to economic discontinuity with Sea Handling now placed in liquidation - in which case, of course, there would be no question of State aid - and therefore whether the obligation to return Sea Handling has transferred to Airport Handling or not. This obviously depends on the assessment of the economic discontinuity that the European Commission will give, in the light of the information received. The 10th case relates to countervailable: the Commission's decision concerned compensation for public service obligations granted (EUR 10 million) and recapitalisation of the recapitalisation of the recapitalisation of the recapitalisation of the recapitalisation of the recapitalisation of the recapitalisation of the recapitalisation of the recapitalisation of the recapitalisation of the recapitalisation of the recapitalisation of the recapitalisation of the recapitalisation of the recapitalisation of the recapitalisation of the recapitalisation of the recapitalisation of the recapitalisation of the On 1 July 2014, the Commission brought an action for an agreed estimate to allow the disposal of the entire business complex and the satisfaction with the proceeds of third parties creditors. The concordat procedure has previewed the sale of the assets from the judicial founders, that it has concluded with the award of the naval fleet. After the sale of the vessel and the end of the cabotage activities, the curator will have to bring together the Committee of the creditors and indicate the amount that can be actually recovered, and then proceed to the liquidation. The eleventh and penultimate case, President, raised by the interrogators, concerns CSTP and Buonotourist, both within the competence of the Campania Region. In implementation of the decision of the European Commission of 19 November 2015, on 18 March 2016, the Region of Campania, which is responsible for recovery, ordered CSTP to return the amount relating to the unlawful State aid. Following the non-payment within the time limit, the procedure for the co-active collection through Equitalia was activated, which notified the debitory folder. The Buonotourist Srl appealed to the Campania Regional Administrative Court, which ordered the suspension of the co-active collection procedure. Following the decision of the TAR, in September 2015, the State Council rejected the suspension and, therefore, the Region reactivated the collection procedure, which is currently under way. The last two cases relate to tax and contributory benefits in Abruzzo and tax advantages to compensate for the damage caused by the earthquake in Sicily and other natural disasters. By its decision of 14 August 2015 on State aid cases SA.33083 and SA.35083 concerning the tax, social security and insurance benefits granted to companies located in areas affected by natural disasters in Italy between 1990 and 2009, the European Commission requested full recovery of the aid granted following the earthquake in Abruzzo in 2009, but only due to the overcompensation of the damage and for amounts exceeding EUR 200,000. With reference to the other calamitous events dating back time, the recovery concerns only companies, where existing, that have benefited from the aid even if they have only legal and non-operational headquarters in the affected areas. Therefore, all companies which had their headquarters in addition to their legal headquarters in the affected areas are not subject to the repayment of aid. Operations aimed at recovery fall within the competence of the Ministry of Economics and Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The amount of the amounts to be recovered will be determined as a result of the processing of data relating to the three types of benefits granted to each beneficiary only to the extent of the possible overcompensation of the damage suffered and, of course, remaining the threshold of 200,000 euros already indicated.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u14	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Gozi for pointing out - which is not easy - the thirteen requests he has made. I was wondering why we have to take so long to carry out these tasks. You, Undersecretary Gozi, partly answered me. There are judgments of the Court of Cassation and the Council of State and, not least, the final feedback of the European Commission. I also wondered how much these delays cost us and these missed recovery. You, Undersecretary Gozi, said that the procedure has changed and in January we will see. When I received the data, these were visible, while now on the site there are points of contact and, therefore, it begins to be difficult to find this information. We will see how in January it will be easier to check and see the table on the site you have kindly quoted. In my question, I mentioned cases starting from 1999, going through 2004, until 2014. I say to you, incidentally, that to date we have the beauty of 62 cases of infringement proceedings for infringement of European Union law. How much do we spend? A fortune. Let me give you an example of who will read the session shorthand or follow us from home. In 2010, the Commission referred Italy to the Court of Justice of the European Union for failing to implement its decision ordering the recovery of unlawful and incompatible State aid from public service undertakings with prevailing public capital. In that case, we paid a penalty of 65,280 euros (it seems nothing, but the figure is for every day of delay) and the beauty of 7,140 euros (always daily) for the period between the 2006 judgment and the second judgment of the Court of Justice. I say this in order to get an idea of how much the missed fulfillments cost us. Yet, as early as 2007, the Commission reported on best practices to ensure faster and more complete implementation of decisions, but we are never sheltered. I am a member of the Commission for Industry, Commerce and Tourism and I believe that you too, Mr Gozi, are aware of a document published a few weeks ago in the Official Journal of the European Union, signed by the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Commission. I would like to point out to you that in point 116 of a very long 19-page report, which these goddamn triggers have read all, there is a bridge loan of EUR 300 million granted to ILVA, paid for because it could constitute state aid. In Brussels, therefore, they have practically extended the investigation already opened a year ago on the package of public measures in favour of the ILVA group to a value of approximately 2 billion euros: the last 300 million euros lent to the company will therefore have to be returned by its buyers or tenants. I would point out, therefore, that the European Union's approach to the practice of Ilva does not seem very favourable. The Commission of the European Union has launched an in-depth investigation into whether the support we have given to ILVA complies with the State aid rules. Since there is a competition going on, I want to warn the various Arvedi, Marcegaglia, the Turks of Erdemir and especially Italian citizens, since inside there is Cassa depositi e loani, that those who win the contest risk having to repay any financing, if they will be considered state aid. I would therefore like to thank the Secretary-General for his reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u17	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, Mr Gozi, I had prepared a speech for the time allocated to me, but I believe that Mr Castaldi has summed up our position well. Mr Undersecretary, you were very timely and precise in your reply, but from the point of view of non-verbal communication you seemed almost satisfied with the work. I believe that we should not even get to these sanctions and disputes. We also see that only a few well-known companies benefit from state aid, which perhaps - as you said - we have recovered over the years, but it is also true that, in the meantime, the EUR 770 million, the EUR 37 million, the EUR 2 million, with penalties for every day of delay, it is the Italian citizens who pay them by subtracting them from those essential goods and services that could be provided without any difficulty, rather than facilitating companies, that are currently in difficulty and that the State thinks well to help, while knowing that it is breaking the law. I would therefore like to thank Mr Gozi for the punctuality of his reply: we will then read all the details of his report, which was very technical and we will go to "displace" the documents further.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u18	Following is the question 3-02178 on the service quarters of the prison agents "Two Palazzi" in Padua. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u19	Mr President, as you know, there are many initiatives and interventions by the Minister of Justice to innovate the prison system in its complexity, with a view to remedying the concept of execution of the sentence, with the aim of giving adequate conditions of dignity and livability not only to the restricted but also to the operators. In fact, ministerial decrees have been issued to close some institutes with characteristics no longer appropriate to the new prison model and has also continued the institutional activity aimed at the redevelopment and the valorization of the state property in government use to the penitentiary administration. In addition, following the early closure to 31 July 2014 of the Government's Special Commissioner for Prison Infrastructure, the Interministerial Joint Committee for Prison Building was reactivated, constituted by representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the Department of Infrastructure and Transport, with the intention of starting a programme to modify the prison plan, to update it to the changed framework of territorial needs with respect to the situation outlined in 2009 and to the different model of detention that is to be activated. It must be pointed out that, in this context, the competent Administration has already checked the structural conditions of the Padua prison house and to take action to adopt the most appropriate solutions. The Department of the penitentiary administration has reported, in this regard, that, following the inspection carried out at the end of October last year by the technical staff, the local providetorato has demanded the allocation of a sum of 1,500,000 euros, in order to arrange an intervention of restoration of the building finishes and the plants. Compatible with the resources allocated, it is the understanding of the penitentiary administration to include, in the programming of interventions for the next financial years, extraordinary maintenance work of a general nature, aimed at restoring the full functionality of the Padua penitentiary, in which the barracks attached to the institute would also be included. The barracks attached to the Padua Prison House is a ten-storey building, with 160 three- and two-seater rooms, each measuring 37 and 33 square meters and single rooms, with appropriate exclusive services. The rooms are all habitable, equipped with bathroom and suitable for the purpose to be used. With reference to the forecast of the payment of a fee for some housing units, the Department of the penitentiary administration reported that it is a mere contribution for the utilities, equal to the single room at 37,35 euros monthly, for the double room at 64,17 euros monthly and for triple room at 70,13 euros monthly. The aforementioned Administration has also specified that, in compliance with the directive of the Minister of Justice 31 October 2013, adopted pursuant to article 17, paragraph 1, letter d), of the legislative decree 30 March 2001, n. 165, a distinction has been made between overnight rooms of the barracks agents and housing for collective use pursuant to article 12, paragraph 3, of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 314 of 2006. For the former there is no obligation to pay any fee, as structures which are intended for purposes of overriding institutional interest, since they are instrumental in promoting the permanence of staff at the institutions themselves and which cannot be reserved for a particular occupier outside the days of actual use. For the other accommodations, on the other hand, since they are an exclusive use of the service collective spaces, a concession fee equal to a daily flat rate commensurate with the services or consumption only has been identified for the occupants. Such housing units can, therefore, be assigned exclusively to the personnel who request to have them for personal and continuous use, on payment of a flat-rate fee, which represents the consideration of the services associated with the normal use of the accommodation. However, the possible use of the same free of charge remains firm, where institutional and service needs are met.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u22	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, Undersecretary, I am not satisfied. You are telling me that the first steps were taken in the autumn of last summer, but restructuring will only take place in the coming financial years. There is a very serious situation: the prison police, which plays a delicate role, are really exhausted. They must ensure the safety of citizens, but also of prisoners; they must use force and respect the dignity of the person and, in this task, they are dramatically understaffed, while the prisoners are in conditions of overcrowding. According to the latest data, in Germany every 100 places there are 82 prisoners, in Spain 85, in England 97. In Italy every 100 places we have 108 prisoners, but the data are distorted by the fact that the estimates take into account the theoretical places but, net of ongoing restructuring, inagibility and maintenance, the real ones are still inferior. And if it is unworthy that the inmates are housed in dilapidated facilities, even though they have criminal responsibilities to serve, it is unacceptable that they are destined for dilapidated housing to those in these facilities who carry out a service for the nation. In the question that I put to you the situation of the prison "Two Palaces" is emblematic, however, of a systemic condition. Prison police officers are being hosted - it is being said, since they also have to pay - in totally inadequate facilities, with the result that some, many, choose to provide for themselves, with obvious inconveniences that are not only of an economic nature, because pay certainly does not cover the responsibility, the risks and the pressures endured, but also having to move far away, since the prison is outside the residential areas, increase the inconveniences of movement and it is not a purely private or personal matter. The immediate intervention of the agents in emergency situations must be considered as a priority. The possibility of staying at the facilities cannot be considered a privilege but an instrument serving the collective interest and for the Ministry should represent an ethical responsibility, an element of political credibility. A few kilometers from Padua, then emerges the scandalous story of the new penitentiary of Rovigo, cost 29 million euros and in fact not working. The barracks, the accommodations, the cafeteria for the agents are not working, there is a complete lack of services such as dealing, recreation rooms and gym and between Padua and Rovigo the prison agents are under 50 percent staff and therefore are forced to massacre shifts, sometimes under sanitary conditions not always optimal. Another case is the prison of Vicenza, where a few months ago the prison police unions denounced the presence of worms in the dishes served at the cafeteria. Here, too, in front of a capacity of 156 seats, the prisoners were 216 with the pavilion intended for the co-workers of justice overcrowded of twice as much as the actual capacity. I remember that the 5 Star Movement had presented three years ago a prison plan, at a much lower cost than the government program that is now having to rectify it. It would have made it possible to solve the problem of overcrowding without resorting to amnesties, indults or sanatories that offend the sense of justice of citizens. As often happens, we have been unheard of and today the situation that the prison police are experiencing is this: wasteful housing, massacred shifts, unpaid overtime and assaults suffered, because the number of prisoners is disproportionate to that of the agents. Then, you see, on the case of the prison in Padua it is not acceptable that the government relieves itself by saying that at the end of the day they pay little because we are talking about housing that, however, are not housing (they do not have the possibility to host even a friend or to receive a visit), they are accommodation strictly of service and then, at this point, they must also be totally free and dignified. I call on the Government to assess the situation without fear of admitting failure. It is a duty that the State has towards the honest citizens and that they pay the taxes and I ask for a prompt intervention, clear and urgent, to compensate for the malfunctioning of the prison in Padua and the other Venetian prison structures.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u23	There follows the questioning 2-00362 on the pink quotas in relation to the municipal elections. I call Senator Liuzzi to illustrate this interrogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u24	Mr President, Mr Bocci, my request is of an eminently technical nature, but the significance and value of democracy, for which I will also risk boredom, but it seems important to me to sum up the following: Article 2 (1) of Law 215 of 2012, has made significant changes to the single text relating to the local government system. In fact, it introduced the principle that both sexes are represented in the lists of candidates for the City Council. In the same lists, in municipalities with a population of between 5,000 and 15,000 inhabitants, neither of the sexes can be represented in more than two thirds of the candidates, with rounding up to the higher unit if the number of candidates of the sex less represented to be included in the list contains a decimal figure less than 50 cents. Similarly, with regard to the election of municipal councils in municipalities with a population of more than 15,000 inhabitants, neither of the sexes can be represented in the lists of candidates to a greater than two thirds, with rounding to the upper unit if the number of candidates of the sex less represented to be included in the list contains a decimal figure of less than 50 cents. These provisions aim to promote equality of men and women in access to elected positions, through a pre-established balance of candidates of both sexes in the local elections involving municipalities with a population of not less than 5,000 inhabitants. The literal content of the provisions makes it very clear that the maximum thresholds of two thirds and a minimum of one third, in the event that the related number contains a decimal number, are however determined by applying the mathematical rounding criterion. For example, in cases where the maximum number of candidates on a list corresponds to 16 (in municipalities with inhabitants above 10,000 and below 15,000), being two thirds equal to 10.66 and one third equal to 5.33, on the basis of the criterion, the result would lead to the division of applications representing the two sexes within the maximum and minimum limits, respectively, of 11 and 5. The Central Directorate of the electoral services of the Ministry of the Interior initially adopted this literal interpretation of the norm in Circular No. 30 of 2013. Since September 2014, however, it has suddenly changed its orientation, for having accepted an agenda of the Chamber of Deputies, precisely on 31 July 2014, in the part in which it undertook to amend, in accordance with the will expressed by the legislator in the course of the parliamentary work, aimed at promoting maximum gender representation, the interpretation provided in Circular No 30 of 2013, applying in the formation of the electoral lists the criterion of rounding up to the higher unit, instead of the criterion of arithmetic rounding. This change of direction was immediately incorporated in Ministerial Circular No. 37 of 13 September 2014 and announced to the mayors and presidents of the commissions and electoral sub-committees through appropriate prefectic communications. Moreover, the text of the aforementioned rules is so clear that it leaves no room for any interpretation doubts. And it is not by chance that the Ministry itself, in the initial phase, has properly adhered to a literal interpretation, and then overturned it only in the adoption of the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. These remarks are also confirmed by a recent decision of the TAR Campania, which put in strong question the last address received by the Ministry. The administrative court affirmed: "The reference, in fact, to a "rounding to the upper unit" in the hypothesis in which the "number of candidates of the sex less represented to be included in the list contains a decimal figure less than 50 cents" precludes at the root the possibility to support the applicability of the criterion of rounding to the upper unit, having to find application the criterion of arithmetic rounding, which, moreover, has always constituted the definite and objective parameter of reference. It constitutes the principle that the interpretation of the law is an operation which must be carried out according to criteria laid down in Article 12 of the pre-laws, with priority, therefore, of the criterion of literal interpretation; this with the consequence that the interpretation to be chosen cannot be that which is as close as possible to the literal meaning of the words, being precluded from the interpreter, if the normative text is not ambiguous, the use of several hermeneutical criteria. In the same way as the foregoing considerations, no value can be reconnected to the instructions for the submission and admission of applications, nor to the circular of the Ministry of Interior No 37 of 16 September 2014, resulting to the evidence obstructing the fundamental principles in relation to the hierarchy of sources. As correctly pointed out by the defence of the applicant party to the TAR, in fact, the circumstance that the Government has accepted an agenda discussed by the Chamber of Deputies in July 2014 with the commitment to modify the interpretation (...) applying in the formation of the electoral lists the criterion of rounding up to the higher unit, instead of the criterion (...) arithmetical is not, in itself, sufficient to determine any innovative effectiveness in the ordering, resulting in the necessary modification of the formulation of the provision under consideration. Given that the municipal elections are now imminent and it is necessary to clarify the issue, also in order to avoid uncertainties and disputes, Mr. Undersecretary Bocci, we ask you to clarify definitively the interpretative doubts emerged so far, reaffirming the full and literal application of article 2, paragraph 1, of the law 23 November 2012, n. 215, which introduced the amendments to articles 71 and 73 of the single text for local authorities. [[Applause from Senator Comrade]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u25	The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question that has been raised calls for definitive clarification of the interpretation of the provisions introduced by Law No 215 of 2012, which regulate the allocation of candidates representing the two sexes in the formation of electoral lists. The questioners consider that these provisions have accepted, for the calculation of the so-called pink quota, the criterion of arithmetic rounding, i.e. rounding to the nearest unit, and to the comfort of their orientation recall the judgment, as has been recalled, of the TAR Campania n. 2589 of 2015. Indeed, as mentioned in the questioning, at first the Ministry of the Interior, the Central Directorate of the electoral services, issued explanatory circular No. 30 of 2013, inspired precisely by the criterion of arithmetic rounding. Subsequently, however, the Government, as the questioner pointed out in the illustration, accepted an agenda of the Chamber of Deputies, exactly of 31 July 2014, undertaking to apply the different criterion, which is, as has been pointed out, the rounding up of the higher unity, in accordance with the will expressed by the legislator during the parliamentary work, aimed at promoting maximum gender representation. As a result, this administration has taken action to transpose the new orientation and has issued circular No 37 of 13 September 2014 - also mentioned in the interview - with which specific indications have been given regarding the admission of electoral lists in line with the new criterion for calculating the quotas of gender representation. In particular, it has been made clear that rounding up to the higher unit concerns, even in the case of a decimal number of less than 50 cents, the minimum number, as is known, of one third of the candidates of the less numerous genre in each list in the elections of the municipalities with at least 5,000 inhabitants. These various rounding arrangements apply both in municipalities with a population of between 5,000 and 15,000 inhabitants, and in those with a population of more than 15,000 inhabitants, without prejudice to the respective modalities of restoring the relationship between the genera on the list, within the competence of the committees and electoral sub-committees, provided for by law. So much said and going to answer the question contained in the act of inspection union, I think that, in the presence of the above-mentioned commitment of the Government, this administration will be able to consider the opportunity to change the current direction in the sense desired by the interrogating senators, that is, in the sense to adopt the different criterion of rounding up to the nearest unity, if a consistent legal orientation is formed and consolidated, within the Council of State.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u29	LIUZZI (CoR). Mr President, I am partially satisfied. I take note of the commitment of the Government, even in the blackberries of the Council of State, but I understand that on this matter the democratic functionality of the municipal councils, even in respect of the so-called pink quotas, has an absolute priority. Therefore, in reaffirming my partial satisfaction with the answer to my questioning, I consider it important that the Ministry, i.e. the Government, should give its opinion on this matter as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u30	The following are questions 3-02394 and 3-02860 on the strengthening of security guards in the province of Vibo Valentia. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senator Caridi, in stressing the importance of Vibo Valentia's prefecture as a legal garrison in a province full of problems in terms of public security and immigration, calls for its closure, provided for by a scheme of government regulations to reorganize the central and territorial structures of the Ministry of the Interior. The theme highlighted is particularly felt in the local public opinion, which gave rise to a strong mobilization which resulted in the autumn of last year in an event attended by citizens, local administrators and representatives of the trade union, associative and productive world of that Province. The Regional Council of Calabria has also dealt with the problem, unanimously approving a motion against the cutting of state garrisons in Vibonese territory. In this regard, I would like to point out immediately that the draft regulation in question belongs to a period of economic and financial rigour, as set out in Decree-Law No 95 of 2012, in which the spending review was rewarding all the rest of needs and needs. But now the direction taken is another. Not that the requirements for the containment of public expenditure have failed, but the Government has accepted the idea that the rationalization of the presence of the State on the territory must be inspired, on the one hand, by criteria of social sustainability and, on the other, must be accompanied by the valorization of the role of prefectures. This change of course is sealed in the so-called Madia law, which, while foreshadowing the reduction in the number of prefectures, on the basis of a series of objective indicators linked to the development of crime, the exposure to migratory flows and socio-economic dynamics in the territories of competence, strengthens its strategic function. This is attested by the fact that they will absorb all the peripheral offices of the State and will therefore be considered as the single points of contact between the State and the citizens. Moreover, the prefectures will continue to be the cornerstone of the territorial security system. It should also be noted that, on the basis of a provision of the 2016 Stability Act, the government regulation covering the two questions on the agenda will have to be adopted within one year from the date of entry into force of the legislative decree implementing the criteria for the delegation of the so-called Madia law. In essence, only after the approval - not yet given - of the latter decree will it be possible to put into practice the regulation on prefectures, taking into account all the arguments set out above. At the moment, therefore, no prefecture will be merged. On the content of the regulation for their reorganization, there will also be space for a serious and in-depth discussion with the local institutions, which takes into account the requests from the territory. I now assure you that the current peripheral articulation of the Ministry of the Interior, consisting of prefectures, police stations and peripheral structures of the National Firefighters Corps, will not be modified by the new order plan, in line with the model of territorial unity of the public security authorities and police forces referred to in Law No 121 of 1981, with favourable effects on the presence of security guards on the territory. One of the two questions also asks what action is being taken to strengthen the security guards and all police forces in the province of Vibo Valentia. In this regard, I represent that the device of the Forces of the order deployed in that territory comprises a total of 1,424 units. In this context, there are 406 members of the operational roles of the State Police, compared to an organic forecast of 297 units, with a supernumber of 109 operators, to which are added 18 members of the technical roles. In addition, 608 soldiers from the Carabinieri Arm and 392 soldiers from the Finance Guard are present. The equipment of the Carabinieri's weapon and the Finance Guard just mentioned has recently been increased and constitutes, at the moment, the maximum possible organizational effort for the two police forces, taking into account similar public security commitments throughout the national territory. I would add that, in order to optimize the use of territorial staff, the general prevention services are re-modulated from time to time during specific technical interforce meetings, on the basis of identified criticalities and according to specific strategies that always guarantee an adequate presence of operators of the Forces of the order on the territory. In addition, on the occasion of extraordinary services of general prevention, the territorial police device is supported by regional rates of the crime prevention departments of the State Police and the operating intervention companies of the Carabinieri weapon.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u34	CARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Undersecretary, I am reassured by the increase of the Forces of the Order to guard a difficult territory like that of Vibo Valentia and, in general, Calabrian. In the case of Vibo Valentia's prefecture, I wanted to highlight the difficulty of the many mayors and administrators and of the many enterprises that work daily in that territory. It also reassures me that you say that at the moment Vibo Valentia's prefecture will not be closed, but I want this guarantee for the future too. We cannot talk about abolition. Indeed, we must strengthen those territories that need security in order to give peace to economic operators and, above all, to citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u35	Question 3-02603 on the associated exercise of the fundamental functions by the Unions of Municipalities follows. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u36	Mr President, with the question on the agenda, Senator Gambaro, together with others, draws attention to the lack of representation that would have come to be determined in the communities of the former municipalities of Bazzano, Castello di Serravalle, Crespellano, Monteveglio and Savigno as a result of their merger in the new municipality of Valsamoggia. I would point out that the reunification of these municipalities in Bologna took place in the wake of a state and regional regulation that has long encouraged the creation of unification paths between municipalities, in order to achieve the simplification and rationalization of services with positive effects not only on public finances but above all on investments in the territories of competence. Moreover, the legislator has kept in mind how this type of operation carries with it the risk of a weakening of the territorial identity, providing, precisely in order to avoid such eventuality, modalities of involvement and participation of the communities that go to merge. I would also like to remind you that the fusion of the five municipalities is the result of a path of cultural and human aggregation, initiated for years by the communities of the aforementioned municipalities and other neighbors, which had already given rise to the union of the municipalities of the Rhine Valleys, Lavino and Samoggia. The Municipality of Valsamoggia was established, as of January 1, 2014, under Regional Law No. 1 of 2013, which entrusted to the statute the possible establishment of municipalities in the territories of the communities of origin or some of them. Taking this opportunity, the municipal statute of Valsamoggia provided for the establishment of municipalities, as bodies of participation representing the territories of the communities of origin, care for their interests, promote their development in the context of the unity of the municipality in question and undertake to protect the individual rights of persons, the environment and the territory of competence. In essence, it has been foreseen that in the territories of the former municipalities, alongside the organs of the new municipality, that is mayor, Junta and City Council, they operate the municipalities with functions of initiative, proposal, advice and supervision on the performance of the services and municipal activities of interest of the aforementioned communities. Organs of each of the five municipalities are the City Council and the President. The council is composed of ten persons elected by direct suffrage with proportional system, at the same time as the City Council. Given that there are five municipalities, the total number of members is 50. So much so, as for the resignation to which the interrogators refer, I point out that they have been resigned by 17 of the 18 councilors of minority town hall, belonging to the Civic List Samoggia. Following the resignation, the five Town Councils, having completed the surrogacy proceedings, took note, by their own deliberations, of the resignation of the appointment of city councilor by all candidates on the above list, except in Savigno, where the surrogacy of a resigned councilor occurred. The Municipality of Valsamoggia has communicated, that, at the end of the institutional events just described, the municipal councils continue to have a numerical composition so as to allow the smooth functioning of these institutions and the safeguard of the representation of the individual local communities. In fact, in each town hall there are more than half of the council members, in line with the provisions of the municipal regulations, in force since 14 August 2014, according to which the City Council meets validly when at least half of the council members are present. In order, however, to the need for a more detailed and specific regulatory discipline in the matter of the merger of Municipalities, aimed at safeguarding the requests of the individual communities, I note that, following the modification intervened with the so-called law Delrio (law n. 56 of 2014), it has been further specified that the statute of the Municipality resulting from fusion Parliament has therefore reserved the autonomy of the individual local authorities - with the exception of areas of state intervention - the identification of the ways in which to safeguard the profiles of identity and participation in those realities which, in the implementation of organizational rationalization, have renounced autonomous forms of municipal institutional presence.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u39	GAMBARO (AL-A (MpA)). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mr Bocci. Indeed, with his answer he has partially reassured us, regarding the doubts we had about this amalgamation of small municipalities, which apparently did not lead to optimal conditions. The reason why we have tabled this question is a double issue which poses a legal problem to be solved: on the one hand, there is the logic of the amalgamation between the municipalities, which must be identified in the right need for economic and administrative savings by making the management of municipal services efficient; on the other hand, there is the need to respect the needs of minorities, traditions and territorial individualities, as well as the right municipal representation, and therefore also political, of the same. I believe that the details you have given today are satisfactory, so we hope that the protection of minorities will also be taken into account in the forthcoming arrangements for small municipalities, which are certainly desirable.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u40	The questioning and questioning of the agenda is thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u41	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-631.ana.u42	The Senate will meet again at 4.30 p.m. on Tuesday 24 May, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 17.18.
