ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53032	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. The meaning of the International Red Cross, followed by the Croatian Red Cross, I don't think we should speak specifically, but it is necessary to specify a few key things. In the world, the country's cooperation with the competent Red Cross organization has been resolved in several ways. So one way was to create a contract of government states with the National Alliance of Red Crosses or the Red Crescent. The other way was a legal arrangement. In 2001, the Croatian Parliament determined that in the Republic of Croatia, a relationship with the international organisation at the state level was regulated by a law that had been passed and which had put the Croatian Red Cross in a situation of humanitarian organisation, a member of the International Red Cross from Geneva, which had been transferred from the Government not only to one part of the public authority but also to its tasks from seeking protection and rescue, aid to the endangered part of the population, the development of humanitarian rights and human rights of citizens. In 2005, an additional protocol introduced a new sign because members of the Red Cross worldwide, participating in humanitarian missions, which in other ways, were exposed depending on the type of mark of aggression. And we can remember something similar happened during the Homeland War when the Red Cross became a target for the aggressor. In this way, in the world of Israel’s initiative, one was adopted to unify, meaning the third sign of the Red Cross was a red crystal. It's a form of red rhombo on a white background, which is like that when used doesn't give a kind of, let's call it a religious orientation like that a cross and a half month. The important thing for the Republic of Croatia is that this sign can also be used by members of our mission, actually members of our army who participate in international missions such as that in Afghanistan. The reason for changing the law and the reason for the new law lies in a few things. First, a sign which is one of the key provisions and which should be applied as such after the adoption of this law, which is also the reason for the urgency of the procedure. However, there are several other things, so in the course of the harmonisation of the Republic of Croatia, some changes have taken place with the European Union, so tax laws have ceased to recognise certain institutions as institutions that are exempt from value added tax, services that are being released have already been introduced. In order for the Croatian Red Cross to continue its action in this humanitarian field in the same way as before the adoption of these tax regulations, this proposal changes the way and determines the services which, when the Croatian Red Cross or its 130 professional companies in Croatia do not belong to the Tax Law. The second situation is the situation of extra marks where in the weeks organized by the International Red Cross Organisation and where a certain part of the design is already separated from the stamps, Croatian postal services were stamped in Croatia. This law should extend this to all postal service operators who should participate equally in this. And what is crucial in the financing system so far is the role of the state in financing where the state budget for this year provides 3 million kuna for financing activities of the Croatian Red Cross and its companies. However, at the levels of local and regional self-government, this funding was not regular until now, so that out of 130 Red Cross companies, 53 alone managed to achieve some kind of funding by local and regional self-government, which was the subject for two particular reasons. The first reason is that the regulation that was passed in 2001 did not clearly distinguish how to finance, so in one paragraph of the law even states that it would stand out from 0.5 to 1.8% and that at the same time it was not said who singles out 0.5, who singles out 1.8 or who sets out, say, 1, what are the conditions. In such a way, it was simply an inapplicable provision, but also an alibi for those who were either unable or unable to do so because it was not defined as income, so all of them were considered as loans and various aids received by local and regional self-government, which clearly resulted in no charge. It is now in this proposal that this is resolved in a way that makes it clear, that obligations are clearly imposed, but that they are introduced for the first time then and criminal provisions for those who do not comply with their obligations to the Croatian Red Cross with the regional and local self-government. Why is it so crucial and important? So here we just have to remember the last catastrophic earthquake in Mexico where again the assistance of the Republic of Croatia, which passed on its public authority to the Red Cross, went through the Red Cross where, specifically then, the search for whether there were injured and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia were again entrusted to the International Red Cross and the Croatian Red Cross. And also in case it happens in Croatia, we must be prepared for such situations as we were during the Homeland War when the Croatian Red Cross through the International Red Cross did a very humanitarian part of the work precisely in the search, in the protection or attempt to protect and rescue Croatian citizens. Any further question can be answered during the debate, and for the opening part here I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53033	Thank you. The committee's reporters will? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Care, the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53034	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As a parent body, the Committee discussed the proposal for a law on the Croatian Red Cross. In his opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that, compared to the current Law on the Croatian Red Cross, the quality and precision of this organisation's humanitarian activities, its structure, its public authority, its overall action and its financing were more precise. In the broad discussion, the role of the Croatian Red Cross in the Homeland War and the Paradise is particularly important, its action in addressing humanitarian goals in peace, protection and improvement of health, social care. During the debate, he expressed concern that the application of Articles 30(2) and 3 will significantly reduce financial support to the Croatian Red Cross at the level of ensuring the income of units of local and regional (regional) self-government and that the functioning and implementation of already established and agreed programmes will be questioned. This article reduces the level of separation of units of local and regional (regional) self-government compared to the existing previous law and therefore the Committee has decided to propose an amendment. The new legislative proposal solves the emerging problem of providing accommodation and nutrition services to those who need it for health, social and other reasons, for members of the Croatian Red Cross. These services, through the adoption of the Household Activity Act and the Tourism Service Act, because of the new provisions in these laws, the Croatian Red Cross could not carry out these activities because it would be in breach regardless of what it does as a non-profit organisation and without obtaining profits. Due to these problems, the Committee proposes two amendments which have been adopted unanimously on the Committee. The amendment is one in line with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and reads: "Article 10(1) is amended and reads as follows: "They organise and carry goods for humanitarian and other purposes, transport of persons with disabilities, chronic patients, old and powerless, and persons with physical and mental impairment, voluntary blood donors and members of the Red Cross." Explanation. The text of the law thus complies with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The second amendment is content. It relates to the Red Cross funding and is consistent with the Proposer. Article 30(3) adds a new paragraph 4 which reads as follows: "Croatian Red Cross and its structural forms under the means referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article may also acquire other financial resources of the units of local and regional self-government in accordance with the contract with the unit of local or regional (regional) self-government. Explanation. The proposed amendment allows the Croatian Red Cross and its design forms, with the means set out in Article 30, to acquire other units of local or regional (regional) self-government in accordance with the contract with that unit. We have proposed this amendment because the Croatian Red Cross has so far implemented certain social programmes for some counties, cities and municipalities and this amendment allows it to continue, but of course on the basis of a special contract. That's why we're asking these amendments to the vote to be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53035	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go. Prior to that, the Environment Protection Committee will hold a session today at 10:30 in the Chamber of Stjepan Radić 133. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53036	Your Honor, Mr. President, I don't see a proposing representative. The Croatian Red Cross on every occasion, even in this one deserves to repeat some of the general places at first sight. Because it is an organization that is almost irreplaceable in many and also in Croatian society, including in Croatian history of burdensome wars, hunger, poverty, social problems that we have not yet come out of. Happy is a society where the Red Cross or the Red Crescent doesn't have much work to do. Unfortunately, there are few such societies, so Croatian too, where the value of reliability and the social benefits of the Croatian Red Cross had to be tested too many times, but each time it tested. It happened that the Croatian Red Cross between the national associations of the Red Cross and the Red Crescent was in line with those rare, rare organizations that had to act directly and in war conditions. The role of the Croatian Red Cross in the Homeland War is so great and it is such that it should never be skipped without ever forgetting. The Croatian Red Cross is made up of living people, enthusiasts, but also numerous professionals who in many situations have shown not only that human life is above all, but that human dignity is also extremely important and that it can and must be done everything to show social solidarity to those who do not, to those who cannot, to those who are unhappy or to those who are in need. The tradition of humanitarian action in the Republic of Croatia is indeed long. The Croatian Red Cross, unfortunately, has always been subject to political influences, as such a position has been intended for it in the last 60 years. By its very nature, they have one surplus of democratic, democratic process deficits and it is also subject to political influences. So it was in socialism, as it was in socialism, so unfortunately today. The Croatian Red Cross, regardless of what its action is based on a special law, so the one we're talking about today, has no high autonomy, and is dependent on political will and on the goodwill of political authorities. This is also seen in the case of financing the activities of the Croatian Red Cross and its local, municipal, urban, county societies. The facts suggest that the current legal provision that bound the units of local and regional self-government to finance the work of the Croatian Red Cross was necessary for ignoring or for abuses, so that only some, perhaps even one week of the total number of municipalities, cities and counties, in what way they satisfactorily monitored, financed, supported the numerous activities of the Croatian Red Cross. The proposer of this law now argues that the new provision obliging so-called. at a fixed percentage of 0.5% of each unit of local and regional, or regional self-government, actually help the Croatian Red Cross stabilise its permanent and permanent funding. The proposer argues that the guarantee was incorporated into criminal provisions because they had not been present before. The promoter says and guarantees that he will be strict in this regard and will therefore punish those who ignore their legal obligation. According to this proposal, the Croatian Red Cross itself has certain reserves, which stem from certain fears, and they rely on concrete experiences, as you would say in Dalmatia when snakes bite you and lizards fear you. The legislator is trying to calm people who have a steady tooth that will do anything to avoid a bad scenario. According to this proposal, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in particular the Ministry of Health and Social Care, assumes responsibility for establishing a stable and permanent system of financing for the Croatian Red Cross and its activities, but it should be said that there are several problems in this law too. The first is in the very way this law is passed. It is carried out in a hasty procedure, it is justified no less than the need to comply with our birth law on the Red Cross, with the protocols of Geneva conventions, specifically speaking of so-called, with so-called so-called "The Red Cross". Protocol 3 which was believed or not adopted in 2005, and we ratified it in 2007. So for three or five years, nothing urgent happened to us, but now suddenly it is. Furthermore, what does protocol 3 actually bring? Are these changes that are essential to the Croatian Red Cross at all? Of course not. It's so-called. It was necessary to find a foothold, at least to justify an emergency procedure, so it was found in the so-called Protocol 3. We therefore did not accept this kind of reasoning, and we do not think it is good that this law is passed in an emergency procedure, it is not good that it breaks so easily over its knees and it is not good that it appears just as the vice president of this House went along with his proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Croatian Red Cross. It is obvious that another story is there because, as you have seen from the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, the Vice President of the House has not been removed, and what does that mean? Is it possible that this law is being passed? Or something else. But we leave these games aside. The fact is that the Croatian Red Cross needs and deserves such a legal framework for action that will not choke and bother him but that will allow him to function normally, but we warn and this will be our condition to support this law. There is something in this law that is extremely inadmissible. Unless the amendment of the Croatian People's Party Club is accepted, we will refrain from this law, and the amendment applies to Article 3(3), i.e. Article 10(3), which defines among other things what activities are permitted by the Croatian Red Cross. Two words, just two words and one ally, so as a little third word, and that's schools in nature, they're actually hiding a key problem. Some city, some Croatian Red Cross city organizations have started to professionally deal with providing tourist and catering services, and have not done so in a way to establish a company and pay taxes, but are doing so in advance and outside the law, and have had serious problems with the state inspectorate, who has several times found them to break laws, two laws that regulate the provision of tourist and catering services. It is therefore established that some companies of the Croatian Red Cross, and we must not allow the generalization of the work of nearly 130 other societies in the Republic of Croatia, are dealing with a business for which they are not established. Everything can be accepted, therefore, and the summering and wintering of children of weaker material status, all possible forms of provision of accommodation services and nutrition at Croatian Red Cross facilities for all endangered categories, but the school in nature has absolutely nothing to do with it, in no international document concerning the activities of the Red Cross, the red Crescent and the red Crystal, there is no mention of tourist activity, because it simply has nothing to do with the mission of the Croatian Red Cross. It's purely formulated as a valve for some to start dealing with, not to start, but to legalize what they've been dealing with for years. Why is that a problem? This is because they appear on the market competing with tourist agencies and others who provide tourist services, or catering services, do not pay taxes and a large number of children, schools that have nothing to do with vulnerable groups. So neither the children of the fallen defenders, nor the donors of the blood, nor the children of the poor families, or the socially endangered families, are children who are at risk on any other basis than children who buy an arrangement for a 5-day or 7-day stay in the so-called 7-day period. a school in nature which is actually a localized educational program combined with tourist services and therefore deals with some Red Cross societies. It is not their job, and it is not right that the end of agencies that have been registered for 15 years or 18 years in the Republic of Croatia under very strict and controlled conditions near the hotel, hostels, resorts and all other facilities that have been registered, which are very much in compliance with the laws of the Republic of Croatia now suddenly appear on the Croatian Red Cross, i.e. some of its city societies that own buildings such as Zagreb or Osijek and compete with them on the tourist market. That's not right. And it's not a place of nature school in this law. In this respect, the HNS will submit an amendment that the school is to be dropped in nature from Article 10(3), and we support everything else, of course, with the hope that the applicant will indeed guarantee stable financing and functioning. And one more thing, if we do not delete these words, you must know that from the moment of entry into force of this law, the authority of the State Inspectorate ceases over everything that the resorts of the Croatian Red Cross do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53037	Thank you. We have one correction, Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53038	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to correct my colleague Beus when he spoke about the school in nature and said that the Red Cross would begin to organize trips or tourist activities. What is stated in art. 10., but not or point, the 3rd colleague refers to a school in nature, but you must know that there are children who are really socially endangered. We who have worked in this system of social activities in the county know that it is impossible to obtain financial assistance from the Red Cross as an organization that provides such assistance if this is not stated. So these people can neither pay or help their children to go to school like this, and this is one of the regular forms of teaching in schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53039	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53040	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Secretary of State is on the board because there's been some complications there. Our colleagues and colleagues are ahead of us with the proposal of the Law on the Croatian Red Cross, which is in urgent procedure for the reasons that are necessary and therefore I will begin, so that our Armed Forces and the Red Cross can act immediately and at present under the sign of crystal, a new sign of the Red Cross, and therefore it is an emergency procedure because we already have calls that we cannot make. That's why it's an emergency procedure and we've been thinking about it for a long time, but there's been a really comprehensive debate with representatives of the Red Cross, with MPs, with the Red Cross activists on the ground and in agreement with them are amendments that I spoke of on behalf of the board. So, I think there was time for debate and that everyone could say what they wanted and that there were no occipital games behind this emergency procedure. The Croatian Red Cross, which has 131 society in the local community in Croatia, has a long tradition, a very impressive action and I would only refer here to the Secretary of State's words. We are obliged to monitor, organise and enable the freedom of action of the Red Cross, which plays an important role in the field of health care, in disasters, hence emergency situations and this law allows about 500 thousand volunteers as far as the Croatian Red Cross in Croatia really works under conditions that are equal to all other crosses in other countries. The Croatian Red Cross promotes the idea of humanity, promotes the idea of helping those who are in need, helps everyone regardless of raciality, regardless of gender, regardless of faith, regardless of any differences between people. We unfortunately had the opportunity to use the service of the Croatian Red Cross in the Homeland War, but of course the services of the International Red Cross. Thanks to the International Red Cross, we saved thousands of lives. With their help, we evacuated Pakrac Hospital in the vicinity of 300 members, 300 patients who were in the hospital at the time. We pulled out 104 wounded from Vukovar which would end up a few weeks later in Ovcara. We've made a whole series of actions. Unfortunately, there has been international politicisation of the Red Cross, and this should be spoken openly. May 2, '91. In the village of Boro, 12 Croatian directors were killed, then the rebel Serbs did not allow an emergency medical unit to access those wounded who had no fatal injuries. They had a gunshot wound to the extremities, only if the doctor had gotten to them, it would have saved those 12, at least nine lives. Those who shot them wouldn't let the Vinkovac crew approach them, so they bled out in front of their eyes from wounds that weren't lethal. As the minister of that time, I immediately rushed to Geneva to present to the world what had happened to the Red Cross for Europe, Mr. Germon, to intervene, to announce. He resolutely rejected it because he said it was intrapolitical matters, not providing services to the Red Cross. So there was politicization at international level at the beginning of the Homeland War, later when they realized at the international level who is who and what is going on there we had really full support of the International Red Cross. I'm going back to this law and the Croatian Red Cross, so I said why he's going through an emergency procedure. It goes because the Red Cross structure must really be in line with existing regulations and it is here, like all crosses in other countries, regulated by its establishment and operation as an association, that's what we haven't had solved so far. It's introduced as Dr. A large additional sign of red crystal introduced along the red cross and the red half-month so that those who do not accept these two characters could participate in international activities and this crystal was indeed introduced by the Geneva Convention 3. In 2005, and as the world leaders of the Red Cross and the Crescent said then, I quote: "The red crystal once again confirms the advantage and determination of the international red cross and the Crescent to further increase their strength and credibility, and that is why we need this to be able to act on the international community, because the Croatian Red Cross thanks to a large part of its first director after 90th. The public on the international scene is very quickly recognized and involved in all major international actions and it serves us with pride. The urgency is needed because of the newly solved problem that Beus spoke about, which is that the adoption of two laws came into question by a single action of the Red Cross, which is the Law on the catering activity adopted in 2006 and the Law on the provision of services in tourism in 2007, under which all activities of the Red Cross are in the organisation of accommodation, residence, as this Law says and as counterpart Roksandić said only for those who, in the need, are health, social or any other, should organise such accommodation and according to this law is a tourist activity and he would have to pay taxes and any other tax. This is the law that regulates it. Of course it remains the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate over all activities of the Red Cross and Sanitary Inspectorate and all other inspections that have legal authority and the duty to oversee the work of all activities of the Red Cross. In this law, it is necessary to highlight the way in which the red cross is financed. The way of funding is very complex because it is funded from a lot of sources, I will mention only the State budget, the budgets of local administration, donations, gambling, different bonuses on postage stamps on each week's occasion, which the Red Cross declares, the funding from contributions of natural and legal persons, so a whole series of sources which I speak to the Croatian Red Cross in 2009, total gives 90 million 264 thousand kuna, in 2009, the total income of the Red Cross. In doing so, the detachment of cities was 66 million 765 thousand kuna, the detachment of municipalities being 14 million and 700 thousand kuna, and the county somewhere just about 9 million kuna, I say 90 million 264 thousand. In collecting such funds, the Croatian Red Cross had major problems, some of the bonds especially local administrations did not carry out their financial obligations. In the payment of such claims, there were a lot of problems, and therefore, this Law changes and ensures the settlement of the obligations of Article 43, which determines that the non-payment of those legal obligations to the Red Cross is a violation, so the Criminal Law applies to all those who do not respect it with very high penalties that go from 10 to 50 thousand kuna for legal persons and 5 to 20 thousand kuna for responsible persons in bodies who have not fulfilled their legal obligation to pay to the Croatian Red Cross. These responsible persons are in the county mayor, at lower levels the mayor and the mayor of the municipality. What was problematic in the debate was that it changed the obligation of local administration and self-government as a percentage of the amount of its own income towards the Red Cross. There was a concern that the change in the obligation from 0.5 to 1.8% of income to 0.5 income was reduced to Red Cross income. Why this had to change, earlier it seemed that the local administration of the district self-government should have singled out 0.2% of its incomes for the operation of the search service, and 0.5% to 1.8% of the income for the regular activities of the Red Cross. Of course, nothing can be calculated in any budget if the item is limited to 0.5 to 1.8 because how much will it be accurate that the municipality or city could adopt its own budget, hence the unimaginable definition of the commitment from the budget and therefore it is decided here to set a rate of 0.5% of income for regular activities and that these revenues are reduced when calculating that percentage by an additional share in the income tax for decentralised functions of balancing and decentralised functions, own revenues and minority revenues. When such a reduction in income is 0.5% of it must be paid in the Red Cross. And now there's been a natural problem because it's a total reduction in Red Cross income, since the Red Cross had with some units of local administration and self-government additional contracts to carry out certain social affairs. Some counties, for example, did not fully have organised social care but left one part of the Croatian Red Cross. Why? Because he also had an organized field service and educated or qualified personnel, the county did not have it and she left it to the Red Cross with a certain fee to carry out these tasks, so here we have proposed an amendment which, apart from here, can create an additional contract between the Croatian Red Cross and the local administration unit and self-government on such additional services. Then it is not a legal obligation but is the result of an additional contract on which the Red Cross performs those services, and the contracting authority, the local administration unit and self-government pay the agreed amount. This was also accepted by representatives of local administration and self-government, it was accepted by representatives of the Red Cross and accepted by the promoter of the Ministry of Health and Social Care. I think that this bill has significantly improved the position of the Red Cross in the Republic of Croatia, made it possible to increase the scope of assistance at international level, to provide funding and the possibility of additional services that the Red Cross can provide to units of local and regional (regional) self-government, and also to remove the resulting legal problem under which the Croatian Red Cross could not provide accommodation and nutrition services for those who need it for social and health reasons. From all of this, our club feels that we should support this law and so should support the amendments that I spoke about in the opening part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53041	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS club, Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53042	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. As I all believe we know, the World Red Cross Day has been marked on May 8, 1948. In carrying out the mission next to the Red Cross and the Red Crescent, it is guided by the basic principles adopted on 20. The International Convention, held in 1965 in Vienna. I will remind only of the adopted fundamental principles that are current today, and then they are adopted, which are humanity, impartiality, neutrality, independence, volunteering, unity and universality, and I repeat their currentity is still valid today. The movement as such does not make a difference in terms of national, religious, class or political membership, it is not assigned to any side. The movement is voluntary and is not driven by the desire to win, and in every country there can be as only one society of the Red Cross or the Red Crescent can exist. And last but not least, the idea of movement grew and was accepted worldwide. The humanitarian action and work of the Croatian Red Cross is based on the provisions of the Geneva Conventions of August 1949, which are complemented by the 1977 protocols and today mentions Protocol 3 of 2005. The last protocol refers to an additional sign of recognition and protection of so-called The red crystal therefore requires domestic legislation, which is why we have already heard the justification of urgency to comply with its provisions, as it enables the use of an additional sign of recognition of the Red Crystal, which is particularly important in situations of the necessary protection of members of the Croatian Army in peacekeeping missions. The main goal of the Croatian Red Cross is to alleviate human suffering, prevent disease and protect health, promote solidarity and help each other regardless of the different criteria. The proposed law also lays down the public powers of the Croatian Red Cross, the activities and financing of the Croatian Red Cross as the national Red Cross society on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and the conditions and means of use and protection of the signs and names of the Croatian Red Cross and its formational forms. They are, as we have already today and heard, funded in several ways from several positions, above all, membership fees, local and regional (regional) self-government units, the state budget. Of the activities of which the Republic of Croatia and the units of local and regional (regional) self-government and legal and natural persons have entrusted to the Croatian Red Cross and its bodies, on the activities and agreed programmes of specific actions and activities undertaken with the aim of collecting money and material resources, on grants, subsidies, inheritances and gifts, on income, on assets and rights, on compensation for privatisation, on prize games according to applicable regulations, on the contribution of citizens of legal persons, etc. We also heard that in 2009, more than 90 million kunas were collected in this way. The HSS Club considers a good solution that the proposed law sets out the percentages, so it is proposed that for the Water Life Rescue and Environmental Protection Service the Croatian Red Cross acquires 1% of the funds from the fees paid, and that local and regional (regional) self-government units are allocated 0.2% of the income of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government. Also for public authorities and the activities of the Red Cross formations, 0.5% of the income of all units of local and regional (regional) self-government is allocated. We also give a positive assessment of Article 10(3), which prescribes that, on the basis of public authority, the organisation of transport, the provision of services, accommodation and nutrition, and regardless of the duration, this is not considered to be a tourist and catering activity. This is especially emphasized, given that the adoption of the Law on Food Activity in the National Journal is no. 138/06. and the Law on the provision of services in tourism has been challenged in interpreting the provisions that regulated such activities of the Croatian Red Cross, even though carrying out such an activity has been treated as commercial activity which is by no means in the nature of the function of the existence of the Croatian Red Cross. If the continuation of this noble activity had to continue according to the rules applicable to commercial activities, i.e. if they were treated as a tourist service, the purpose of these activities would be lost under the auspices of the Red Cross, because the cost of the programme would no longer be intended for those who need it most. Since the software content of the Red Cross takes place in its facilities longer than is provided for by the Tourism Service Act and not excluded as such. It is good that this law states that these activities are not considered tourist and catering activities. It is not difficult to remember not so long ago the troubles that have happened to our country, what neighbouring countries or those who are geographically far away from us, and regardless of the differences always have the same unique need in such times, and that is the desire for help to arrive as soon and effectively as possible to ease human suffering. We are witnessing that over the past decade there have been significant changes in the action of the Red Cross and the Red Crescent movement, conditioned by the state and needs of the world population. Let's remember what was going on with us in the Homeland War and the Earth. The operation of the Croatian Red Cross during the last humanitarian campaigns and what caused them, which are catastrophic earthquakes or tsunamis, where the Croatian Red Cross collected significant funds and also sent the work to places affected by disasters. As we live in a time of rapid communication, great needs and expectations, it is necessary to allow adequate legislation to work successfully for the national societies of the Red Cross and the Red Crescent. The Republic of Croatia has always given full support to the operation of the Croatian Red Cross by creating assumptions that will provide sufficient number of interested volunteers and basic material resources for their organised humanitarian activity, so we at the HSS club believe this law will contribute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53043	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Brankica Crljenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53044	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support this bill although we also have certain observations. The international movement of the Red Cross and the Red Crescent is a movement that is more than 130 years old. It is essentially a very conservative movement that does not change its 7 principles from the very beginning and does not act according to the day-to-day policy in some environment. Seven basic principles are the essence of movement. They were accepted at the 20th International Conference in Geneva in 1965. States are obliged at any time to respect the attachment of all components to the basic principles of movement, which are humanity, impartiality, neutrality, independence, unity, volunteering and universality. It's a movement created in the war and its basic action is in the war and around the war. During the period 1991 to 1998, the Croatian Red Cross as the largest humanitarian organization directs its activity to the aid of hundreds of thousands of war victims. The number of people who regularly assisted the Croatian Red Cross during that period was on average 490 thousand exiles, refugees and other victims of war casualties. The largest number of regular users of the Croatian Red Cross assistance coming from international and domestic sources was in 1992. That year, the Croatian Red Cross helped 751 thousand people, so about 16% of the entire Croatian population. For the same period, the Croatian Red Cross collected more than a million doses of blood. The service of the search for the Croatian Red Cross has accepted and distributed more than a million and a half family messages, received and processed 28 thousand 700 missing persons requests, organised 174 meetings where more than 23 thousand separate family members met for the first time, and only through the national office were more than 17,000 people who addressed and asked for help and services of the search. The Croatian Red Cross helped both powerless and old people, conducted educational and health-care programmes specially designed for school youth, organised reception, storage, transport and distribution of international assistance. The Croatian Red Cross also organised psychological and social assistance programmes for persons located in 284 collective accommodation centres throughout Croatia. Immediately after the release of occupied areas, the Croatian Red Cross organized a network of its companies in the freed area and began effective assistance to all the victims. All of these activities during a particularly difficult period of Croatian history were carried out with a relatively small number of professional employees thanks to a large number of volunteers of the Croatian Red Cross, which is consistent with the basic settings of the International Red Cross Movement that require volunteering as a basis for all activities and interventions. In peace, the activities of each red cross should be reduced, but in some cases it is the opposite. When the war was far behind us some of the Red Cross societies in Croatia turned to very profitable economic activities on which they do not pay any taxes. As I said, in the international movement nothing has changed for more than 130 years, and with us, the Red Cross laws change in cycles every 10 years. For the SDP club, Article 10(1) of point 3 is controversial, which says: they organise transport, provide accommodation and nutrition services to persons in need of such a form of assistance for health, social and other similar reasons. Kitchens of the Croatian Red Cross, food delivery in houses, services in centres, resorts and camps, schools in nature, training of non-swimmings, children's recovery and youth of socially endangered families, members and others. The provision of services referred to in paragraph 1 of this point, regardless of the duration, shall not be considered to be a tourist and catering activity. The second or similar reasons referred to in the legislative proposal of Article 10(1)(3) should not be contrary to humanitarian activity. Tourism, hospitality, education do not stem from any Geneva Convention or Supplemental Protocol, not even Protocol 3 of 2005 which is mentioned after five years as a reason for the urgent adoption of this law. Since it wasn't five years of urgency until the misapplication began due to the treatment of tourism against Osijek first, and recently Zagreb's Red Cross. The idea of red crystal is introduced into this law. The red crystal is the new official symbol after the red cross and the red half moon. None of the international agreements provide for anything similar that also provides for the least possible treatment of tourism, hospitality or similar economic activities. What is important to point out is that the Red Cross city societies do not have the means provided by the state budget, but only from the budget of the units of local self-government and administrations, which unfortunately so far did not allocate funds even though they were required by law because there were no criminal legal provisions in the law. In this law, it is positive that this proposal introduces these provisions. The lack of financial resources questioned the implementation of all of the above activities carried out by the Red Cross for the benefit of all citizens. The Red Cross employs employees who are employed and who carry out the above-mentioned tasks professionally, which means that they should be paid for their work. We must not forget that some societies in the Republic of Croatia fight a battle every month for naked survival. The proposed Law on the Croatian Red Cross contains solutions that better and more precisely define the issues of the work and activities of the National Society of the Red Cross, and regardless of the above comments, the SDP Club will accept the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53045	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53046	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here it is, five days ago this month ended the week of the Red Cross. It may be good for practical reasons to mention the financial situations that occur in that week of the Red Cross. First of all, every ticket sold in the inter-urban, international, air, rail, ship and bus traffic takes 3% of the price of the ticket. Next, to all postal consignments in domestic transport other than newspapers and magazines, the amount of 50% of the nominal value of the first rate of the letter mass at the price list of public operator services. Further to each ticket sold for cultural, entertainment and sports events, there are numerous concerts, festivals, cinema shows, sports games and competitions of local, national and international character and a similar amount of 3% of the price of the map. Another note. During the week of the Red Cross, which happens from May 8th to May 15th, the Red Cross can also organize actions to collect voluntary contributions and gifts. How do you actually acquire funds in the Croatian Red Cross in order to achieve your goals and exercise public authority? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European First of the membership fees from the budget of all units of local and regional self-government from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, out of the activities of the Republic of Croatia, units of local and regional self-government and legal and natural persons entrusted to the Croatian Red Cross and its formational forms. Of the activities of the contracted programmes of specific actions, activities undertaken with the aim of raising money, material resources, from grants, subsidies, gifts and inheritances, from revenue from assets and rights, from fees for the award of prizes under applicable rules, from the contributions of citizens, legal persons and others, from revenue made under the laws and regulations. The Croatian Red Cross for the Water Life Rescue Service and ecological coastal protection receives 1% of the funds from paid residence fees. It is also important in Article 30, which states that units of local and regional self-government are providing funds which have already been said to require the work and operation of the service at unit level of local and regional self-government to be allocated to zero per cent of the income of units of local and regional self-government determined in accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article. Two, public authorities and regular activities shall be allocated zero five per cent of the income of all units of local and regional self-government determined in accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article and for the work of the Red Cross formations. And now the supplementary protocol of the Geneva Convention since 12 August 1949 has been mentioned on an additional sign of recognition from Protocol Three of 2005. It entered into force in the Republic of Croatia on 13 December 2007. Protocol three adopted an additional sign of identification of protection of red crystal, so domestic legislation is necessary to comply with the provisions of this Protocol. This enables the use of an additional sign of red crystal recognition to enable its application in the event of the need to protect members of the Croatian Army when participating in peacekeeping missions as well as the protection of volunteers and professional employees of the Croatian Red Cross when participating in humanitarian missions. The legal proposal regulates the establishment, operation and operation of the Croatian Red Cross in accordance with the provisions of the laws governing the establishment and operation of associations. Of course the Red Cross has its own statute. The Statute of the Croatian Red Cross determines the formational formats, meaning the municipal, urban and county societies of the Red Cross, the internal structure, membership, the work of the body and service, the property and other issues relevant to the work and operation as well as the structure and part-time work of the Central Office of the Croatian Red Cross. The legal proposal also lays down the public powers of the Croatian Red Cross. The public authorities of the Croatian Red Cross also refer to the powers in connection with the structure, prepare a task force, in the event of disasters, establishing a life-saving service on water and environmental coastal protection, as well as informing the population about the dangers of mines and other explosive devices. The legislative proposal sets out the activities carried out by the Croatian Red Cross and its natural forms in accordance with the means and needs of the community, which relate to the prevention of disease of addiction, and the provision of accommodation and nutrition services to persons in particular children who need it for health and social and other reasons, various kinds of care and assistance to third-age persons and programmes for assistance to asylum seekers, asylum seekers and other groups of immigrants, as well as victims of human trafficking. The provision of those accommodation and nutrition services in the Red Cross facilities, and transport are not considered to be a tourist and catering activity. And finally to conclude. The proposed Law on the Croatian Red Cross contains solutions that better, more precisely define the issues of the work and activities of the national Red Cross society and fully comply with the changes and accepted standards in the International Community. And for that reason, together with the proposed amendment, I will support the proposal for this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53047	Thank you. Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53048	Thank you, Your Honor. At the very beginning of the presentation, I would like to say that I will not support the adoption of this proposal for a law on the Croatian Red Cross. The reason why I will not support this bill is because this Red Cross bill no longer treats itself as a non-profit humanitarian organisation that the Red Cross should be in line with international conventions which are the signatories of the Republic of Croatia, but gives the Red Cross a status that is significantly different from the status normally enjoyed by non-profit humanitarian organisations. And with this bill, just as with the bill proposed by the Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Vladimir Seks favors Zagreb and Osijek's local branch of the Red Cross, at the expense of the rest of the hundreds of branches or Red Cross societies. How? By significantly reducing the percentages allocated from the various budgets of those branches which, unlike those of Zagreb and Osijek, deal exclusively with humanitarian work in the manner provided for by the Geneva Convention and the Supplemental Protocols. This applies to Article 10 in which a non-profit humanitarian organisation, which is an economic activity, more accurate tourism and catering, and primary school education, is to be dealt with by a non-profit humanitarian organisation, which is the most untaxed money with the help of schools in the nature of the Red Cross in Osijek and Zagreb. I remind you that activities, these activities are not an integral part of any Geneva Convention or additional protocols. The urgency of the procedure is explained by the obligation to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the Supplemental Protocol of the Geneva Convention concerning the additional sign of recognition and protection of so-called The red crystal, but the sign is not explained anywhere, and it is a new official symbol of Israel, which allows Israel to enter the international movement of the Red Cross. In any case, there is insufficient reason for such urgency of procedure, because the red crystal has nothing to do with the Croatian Red Cross. The current situation in Croatia is not such, fortunately that it is realistic to expect the need to intervene with the red crystal, so the urgency of passing this law is not justified. It is known to all that international agreements and conventions are not the type to be adopted in an emergency procedure, and it often happens several years from the signing of the agreement to its ratification in the Croatian Parliament, and this law does not represent ratification of the document, but rather free interpretation, or compliance with the protocol. Although I highly appreciate the organization of the Red Cross, and I believe that the invaluable action of the Red Cross throughout a series of extremely difficult situations of major natural disasters and wartime acts in which a very large number of people are killed, I believe that the Red Cross must not be above the law and international conventions, and this bill makes it so. I am deeply convinced that most employees and activists and activists of the Red Cross branch in Croatia share this opinion. What am I based on this claim? On the very assumption that this is the case with many other MPs and MPs, I received an email appealing to us not to accept this bill, which was sent by persons who are activists and activists and who work in the Croatian Red Cross. These persons warn us that by adopting this law we make a dangerous precedent and put some branches of the Red Cross above the law, by adopting this law de facto we prevent the state inspectorate from controlling the work of the Red Cross on the basis of the provisions of the Law on Hostage and the Law on the provision of services in tourism, which is inadmissible because no one, no organization, nor the Red Cross organisation must be above the law. It should be pointed out that the existing Tourism Service Act provides sufficient freedom to the Red Cross that, for its members occasionally, I stress the occasional organisation of two-day trips with the announcement of a state inspectorate to keep records that these arrangements do not become a business on which absolutely no tax is paid. This bill allows the Red Cross to deal with tourism as one of its activities, but that it does not have to pay taxes, which is inadmissible because the constitutional category of equality is being violated before the law. This law exempts the Red Cross from the law of the intended supervision and control, which is very much a smell of corruption under the auspices of humanitarian activity, which is the ultimate manipulation and deception of the public. Logically, the question is raised, so who is it in the interest that the Red Cross does not pay any taxes on single incomes for a non-profit organisation and to operate without any supervision or control? It is a question to which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to answer. No one prevents the Red Cross from establishing a company that would deal with tourism and catering activities in accordance with the regulations covering this area, from paying taxes on these activities, and that the profits achieved are used for humanitarian actions, but this way of privileged Red Cross creates a huge gap and injustice in relation to all others that, in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Croatia, carry out these activities. Activists and activists of the Red Cross warn of a whole series of existing problems in the organization itself that are not talked about at all, because the Red Cross has won the status of a kind of sacred cow, an untouchable status because of the activity it deals with, and no one dares to speak publicly about it so as not to be considered as a non-human who opposes humanitarian action. However, there are numerous doubts about the non-transparent business of some branches of the Red Cross, employment, or better said, the love of entire families in the Red Cross and the mutilation of institutions to such phenomena. When we keep this in mind, we must be particularly careful when passing laws that will cement non-transparent business nepotism, and possible corruption in an organisation that should be a form of justice and honesty. In the end, I would like to say that it is a real joke when the proponent in the explanation says that this law regulates the Red Cross to act in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the operation of associations, because this law gives the Red Cross a status that is significantly above that prescribed Association Act, which says that Croatia is not a country where all are equal before the law. Obviously, some are more equal and therefore cannot support the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53049	Thank you. We have two corrections and two replicas. First the corrections. Mrs. Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53050	Thank you very much. So I would correct a colleague who, out of her debate, turns out that the Red Cross is one profit organization, but Article 10 says that the Croatian Red Cross and its structural forms, other than the public authorities of Articles 8 and 9, have others, among them is the organisation of transportation, provision of accommodation services, nutrition for those who need such a form of assistance for health, social and other similar reasons, and now lists the kitchens of Croatian, food delivery, services in centres, resorts and camps of the Croatian Red Cross which are now available in non-swimmming schools, etc. The provision of services referred to in paragraph 1 of this point, regardless of the duration.../Conversation away from the microphone./... tourist and catering activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53051	Thank you. And another correction, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53052	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Holly, you said not to treat the Red Cross as a nonprofit organization, another thing to do without any supervision or control. Well, that's absolutely incorrect. It would turn out to be God, my dear, and we've met in one way or another, and we've all expressed ourselves, and there, in your opinion, some great enormous resources are being poured out without any control or control. So all in discussions so far, colleagues and colleagues have expressed concern about the material status and normal functioning in accordance with this Article 30. so that this organization could actually act on these principles which they have said here so that it can serve both the needy and the humanitarian sense of all other and, of course, these areas, so also these needs that they are going to, which they cannot learn to swim or other activities. Please, he's got kids, not everyone can go and learn how to swim. One if one learns to swim at any time it's a big profit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53053	Thank you. And the replica, first Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53054	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, the respected colleague Holly in her presentation has been very troubled by just one segment dealing with some organizations of the Croatian Red Cross, most obviously the one in Osijek and Zagreb, so it is actually the largest and strongest organizations that have the most expanded network of activities. And that's exactly what they actually had the largest number of programs. One of these programmes has been implemented in particular for almost 40 years, or more than 40 years, and it is certainly in one part of the public in this area that is clearly identified as something extremely good. The question actually opened here through the possibility of giving to the Red Cross or the legal possibility of dealing with certain activities that he has not been involved in objectively or in dealing with, and has not been regulated by the special Law on the Croatian Red Cross, has actually raised the question of one fundamental relationship with other institutions that deal with such matters. Like, for example, travel agencies. In principle, that's fine, but let's not do any more damage when making our decisions than the one that exists at the moment. And there are objects that have been invested very large funds that must be preserved. I think we must not allow Croatia to actually because of insisting on some principles that are not actually implemented to do more damage than, for example, with state property in military facilities where huge state property is immobilized which is not put into function of development. So when we need to make decisions, we also make decisions in such a way as to preserve what we have and what is good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53055	Thank you. There's no answer. I'd like to inform you that at 10:47, it's past 10 minutes' notice. And another replica, Mr. Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53056	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Holly, those citizens and activists who asked me to intervene in this law, they just asked me to raise my doubts and make those remarks that you were talking about. I can only thank you for that on their behalf and on your behalf, you have my full support and the HNS club as you have seen that the amendment is attached to trying to solve one of the evident shortcomings of this bill. So thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53057	Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53058	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In one part, I join what my colleague Holly said, of course, considering that in the Croatian Red Cross and its more than a hundred local branches there are a number of people who have absolutely correct and human motives of their engagement in the Croatian Red Cross, and if there are some who have misused that trust it should certainly be condemned. And, of course, we should talk about it publicly because no institution or Croatian Red Cross is a sacred cow to be spared and criticized. I would just like to refer to the financing of the branch of the Croatian Red Cross by the units of local self-government, i.e. the Art. Article 30(2) So far, it has been a practice in fact that a prescribed percentage that must be singled out by local units of local self-government for the Croatian Red Cross, i.e. its branches, was prescribed without the local self-government unit. However, in Art. 30. In paragraph 2, when the amount of funds is therefore to be allocated, this base is reduced by many things, and then eventually there could be a reduction of 52% for the local branches of the Red Cross compared to what they now had. I think that the article, around that item, should further consider that we would not need to establish a new Red Cross to assist the branches of the Croatian Red Cross in the country, except for these 2 strongest, so Zagreb and Osijek. Also, I don't think it's necessary to lift the benefit of paying toll on humanitarian aid. I know, therefore, that the situation was such that even the abolition of this disability privilege was proposed. However, I think that given that humanitarian aid is being brought by foreigners to Croatia, they bring it to the citizens, not to the Red Cross, and that, in fact, the damage from it would be to the citizens, not to the Red Cross, so that the provision should therefore be changed. In that sense, I'm joining my colleague Holly unless that changes, and I'm also not voting for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53059	Thank you. Secretary of State Ante Plasimir Golem, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53060	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to make a few personal comments. For the sake of the public, it is clear and loud that the Croatian Red Cross in the Republic of Croatia does not have any more rights than the Croatian Red Cross, that is, has a Red Cross in any EU country and belongs to it by convention, according to the Geneva Convention and by the Statute of the International Red Cross. It appears that the misunderstanding that has taken place for the purpose of enlisting an article. The 10th was to be clarified. The Croatian Red Cross will never deal with tourism activities and will not deal with other activities that are business activities, but those activities that they are engaged in, and these activities can act and we have had misunderstandings, so we say that these activities that they do are not tourist and economic activities. That means we didn't let them deal with this activity, but we clearly defined it. If there is abuse, and for everything else there is for this abuse, there is a tax system that controls financing to all other institutions of society that need to be resolved. But we can't get one organization to go through this and show the humanitarian organization in this way that because it gets that part of the job that's simply his duty under the Convention and his duty under international regulations that we think it's going to end immediately or that it's going to be the subject of some kind of dispute. On the other hand, Art. The 30th paragraph of the 2nd revenue is true, that is precisely in the opening statement and pointed out that the problem was boredom about income, and we did not exclude ourselves to say what the revenue in that part of the revenue meant for purpose, so they also accounted for what became practically inconclusive with this paragraph 2 where 0.5% of the revenue is derived from work. And what's even more important is said with an article. In 43rd, we will ensure that 130 companies are funded. At that time, 53 companies that funded will not have to help finance the other 103 companies. If the Croatian Red Cross does some sort of thing somewhere, let's call it that, income, own income, he'll put it back into humanitarian work because I'll remind you for sure at a time when we were smaller, when we were collecting for the Croatian Red Cross, for example, paper on the street, and when trucks were being driven, no one was saying that he was engaged in municipal activity, he was not involved in humanitarian activity, and the funds collected in this way were used again humanitarianally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53061	Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53062	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President, Secretary of State, here I would like to mention in the beginning a certain 131 society which is mostly involved in humanitarian work as predicted by the Geneva Convention and the Supplemental Protocols. I would also point out one important role of our international Red Cross. During the Homeland War, as well as data in 92, even 16.6% of our population actually had the help of the Red Cross, then a very important role in Poreč in protecting and improving health and social care, health charity, then organised acceptance and distribution of humanitarian aid, coordination of the implementation of solidarity actions, and what is very important is the promotion of a voluntary blood donor. I must also stress in the past 10 years that there has been a change and due to global warming, frequent disasters, an epidemic of armed conflicts, migration, pollution, etc., and that is why international resolutions, or the International Conference of the Red Cross, are, in fact, strategies for future action among others, the 2020 Strategy for national societies and also the Strategy for the restoration of family ties. In that sense, I would also point out one very important positive role of the Red Cross, the national Red Cross in our area when it was actually set up to search through the national office, so here is the data, which received this service of 28 thousand 700 requests, that 84 meetings were organised and that 23 thousand separated family members thus found their relatives. In fact, it should be pointed out that the Red Cross is operated by professionals and also by enthusiasts, therefore, it is commendable. However, as my colleagues previously stressed, there are doubts precisely because of this activity of the Red Cross, which does not belong to humanitarian activities and, of course, for good action, or for successful interventions of the national Red Cross companies, it is certain that a legal framework should be established. Since the entry into force of the Law on the Croatian Red Cross 2001 and the Law on the Protection of Signs and the name of the Red Cross in 2003, international humanitarian law has continued to develop, and among other things we have adopted the third Supplemental Protocol to the Geneva Conventions, which speaks of the said red crystal, or an additional sign of recognition. The problem is the one that we have seen today from several discussions, which is providing accommodation and nutrition services to people who need it for health, social and other reasons for members of the Croatian Red Cross. Namely, those services by adopting the Household Activity Act and the Tourism Service Act should not be carried out by the Croatian Red Cross because it would be in breach regardless of whether it is carried out as a non-profit organisation without obtaining profits. It is this legislative proposal that it found that the provision of accommodation and nutrition services in the Red Cross facilities as well as transport is not considered a tourist catering activity. Just because we got from some Red Cross organizations, which we received from citizens, we received a letter in which there are doubts about such activities, in which there are doubts about two Red Cross organisations, I don't think the Law should have been used as a cover for some Croatian Red Cross societies in hospitality, education and similar inhumanitarian activities against Geneva Conventions. I think that this way we should more precisely crystallise these doubts, i.e. avoid these doubts, because the dispute over such catering activities should not cast any shadow on the humanitarian action of the Red Cross. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53063	Thank you. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53064	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is the proposal for a law that brings before us a number of newspapers, some of which are not, some are good, some might be even better said, I know that national society of the Croatian Red Cross participated actively in the draft law, but I also have information that the provisions of some articles have been changed subsequently without knowledge and without the consent of the National Society which I do not think is good. Because it's so easy to get the impression that the waist is always used in some way as a cover, as an alibi, so that it can be said that the profession was approved by some law, and ultimately it's not. In my opinion, I will try to be brief and specifically ask Mr. Secretary of State for a few clarifications. Namely, my few predecessors also expressed their reservations and doubts as to why this Law must go by emergency procedure. So, it's not about any harmonisation, or in the interest of defence, there are no important state reasons, and I think that actually the Ministry of Justice has unfoundedly required that the law goes according to an emergency procedure, and in particular it seems to me somehow in light of the newspaper's writings lately on this Law, I don't think there should have been any further incentive in the public to suspect that there is something going on quickly and beyond the profession to push through. So we have been witnessing lately a number of writings that suggest that the Law is changed because of one or two societies dealing with illicit tourism or catering activities and that this Law pleases them in this regard. And there is for many disputed Article 10(3), which therefore regulates the catering and tourist activity regardless of the duration. I have to admit, this is not the most controversial thing about this law to me. Why? I'll try to explain why. Because this article is not an absolute newspaper, it is partly contained in the Law on the provision of services in tourism in Article 6 and this article says that trade unions, pensioners' associations, mountaineering associations and similar associations can, of course, be understood here and the Red Cross can, in order to achieve its objectives and tasks prescribed by the Statute of the Association, organise a package of arrangements, excursions, etc. for up to two days. However, we know that the Red Cross programmes, hence the recovery of youth, children and socially endangered families, training of non-swimmings, programs, educations, lasts longer than two days. And according to the law, the mandatory engagement of tourist agencies as an intermediary leads to the purchase of services provided by the Red Cross. So, the same law provides exceptions for certain organizations, for scouts, for amateur sports clubs, but not for Red Cross associations. So, no wonder, it is not unusual to say what the Proposer has proposed in Article 10(3). However, what I find extremely controversial is that it does not satisfy Article 6(2). The law on the provision of services in tourism which clearly and precisely says that all these activities of the Red Cross can be done if they are without the purpose of obtaining profits. This is an extremely important item. Mr. Secretary of State is an extremely important item, and it's gone. Correct me if I'm wrong. So, it seems to me that if we want to prevent a charity such as the Red Cross from obtaining an enormous profit through catering or tourist activity. So, this is missing if we wanted to prevent a nonprofit association, an organization becoming profitable. One very important segment of this law relates to the financing of the Red Cross Society and Article 30 makes it very clear. So 0.7% doesn't sound a little bit, but less than what the existing law says. To be clear, I don't think the existing law is better than the one you're proposing, because we know things didn't work out, we know there weren't any criminal provisions, etc. However, I think that companies in large cities and units of local and regional (regional) self-government with high budgets will have sufficient resources to function, moreover, if it is a good chance to report to competitions for a number of projects and programmes. But, Mr. Secretary of State, let's ask ourselves, what will be in those environments where the budgets are relatively small? How will these societies work? How will these societies survive? How's he gonna secure the pay? I can give you a very specific example because it is now possible to simply calculate how many societies will be lost. For example. In 2009, the town of Krapina singled out 230 thousand kuna for the work of the Red Cross. Under the new law's proposal, this year it will be required to set aside for the exact same scope of the 119 thousand kuna activity. Well, that's a 52% reduction, that's a reduction of 111 thousand kuna. What could cause that? I think we need to talk about it now and that we have to in some way predict and prevent the consequences of passing such a law. I think it could lead to job cuts. Maybe we'll have a situation where our societies fall for one person, maybe just the principal. And it's good to ask ourselves how much the activities of society will be reduced. I think it's quite a certain closure of some societies in smaller units of local and regional (regional) self-government. What are the possible solutions? One of the solutions to this situation I think is to determine the coefficient that would protect the salaries of Red Cross employees as is the case with local self-government personnel, as is the case with school workers. So, in some ways, we need to be sure that with this kind of funding, we will provide salaries to employees in the Red Cross societies, and then we will allow the skills of the director, i.e. employees, to raise additional funds for numerous programmes and projects. The second solution is, of course, that Article 30 of the law you propose, so the first, second and third paragraphs are replaced by Article 14(1) of the applicable law, which also determines the possibility of greater separations and units of local and regional self-government. This may sound similar to what the Health and Social Care Committee proposes. However, I think that this is about projects and programmes, not about the activity or the regular functioning of the Red Cross society, or the salaries of the employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53065	Thank you. One correction, one replica. Mrs. Carmela Caparin's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53066	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd fix a colleague who says that now the Red Cross won't have enough money to pay. ...that he'll get a lot less funding. That's not true at all, because this law obliges local administration units to give funds. You've had cases so far that they didn't give at all, they didn't have any penalties, no provisions for not giving those funds. It's an example of you in my county where the city didn't give the Red Cross, and yet they could pay the wages. And the second is incorrect that you said you would expect some kind of profit, profit as a catering and tourist activity. I don't know where they'd have profit from, if Article 3 says that providing help to accommodation... to people who are poor, who don't have to be delivered to the house, so who can't afford it at all, then I don't see where that profits come from and that profit from such an orphanage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53067	Replica Mr. Zdenko Franić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53068	Dear colleagues, Jerkovic, in your discussion you touched these situations regarding the possible provision of tourist services by the Red Cross. So I would just like to add my thinking to the fact that the activities of the International Red Cross and thus the Croatian Red Cross are regulated by international conventions, i.e. Geneva conventions. And according to Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia international agreements are part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and according to the legal law above Croatian laws, and none of the Geneva conventions foresees that any company of the Red Cross, the Red Crescent or the Red Crystal in the world is engaged in something that has a characteristic of the collection of tourist or catering activities. So I ask the rhetorical question whether the provision of services referred to in point 1 of Article 10(3), regardless of the duration of not being considered a catering activity, is this statement in the law sufficient for us to be fenced from international conventions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53069	Secretary of State Ante Plasimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53070	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I'm thanking you. Here, I'd like to give you a few answers directly, so I'd like to ask questions immediately. So in the opening statement I mentioned an important state reason is precisely the fact that even our forces in the peace mission should start using red crystal. If that's not enough, I don't know what it is. Because I have repeated in the opening statement that it is being done that Israel has made this proposal, but today the use of the red cross or the red Crescent will be expected, our therefore Croatian soldiers will be used in peacekeeping missions, right on the ground where they are presently. The second thing is, we can't accept it, so we've been looking well at the Act on Tourism Activity, and we can't accept the formulation, so here's what I'm going to do. The Ministry of Health and Social Care participates among other things in the fact that the Croatian Red Cross annually provides a larger amount of children from special categories of population, means children without parental care, which they would say is not available in the law, tourist activity. What he's doing, he's taking them to the sea to the camps and then seven days at a time. And according to the suggestions that came to us when we discussed it... It would turn out that the Croatian Red Cross should pay the tourist organisation to do it because they cannot deal with it because it has been declared a tourist activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What we say when the Croatian Red Cross does so is not a tourist activity and we have introduced it as a provision in this law. On the third hand, you can't talk about the purpose of winning. In fact, we are talking about incomes and expenditures and it can happen that there is an excess revenue over the expenditure to be used, which is not profit but is used for the purpose of humanitarian activity. I think it's profit, and income and expenditure that categories that are fully defined by financial laws, and it shows that the humanitarian organisation can't make a profit, it's quite clear, but that if there's an excess of income that would be good, because it can direct them into its humanitarian work. So the situation, for example, is on the one hand, so we're trying all the time to say that this article 10 is supposed to be becoming controversial right now, and that this could happen to challenge one excess income. On the other hand, we fear that these same societies in other parts of Croatia will not have enough income to function. If so far 131 Croatian Red Cross companies in Croatia have been financed in a way that only 53 received funds from the counties, it is clear that they had to redistribute within companies to ensure the functioning of all 131 societies. What we have done here, which is to ensure that to this day all 131 companies of the Croatian Red Cross can achieve what belongs to them under this law and according to the international conventions for their humanitarian work where we are, and here they can read again and say, we will also accept this amendment of the Health and Social Care Committee, where projects are not listed but therefore the Croatian Red Cross and its structural forms, with the means referred to in Article 1(3), other funds of the unit of local regional self-government according to the contract with the unit. So it's not about projects, it's not about funding, it's about being able to finance beyond what Biocrapin's example is where the Krapina decided, the headship that their society would further finance beyond what was under this law that was so far and which was mandatory. In any case, what needs to be said to the general public, there are a series of actions that we all welcome when they happen. However, when the Croatian Red Cross organizes, we are ready to go there, we are ready to provide principle support, and today when we pass a law like this, then we are constantly trying because of two news articles that I am familiar with, put one cloud of doubt that what we want to ensure by this law to the Croatian Red Cross should be dishonest. I don't think that's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53071	Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53072	My colleagues and colleagues. Every law and every subject can be accessed in at least two ways. We can go bona fide, in the good faith of the promoter, and we can also go to trust in the intensities, in intent, the intentions of what the law wants to achieve. I am starting from the fact that the proposed amendments to this law have been made in good faith and I want to believe that they will contribute to what should seem to me to be an undisputed common goal of all of us, to ensure that one organisation of the Sui Genis social organization such as the Red Cross provides as much quality work as possible in order for them to succeed in carrying out their social mission. In this respect, any proposal to ensure that this mission or the Red Cross is qualified to achieve that mission is welcome. I think it's very good that there isn't and shouldn't be, and there can't be any ideological or party divisions, so we can be dissonant within our own clubs, depending on the approach we're taking. I would have warned of what the predecessors said, said my thoughts. First of all, the question that obviously causes the recommendations and the arguments that can be found, depending on how we read, about what the Red Cross might actually be doing when it comes to border activities or services related to transport, accommodation and insurance of the diet of citizens, clients or what we call it, guardians within the activities of the Red Cross. It is really difficult to draw a clear line between what is an activity that ensures normal functioning and the achievement of the mission. The Red Cross also has an obligation to transport, feed and house people in any way in a state of threat or otherwise in a state of need and not in a position to settle its needs in profit associations, or in profit organisations, companies, etc. etc. There are usually two cases or two Red Cross organizations mentioned here. One is this feeling, and one is Zagreb. The Osijek Red Cross, as far as I know, has a non-swimming training program for which swimming pools are used in Orahovica and it is certain that it is an activity that in itself is not a profit activity. I would have absolutely no objection to paying some kuna, because there are costs and construction and maintenance, and even organising training for unswimming, and the benefit, the social benefit that is achieved at that time is immeasurable. The other day I had a chance to see the data, actually I shouldn't have even seen it, but I know it empirically that in the 1970s and 1980s in the town of Sisak, three, four children drowned in the rivers each year, and since the Olympic pool was built in the 1990s, no child has drowned. The training of non-swimming is of great importance, and in this sense, you know, I'm in favour of not cycling, not getting too involved in proving that the Red Cross Osijek is carrying out a profitable activity, so it needs to be denied or disabled in any way. Another example is the one concerning the Zagreb Red Cross and the children's take from Beslan to a resort in Zagreb's Red Cross, which is also a couple of excellence humanitarian activities, and certainly not a tourist-indicator no matter how, if something was attempted by force or if it were to be looked ill and suspiciously, perhaps it could be taken under that duress. So, the purpose of this intervention and these objects of mine is to enable the Red Cross where he and the organisations that are able to carry out this activity if the intention is not to make some kind of profit in advance or, as counterpart Jerkovic would say, extra profits, and any kuna that is earned by social control mechanisms should be directed towards humanitarian purposes, and nothing terrible has happened either immorally or unfairly. The second question I want to say is what is rightly being warned about. At the board meeting, we had representatives of the Croatian Red Cross who accepted this proposal along with some amendments, such a bill, and I would not want to be more papal than the Pope, nor would you imagine that I care more about the Red Cross than I care about the people who lead the Red Cross. However, I am sincerely concerned whether this statement that we now have in the proposal of the law will provide sufficient funding for the Red Cross's activities in the territory of all Croatia, all municipalities and cities. Maybe it doesn't sound convincing enough to me to interpret the secretary of state that the current bond is, so that zero is five percent of the budget plus zero two for this rescue search service, that as a guarantee that it will now be more secure than at the time when there was a rock from up to. It is simply when looking at the second paragraph of Article 30, I think that this significantly reduces actual income when it is said that under the incomes of the units of local self-government in paragraph 1 of this article, the following revenue is excluded: an additional share of income tax for decentralised functions, is excluded from the aid of balancing for decentralised functions in municipalities and cities on islands, the share of income tax for the joint financing of the capital project from the interest in the development of the island, their own income and dedicated income. Now, you see, these municipalities that can't live without the help of the state, without decentralised funds for decentralised functions, will hardly be able to settle enough funds and for one salary, and I'm not sure that this will seriously hit a large part of the Red Cross community organisations. I therefore propose a conclusion that we would adopt with the proposal of this law, which could read as follows: The Ministry of Health and Social Care of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to monitor and monitor the application of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Red Cross of the Republic of Croatia and to analyse the results and effects of these measures and report to the Croatian Assembly after a year. So this is also in good faith. It may be considered only understandable, but to make a commitment to the ministry if it happens that these funds are not sufficient to immediately approach the amendments to the law so that we do not in any way endanger the functioning of the Croatian Red Cross as a major social organisation of Sui Genis which has immeasurable significance. And a third thing I only want two words about. The Red Cross has filed an amendment that we haven't adopted on the board, and it's about getting rid of the toll collection. You know, the argument given by the State Secretary was going and as some roads were already given in a concession, so who would control these transports if they were really in the function of carrying out the Red Cross activity, which the administration would need to monitor all these together, etc. I think that this would be relatively, in order to establish a relatively decent monitoring mechanism and that the state of Croatia on roads owned by it provides free transport for the Red Cross activity and that the recommendation is given to all concessionaries and to ensure free transport when it comes to the Red Cross and their needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53073	Thank you. Madam Representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53074	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. That, I support the adoption of this law, but with regrets that at all on the Red Cross, at all, raises the suspicions of some profit organization and that it could be such a thing at all, since we ourselves know how humanitarian it works and how much we represent the activities of the Red Cross. The Croatian Red Cross is also recognised as a national society by the Croatian Parliament, it is also recognised by the International Committee of the Red Cross, it is also a full member of the international Federation of the Red Cross and the Red Month Society and is again regulated by international conventions. Of course, this law is in line with the changes and standards in the international community we belong to. We are also aware that for the last 10 years, the increasing activity of the Red Cross and the red Crescent has been due to natural and disaster, due to global warming, due to climate change, frequent disasters that take great proportions of ecological and technological, accidents with the consequences of mass injuries, epidemics of economic and social consequences, etc. Half of the world's total population lives below the poverty line, in poverty and disease, with food shortages and an ever-increasing lack of water. Violence and general uncertainty are on the rise, conferences are being organised around the world to reduce harmful disasters. Women in that area get the most hurt and take the biggest responsibility. The question is whether we at local level are thinking enough and seriously about developing investment at risk of disaster. What the Red Cross offers to defend against disasters and reduce risk and damage is a program that stems from its action during the Homeland War and the Pores, and today we have a network of 130 county and city municipal societies that really have a big diapazon action and help people who are in trouble. This bill also sets out activities that the Croatian Red Cross and its structural forms carry out in accordance with the means and needs of the community, which also relate to the prevention of disease, addiction, provision of accommodation services, nutrition especially for children, various kinds of care and assistance to third-age persons, and programmes for assistance to asylum seekers, asylum seekers and other groups of migrants, as well as victims of human trafficking. The provision of these services and accommodations to the Red Cross facilities and transports really do not think that they should be considered a tourist and catering activity because Article 10 is sufficiently elaborated and includes action and assistance to non-swimmings, children's recovery and youth and socially endangered families and members of the Croatian Red Cross. So I don't see how that profit would be and it's amazing how those two articles give one negative note to the Red Cross's activities. I support the proposal for an amendment to the Red Cross in Article 4(2) where it is proposed to delete the wording of the body, and to add the word to the national society, because I believe that all the provisions of international law and the statutes of the movement of the Red Cross and other acts refer to that name in order to replace the body with the national society. I must also convey concern from the local level, that the funds from the budget of the local self-government units will be significantly reduced, which is also what colleagues are instructed to question their functioning and implementation of this programme, but we have examples where these funds have not been identified, and this law also gives criminal provisions unless these funds are given to the Red Cross. Article 14 of this Act refers to a red sign of the Red Cross used during the armed conflict as a sign of the protection of the sanitary staff of units and means of transport in the manner established by Geneva Conventions. Unfortunately, we witnessed in the past in the Homeland War when the cross, or sign of the Red Cross, did not help the Vukovar hospital despite the sign that stood on the roof that could be seen from the plane, and the Serbs shelled the Vukovar hospital. So they didn't respect when they fired, and they didn't respect it when they fired on the dream of the Belarusian hospital where Dr. Angelko Visic, who then lost his life and was under the sign of the Red Cross. And finally, all praises to the Red Cross activities, the recent tragedy in Haiti confirms the importance of preparing volunteers and residents to act in disasters that we can find ourselves in. The data is that in the first 14 hours on the online donation lines 800 thousand kunas were collected, talking about the sensitization of the Croatian people for the operation of the Red Cross. Congratulations and volunteer Mr. Tihomir Štrečelj from Osijek, retired Croatian Army officer who joined Haiti with emergency response units to the disasters of the Austrian Red Cross specializing in water treatment. A recent example of help from volunteers in Gospić, Metkovic and Plots in the area of Kosinj and the Neretva Valley during the floods speaks of their activities and assistance from the Red Cross. The Red Cross reports speak of the humanitarian and social responsibility of our country which I think is indeed at an envious level and speak of good cooperation of the Red Cross with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the end, we really think, I think we should continue to use the International Committee of the Red Cross to solve problems and search for missing persons, unfortunately that still exist in our homeland after the terrible and terrible Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53075	Thank you. Mrs. Vrbat Tanja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53076	Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53077	And if you'll excuse me, there was a replica, Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53078	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague of Caparin's really well-counted all these activities and the importance of the Red Cross, the societies, and especially mentioning the Homeland War should point out that there was no mercy from the aggressors when they brought help, here in the area of Pacrac, Lipik, and here are the teams from Bjelovar, which in the trucks marked with the red cross, marked with hospital marks brought food and help to Pakrac and Lipik were shelled, unfortunately these guys who drove that aid were rarely and suffered. When we talk about the profit societies of the Red Cross and, of course, they are engaged in certain activities where they earn a few kunas, but they cannot be profitable societies, but they invest in humanitarian activities that they do. So also in the area of the towns of Pakrac and Lipika, a great society of the town’s Red Cross Pakrac, which also deals with the mere kitchen and the House for old and powerless persons, and by organising blood collection from voluntary donors. Of course, there is also a service of demand that remains vital and of great importance in the war - stricken areas. Well only in the area of our 2 cities still 43 of our inhabitants after the Homeland War are being held as missing persons and I hope that with the help of the Red Cross and their remains will soon be found. Here I am giving full support to the presentation of my colleague Caparin, and I suggest that the Red Cross companies must do certain economic activities in order to repair their budget, but each earned kuna they invest in the humanitarian activities of the Red Cross societies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53079	Replicate response, Madame Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53080	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I don't think there really should be a single trace of doubt in the humanitarian activity of the Red Cross. I remember, today is a completely different blood supply, but we were in a situation where we didn't have blood, when only the Red Cross helped us deliver blood. On the other hand, it is unimaginable that in such a struggle and such a terrible situation as Vukovar and a Vukovar hospital, which was full of wounded people, protected by all Geneva Conventions, thus protected by the Red Cross sign, and the Serb army's aggressor was only hitting that hospital. So, in a hospital where there were no weapons or grenades, and our Dr. Visić, Dr. Angelko Visic was under the uniform of sanity and the sign of the Red Cross, so without weapons, his sanity and his first line were shot, and he came to help people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53081	Madam Representative Tanja Vrbat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53082	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow representatives and representatives of the ministry. Here in this debate participates as I noticed more or less health workers and certainly justified and with many concrete examples perform their debate, and I will, as from the perspective of one, say layman in this area, try to say something. As I understand it, it's good that we are passing this Red Cross Act because other than this law, the whole matter is being modernised and aligned with protocols that implement international contracts that represent the Red Cross and the Red Crescent, and today we hear the Red Crystal, there are certain contradictions that I want to pay attention to here. This law defines the Croatian Red Cross as a national, humanitarian and voluntary union of the communities of the Red Cross County societies and associations of the city and municipal societies of the Red Cross, acting on the principle of international law, the Red Cross and the Red Crescent, and enjoys special protection and care of the Republic of Croatia. I must stress the dissatisfaction with the fact that some of the amendments that came from the Red Cross have not been respected in the draft of this law, and I have been particularly approached by the County Red Cross Association in Istria. They are particularly dissatisfaction, with which I can agree, and I fully share this dissatisfaction, with regard to the release of the official vehicles of the Red Cross toll, the tunnel and the Mostarin, which was also here today. Therefore, in my court it is necessary in Article. 36. introduce a provision on the release of payment of tolls for the use of highways and parking facilities for Croatian Red Cross vehicles and for the transport of goods from humanitarian aid and the release of payment of those costs and means of public transport. The means of compensation to public transport operators for the services provided would be provided in the state budget and would be paid in accordance with the rules adopted by the finance minister. I really think that the official vehicles of the Red Cross, I believe there aren't many of them, that they have to be free of these givings because humanitarian work must be free of these givings. It is a common practice in the world where even a number of Red Cross vehicles are provided for special registration marks. It is good in this proposal to finally define and regulate the amount of subsidies to finance the Red Cross at all levels. I'm not getting into these subsidies right now, but it's a good thing that stuff is even regulated. For so far, there have been numerous units of local administrations that have found ways to bypass or issue these subsidies. However, it is even better to define that. The fact that in this proposal of the law we are referring to the percentage of the original revenue, and it has never been well defined that these are precisely the original revenues which are the basis for the calculation of subsidies. In addition, the law did not provide for sanctions for non-payment units until these amendments, so the introduction of sanctions is now commendable. So far, there have been many persuasions and evading obligations towards the Red Cross, to a lesser extent, I am now speaking for the County of Istria, by the county and the cities, and to a much greater extent by municipalities with honorable exceptions. Very often, the form is partially satisfied with the transfer of embarrassingly small amounts in December for the current year. I will not, like other colleagues, look too much at this part of providing tourist and catering services to the Red Cross. Personally, I find that, if that's what we've heard here, it's inadmissible because a humanitarian non-profit organization that is, it really doesn't feel like providing such services. But if there are any examples, this should not be generalized and now announced by law. I believe that's not the case. Today, when our society is in a major economic crisis, when our society is getting poorer and our citizens have increasingly social needs and problems operating on the Red Cross every day is increasingly necessary and demanding. Every day he needs more money, and every day he's getting smaller, unfortunately. Many times we think that the Red Cross can also be financed by applying for example to projects and various competitions both national and international, but they tell me that it is precisely doing this funding regulation that comes from the law that is very often not acceptable as applicants of project proposals in various competitions. Especially those who question our ministries and foundations. I would like to remind this occasion that there is a large number of people working in Red Cross societies throughout Croatia who spend their activities with a large share of volunteer work. We should certainly commend these people on this occasion, thank them for the help they provide for our needy citizens and thank you for the many large and small humanitarian actions that we and internationally participate in. Today, when everything has its price in our society, but almost nothing has a real value anymore, selfless work and commitment to humanitarian and volunteer work should be particularly appreciated and protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53083	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Neda Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53084	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here we have already heard the fact that the reasons for the adoption of the new law are the same as we are learning that at national level, the Croatian Red Cross enjoys special care and protection of the Republic of Croatia. We also know that even as a national society through 131 society works in the counties and cities, acts in accordance with the principles of the International Red Cross and the Red Crescent movement, and fulfils its auxiliary role in the field of health, social care, by acting in response to disasters, with the introduction of a red crystal sign. So it eases human suffering, contributes to improving and protecting health, promotes solidarity and humanity, approaches to man by respecting fundamental human rights and freedoms, regardless of his race, sex, language, religion, national or social origin, political or other belief, birth, education or social position. We have also heard that, in addition to public activities, it participates in the acceptance and care of the endangered and suffering population, it helps the health care service to carry out healthcare especially children and youth, and is particularly working to prevent all forms of addiction. State Secretary Mr. Golem explained on several occasions what special assistance is manifested through food services in the kitchens of the Red Cross, food delivery in the house of old and powerless, which are resorts of the Red Cross and this activity is not considered a catering activity. He provides great assistance to local communities in programmes to help the old and powerless, in the transport of goods for humanitarian purposes, persons with disabilities, voluntary donors of blood and members of the Croatian Red Cross. In addition to public authority, the Croatian Red Cross performs a number of other activities, and I have allowed myself, singled out something that seems particularly important to me, which is the organisation and implementation of the programme of humanistic education of children and youth, the work to adopt the virtues of solidarity, impartiality of compassion, promotion of respect for human life, the development of self-esteem, and life and social skills, good communication, the peaceful resolution of the conflict of teamwork and cooperation. Why I particularly pointed out this, precisely because here in the last few years the Government of the Republic of Croatia together with the Croatian Parliament has adopted a series of legal regulations as well as implementing them on topics that hurt not only Croatia but also other members of the European Union, which are preventing violence among children, and young people, preventing domestic violence, adopting strategic provisions precisely on what draws and damages the entire Croatian man. The legislative proposal sets out and we also heard sources of funding from membership fees and from the state budget of 3 million kunas, subsidies, gifts, then some donations, also agreed programmes, but it is also important to say that units of local and regional self-government have so far failed to meet their obligations, and this proposal of the law clearly resolves that, in the event of non-compliance with their obligations, the same will be sanctioned. The proposal regulates that the basis of life-saving is also heard, states the ecological protection of the coast where 1% of the total funds will come from residence fees. Otherwise, the issue of the work and activities of the Red Cross national law in this part fully harmonizes with the accepted standards in the International Community. Finally, the proposed Law significantly improves both the status and the activity of the Red Cross at national level, so I will support the adoption of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53085	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53086	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, the Red Cross, and especially the Croatian Red Cross, can only be spoken with the chosen words, and this has been evident from today's debate of most speakers, with little thoughts different. Because speaking of an organization that has worked in man’s service for over 130 years, in more than 131 societies, can truly cause only admiration, and praise. But it might be unfair to speak in this humanitarian section to abandon also one organization and that's Caritas. In many areas Caritas and the parish works and contributes to the good of man, and is also engaged to address these needs. As we have heard the work of the Croatian Red Cross on the principles of independence, volunteering, humanity, impartiality and others, each of them would require a special discussion and reflection, but I am particularly concerned with this voluntary donation of blood. In Croatia, the percentage is 3.5% at the national level of blood donation, and I come from the county where there is 8%, and in my municipality there is 9%. So yesterday I welcomed all the firefighters wherever they were, and today I welcome all the willing blood donors wherever they are. It is indeed an activity that deserves admiration and greetings. So, of course, the Red Cross must also be regulated legally, there is this 2001 law, it's all mentioned by the Geneva Conventions, Protocols, etc., that in that part I wouldn't repeat myself much, but there have been circumstances for both this Protocol 3 and these tax moments mentioned by the State Secretary and the Additional Marks, and it's time to change the Law that defines both the humanitarian activity and the public authority and, of course, the financing of which there have been a lot of speeches. Therefore, it should not, but it is certainly good that these public authorities in that part and the rescue and rescue services at sea protection are all defined in part. Small thinkings were in this part of the tourist call touristic i don't think that way. I'm talking about not swimming school or nature school thinking about it that way. Because on the left, too, what I'm thinking is what every saved and every kid taught about swimming, I think it's an invaluable gain. And that's the way to say hello. Of course this article 30. It's a little bit for if everything was driven to thinking, I'd say, article 30 with that. But I hold that this way will surely be solved. Because a colleague thought it was left to the political will that someone wouldn't pay. No, it's not, by this law or pay, or it's gonna be charged. So in that sense, I believe that for sure, let's not be afraid that the Red Cross is going to make some big money come true, but let's think about improving it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53087	Replica Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53088	Thank you. Oh, here's a colleague of mine encouraged me to end up repeating this problem of the tourist activity of the city's Red Cross societies. Let me give you an example. The town society of the Croatian Red Cross Pakrac has a Cvrtčak resort on the island of Vir where it organizes a holiday for children. So I ask the question, is the tourist activity, for example, of the program "Glass of the Good Star" for children with the war of the affected areas of Slavonia, i.e. the towns of Pakrac and Lipik where children learn and swim with a whole series of programs. Furthermore, is the children exchange programme with friendly cities in Slovakia's towns of Pakrac and Lipik with... and Jasenovo in Slovakia in the programme of international cooperation tourism activity, where small Slovaks come to us for vacation, and our children winter over the holidays in Slovakia. At the end of the summer of socially endangered children who each year send and finance the expenses of the towns of Pakrac and Lipik right at the resort of the Croatian Red Cross, where children participate in all day activities and programmes. And if it wasn't for that resort and that Red Cross, a large number of papal and Lipish children would never have seen the sea. So one day, let's clarify this tourist activity of the city's red crosses at their resorts, which I don't think is really the right segment of tourism activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53089	Reply to replica Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53090	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank you, colleague Huška, for this truly quality replica. I congratulate, above all, the Red Cross City Society in Pakrac on such activities. But I also think that this is an example and a way to further motivate, not those 500 thousand volunteers, but to be more. And don't think about it the way it is right now in the Red Cross now it's going to start some big money. Who knows there's an irregularity to report it to those in charge. So I'm certainly a supporter of this kind of activity that I need to contribute to, that those unswimming people dress for sure, and when it happens, you see that every year the largest number of young people get hurt in those troubles. And surely this way and examples are truly commendable and should be further motivated by all those who need to participate in all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53091	Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53092	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. At the beginning I want to express my personal support for the work and activities of the Croatian Red Cross because I think it is an organization of a pair of exellanc. That is why I share the concern that some MPs have said so far, whether the change of this law will in fact lead to sufficient funding of the Red Cross's activities and whether this amendment of the Committee is sufficient to correct this situation. I would also like to express once again the concern of whether this statement regarding possible tourist activities is strong enough to defend the Red Cross against all possible problems, even the application of international conventions. As part of the Red Cross activity, there is also an important activity related to voluntary blood donation, as the Red Cross promotes voluntary blood donation, organises and implements actions of voluntary blood donation, gathers donors, keeps records of them, determines criteria for the recognition of voluntary blood donors and gives them certificates and recognitions. The more voluntary blood donors are also automatically members of the Croatian Red Cross who do not pay membership fees, so this number of nearly half a million members who gather the Croatian Red Cross is so large and because of the fact that there are nearly 180 thousand voluntary blood donors in Croatia who each year give about 160 thousand doses, or more than 70,000 liters of blood. Statistics say that on average 80% of all people need blood or blood preparation at least once in their lives, and the possibility of getting blood is getting harder and harder every day. Croatia also belongs to one of the rare countries in the world where blood donation is organised in a way that is voluntary, that it works and that we do not have more significant problems with blood supplies. 3.8% of the population is involved in these activities and targeted, in fact, the target percentage of the population is about 5%, so we should still fix that statistics. And voluntary blood donors do it out of a sense of social value, they do it for the benefit of society, and the fees are to tell them so on a symbolic level. However, I want to highlight the fact that the Ministry of Health makes it possible and after a certain number of donations, 35 for men and 30 for women and this additional one, they do not pay for participations, so they are additionally secured. Also, many public transport companies provide voluntary blood donors, the truth works in Zagreb only to the unemployed allow free transport in the public transport system. Voluntary blood donors have in companies that have signed collectives, whose workers have signed collective agreements and the possibility of using days off, unfortunately, is an increasingly common situation for employers not to recognise it as a social benefit and refuse to give workers in certain companies the days off. On the other hand, the Institute of Transfused Medicine is highly organized and equipped and enables in collaboration with the Red Cross a great infrastructure to make both donors feel as comfortable and as good as possible during their giving. They also introduced a quality management system of ISO 9001 that ensures that the whole process is done in accordance with international norms and requirements and that all they get there are voluntary donors is one great pleasure, and that times these thank-yous for donated blood. However, I would like to reiterate my concern that this law will reduce the possibility of funding the Croatian Red Cross and all that I have said, especially in the section of voluntary blood donation, will be questioned. I'm a little surprised that we haven't united the debate on another law that's on the agenda under item 25, and there's almost as much of the same title as this law we're discussing now, and we've often brought together much more harmless laws and discussions into one. In any case, we should once again commend the work of the Croatian Red Cross to promote the culture of public goods, to promote work to improve the social status of the most vulnerable groups in the Republic of Croatia, and it is my special honor and pleasure to commend once again the Red Cross for all that it does to promote voluntary blood donation. And I hope that both the Red Cross and the Croatian Institute of Transfusion Medicine and society as a whole will recognise this need to reach the target level of 5% of the population that gives itself to the benefit of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53093	Thank you. Mr. Agent Denesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53094	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to take part in the debate on the proposed content of this law and on the following articles. Article 5, and in particular in the explanation of the material, stressed that the Statute of the Croatian Red Cross will establish structural forms, meaning municipal, city and county societies. I would like to say about this, we are well aware that almost 100 and even 150 municipalities when it comes to municipalities are not ready to implement certain legal regulations or to develop certain programmes. I am afraid that a certain minimum of criteria should be established by law and should be prescribed whether the size of the space or the number of inhabitants where the small municipalities, i.e. the population and the territory of the small ones, could be better organised in rural areas. Here there were highlights from those environments where the Red Cross is extremely functioning on which to only congratulate, but it is not in the whole area such an ideal situation. For that reason, I think maybe you should think about it. I would further like to say just one sentence concerning Article 10(7). I believe that this should be particularly stimulated and provided for by certain means, because if only one life is saved annually, and that's usually what these accidents are about, so to speak, about younger people, it's a big deal. I especially support that. Furthermore, I would like to say a few sentences about financing, or Article 30. Article 30(2) points out which type of tax or amount reduces the basis for the calculation of these 0,2 and 0.5%. The additional part of the income tax for these centralized functions is absolutely logical, however the second item of assistance and balancing for decentralised functions, and in the municipalities and cities on the islands the share of income tax for the joint financing of the capital project of interest for the development of the island. I think this formulation gives little opportunity to reduce perhaps some opportunities and to unjustly reduce this base. But if this is already so in my opinion, then it should be extended and added to the areas of special national concern at least the first category to allow for the reduction of that base. Furthermore, I must admit that I do not understand that the base is being reduced for its own income. So I ask the question which incomes will then remain? What will be the basis at which these rates will be applied? If the total amount of original income I understand it so, if it decreases and for its own incomes, I don't know what these revenues are to which these rates will apply. I may not quite understand it, but it's not my clearest and dedicated income. It's something else that you might also need to clarify a little bit. Here, otherwise I absolutely support the full text of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53095	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Marinović Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53096	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Until the entry into force of this current Law on the Croatian Red Cross, international humanitarian law has already developed long since 2001, and among other things, as has already been said here, the third supplementary protocol of the Geneva Conventions, which speaks of an additional sign of recognition. This additional sign of recognition of the red crystal which, therefore, was introduced by the additional protocol of the National Society of the Red Cross, the International Federation of the Red Cross and the Red Crescent Society and the International Committee of the Red Cross under certain circumstances can also be used as a sign of recognition. The red crystal therefore provides the same protection as the signs of the red cross and the red half moon. In an official report on the results of the conference that has just been on the state of play, and also on future progress, it has been said, so let me quote that national societies, and this is particularly important given the provision that I think this is Article 1 of the existing Article 4 where the body introduces. I think that the amendment should react as I have done and that there is no way to talk about the Red Cross about the body, but about national society as well as all international conferences and conventions speak. In that official report, it is literally said. National societies have a unique mandate, which is founded and ensured by the fact that they are countries which join Geneva Conventions and which are founded by the Statute of the Movement and other resolutions of the International Conference. National societies do public work in the field of humanitarian action, helping not only citizens, but also authorities in their own country. In the general interest, the state, effective protection and security of the action so that national societies can continue to carry out these activities under the conditions which the State determines and creates and which are based on international agreements and resolutions of the Red Cross conferences, including the principles of the Red Cross. In the past ten years, there have been significant changes in the action of the Red Cross and the Red Crescent movement, conditioned by the real state and needs of the world population. In this regard, we can point out that the most significant climate change, the frequent disasters, and the natural disasters of large scales, epidemics, unfortunately armed conflicts, migration, technological pollution due to almost no awareness of major international corporations and the weaknesses of states to limit them to that. It seems as the global process has been the movement of goods, the movement of capital, the movement of services, that the only answer to this is the global response of all countries to stop these often raving corporations that behave because they can behave that way. So there's also a space for the Red Cross to operate. Greater expectations and successful interventions of the national Red Cross and the Red Crescent require, of course, better legislation to ensure a sufficient number of interested volunteers, but also basic material resources for their organised humanitarian activity. It's nothing to argue with. I just wanted to mention a little more of these reports of international conferences, as well as principles, but also the need for the Red Cross to work over time is getting bigger and unfortunately not less. In the debates so far, a fundamental dispute has emerged over whether abuses are possible. Unfortunately, there is no such good activity that cannot be misused and no one can and no profession in advance claim that a priority is immune from the abuse of any kind. That's why the law should be good. The law is not passed in bad faith or in good faith, but the law must always be such that it is applicable in the everyday personnel combination. That is why I have submitted the amendment, first of all, to what I was saying in Article 4(2), so that our Red Cross is not called a body, but a national society. So there's no dilemma. Article 10, that is, its third was caused by a lot of opposition in public, but also here amongst us. I think this problem can be very, very simple to solve. Therefore, it is quite understandable that the Red Cross is also doing all the activities, praising the valuable activities that are numbered in the whole article 10 and on its own in paragraph 3. However, in order to eliminate any possibility of abuse or any kind of blindness that would point to some commercialisation of these excessively necessary activities for the purpose of the humanitarian role of the Red Cross itself, it is especially indicated that all these schools in the nature and training of non-swimmings and the recovery of children and youth unfortunately need to be aware that not only the flood of hepatitis is among our population especially younger. Unfortunately, it's only after 10, 15 years than it's knocking on our necks again as a disease of the poor. We know that in the past, the Red Cross has always played a great colossal role in this regard after the wars. But to say remove any one of those, some kind of look, that there's a Red Cross to deal with or be able to deal with some kind of profitable catering, even though all of these activities can have some kind of like nature. But that is why I have made an amendment to remove such a suspicion and that it is particularly clear that these activities in item 3 are free of charge. They're usually meant to be, but it doesn't occur to anyone that he's just acting by the principles of profit, which is strictly forbidden to all societies, especially the Red Cross. Here's what I'm proposing is that we remove some of the doubts and doubts that have arisen in public that this is particularly apostrophe. In addition, these benefits listed in the paragraph, just a moment, which is the article, in Article 36, are listed all of the benefits that the Red Cross has, I think, too, necessary to add another point to free the Red Cross from paying toll for the use of highways and objects with the collection of those vehicles, because its strength is in its mobility, therefore not only that, regardless of the individual societies in certain environments, its duty is precisely in the light of the nature of the users, i.e. the age of the users who are helping to use roads, highways and should be free of these fees, i.e. the same tolls themselves, so that it can be truly fully in the fullness of those legislative powers that are here and this law could fulfil that task. There was also talk here to reduce the incomes of the Red Cross and that's exactly what it is. Therefore, in Article 10, the proposer needs to think a little bit about what this paragraph 2 and 3 is, therefore, concerning what counterpart Vidovic also said, the effective functioning of the Red Cross in certain environments. We see that the units of local self-government are different obvious consciences and consciences, which is first of all left to the conscience of those who run those units of local self-government, but it was one significant income for the work of the Red Cross and should think about it, but in any case follow-up, as proposed by counterpart Vidovic, the effects of this reduction, and then in the foreseeable future if it is not possible to immediately change the way to think about it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53097	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53098	Is there a quorum? Okay, thank you. Let's see how much quorum we have. 92. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. We move to the agenda point Final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Red Cross, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 534. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The review of the amendment has been submitted to you on benches. I'd like a representative of the motionary, Mr. Secretary of State Antu Zvonimir Golem, to be shown about the amendments. We are going to the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives, Amendment No 1 to Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53099	Thank you, Mr. President. It's unacceptable. The foothold for the definition of the Croatian Red Cross as an independent and voluntary body is in Resolution 2 with 30. International Conference of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement held in Geneva in 2007 which, among the 193 delegations of the countries of the Geneva Convention, also accepted the delegation of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53100	The Legislative Committee, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53101	The reason for writing this amendment was to equate the termologically in the articles themselves with an independent and voluntary association, so that it is not technically harmonised. However, if the promoter insists on these reasons we have heard, we withdraw it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53102	Amendment 1 has been withdrawn. The Legislative Committee. 2. Amendment by Ms Ingrid Antičević-Marinović to Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53103	It's unacceptable. The same explanation as in Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53104	Mrs. Anticevic-Marinović, please. ... He's retreating. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This amendment has been withdrawn. 3. The Committee on Health and Social Care on Article 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53105	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53106	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 4. Amendment of MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinovići to Article 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53107	It's unacceptable. The means for that purpose shall be provided in accordance with Article 30 of the Law of the Units of Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government and in one part of the Fund can also be participatory so that it is impossible to add an article and free of charge to all users.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53108	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53109	I'm sorry that the Secretary of State didn't even read my amendment, because I'm not talking about sources of funding here, I'm only asking because it's precisely something that caused major recommendations in public, to be quite transparent that these services that are not considered catering activities, which is quite good, but they can't be charged for the very end-users. And what's the big deal? Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53110	Who is for this amendment please raise your hand. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5, the representative of Mr Goran Beus Richembergh in Article 10(1).
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53111	It's unacceptable. The amendment is not accepted because the organisation of a school in nature is in line with the basic objectives of the Croatian Red Cross as set out in Article 3 of the Law, which contributes to improving and protecting health and providing health and environmental culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53112	Mr. Beus Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53113	Unfortunately, schools in nature are structured, prescribed and defined ways of implementing part of the educational programme of the official school and as such have nothing to do with a mission defined by international regulations and national regulations on the Croatian Red Cross. It is therefore a programme which is technically implemented under the Act on the Tourist Activity of the Tourist Agency and the providers of accommodation services. Therefore, it does not belong to the Croatian Red Cross. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53114	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Six. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53115	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53116	This amendment becomes an integral part of the proposal. 7th Amendment of MP Ingrid Antičević Marinović to Article 36(1)
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53117	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the release of tolls for the use of highways cannot be regulated legally by concessionaries, so it was only possible in the part where the state as such has highways.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53118	Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53119	It is simply not true, because if the Government were really going to help the Croatian Red Cross then she would find her own funds in the budget and pay the concessionaries for this purpose. Much more developed countries, which then and richer dominate the Red Cross themselves and have a richer population, which can also finance the Red Cross free from toll. Here's the best example for you, next-door Italy, which just drove the Red Cross free of all highways. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53120	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I am now voting on the Final Proposal of the Law on the Croatian Red Cross. Can we get back online, I'm trying to. Can we get on board and see if we have a quorum? At least when the law is passed. 90. We can. Please, so we have a quorum. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was adopted by a majority of 77 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and one against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53121	Next item, we will skip the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Roads, to prevent the representatives from being represented. We are going to the next item - - The report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for the year 20009 is submitted by the Government. The government submitted a report on the basis of Article 25. The law on the right to access information. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Proposer representative, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration Edmond Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there is a report before you on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2009. The legal basis for this report is the Law on the right to access information. The very text of the report was drawn up on the basis of the information provided by the bonds of this report, so these are bodies with public powers. The report points to certain problems in the application of the Law on the right to access information, but also to the possibility of certain directions to address these problems. The law itself was passed in 2003, and one positive fact can be found about increasing awareness of the delivery of information from public law. However, there is still a certain number of problems that we can see from this percentage of bodies that have submitted their reports, on the basis of which this sublimed report was made. So, for example. Only 50, 44% of local self-government units submitted their information access rights reports. When we talk about the problems arising from the application of the Law on Access to Information, which are mentioned in the report, it should be pointed out, in any case, that, on the basis of the public authorities, it is an unfair solution to the request, it is not a solution to the refusal of the application, it is an unequal act in the application of the law, and it is an unlawful submission of annual reports to the Ministry of Administration which must then be brought together and sent to the Government, or to the Parliament. On the part of the authorising officer, therefore those seeking access to certain information or seeking certain information, the practice of searching for information which is not considered to be information and further abuse of the provisions of the law regarding the request for information relating to the resolution of personal proceedings to be decided in administrative or judicial proceedings, and this information is available by applying the General Administrative Procedure Act or the Criminal Procedure Act. This report is based on a total of 3 thousand 173 requests received by public authorities. Out of that number, 2 000 867 applications were accepted, and 185 requests were rejected, 75 applications were granted, and 46 were unresolved. The general tendency shows that there are fewer requirements than the previous year, which is also the result that, that public authorities publish their information on official websites and anything previously requested as information can be seen directly on the public authorities' websites. As a consequence of all these problems listed in this report, and also in previous years reports, the Ministry of Administration together with other interested participants in this process, which are also the civil sector, to amend and supplement the Law on the right to access information in which certain shortcomings observed in the application of the law so far would be addressed. So the meaning of the concept, so the definition of the body of the public authority, is explained. Furthermore, to further clarify the concept of what it is, what is considered to be information that can be sought. Also a new concept relating to the test of public interest and proportionality in the case of short information, improving the administrative process. Thus, the introduction of a real two-stage course and what is very important and based on international practice. It is also proposed to introduce the Commissioner for Information automatically. So this is an institute that is represented in comparative legislation, as well as in some countries in the environment. The Commissioner for Information who would then be an independent body and through which one more effective and better way could... to access information. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is a number of short information on this report which also has a large part of the graphic part from which information on the number of requests, the number of requests solved and the number of denied applications can be accurately seen. If there are any further questions, I am willing to answer them and I suggest you adopt such a text of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53123	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53124	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us, I think this is the third, fourth, fifth report, sixth or fifth? I think the fifth report on the law on the implementation of the law on the right to access information. I don't think there's any need to point out the importance of this problem and this matter, which is ultimately defined in Art. 19. General declarations of the right of man. So it can be considered that the right to access information is slightly becoming the fundamental human right. I de facto right to access information is the best indicator, so the level of right to access information is the best indicator of the openness of a society, and the automatic and thus control of public authorities. Especially today in this time in which we live, so when on the one hand you have more and more requirements for general control, for general surveillance. So, to narrow down people's rights. On the other hand, we also have an example like this where the right to access information must be a fundamental civil, or human right. Now that I look at this report for the past year, I have to admit that there is no, in my opinion, unlike the ministry that is pleased with this report and which we suggest we adopt no place of pleasure. I'm going to try to actually make the basic arguments that seem crucial and important to me that this report can't satisfy us in that sense after six years, now it's going to be six years of implementation of this law. Here, let's say, when you look at the first report we had for 2004. At that time, you were about 19.5 grand in demand of the right to access information. Now I could just say, that's the effect, the first time the law was passed, so people went to a little test of this how it all worked together, so there were probably some kind of NGO going to check how the law works. But look, I don't think it goes into my head that it's been reduced six times in four years. If it had fallen in half, I would have figured it out somehow, but you have a situation to say in 2008 there were only 2730 demands. There were about 3173 of them this year. However, when we look at how many public authorities have submitted their reports, then you come up with frantic data. That only 668 public authorities provided the necessary information. So, if you consider what all the public authorities in Croatia are, then you get to some number, almost if not here and through me I don't know, the Ministry will correct me, about 4,000 bodies. Now, how is it possible that less than one quarter of the public authorities respect certain legal obligations, so they do not report to the Ministry on the implementation of this law? Obviously, there's a certain feller in the current law. Now you see, if less than one quarter based on less than one quarter of the public authority's information a picture is created, or a report on the implementation of a law I don't understand how this law can be relevant? Listen, it's over 50%, at least 1%, then I'd be satisfied, so I could say that this research is relevant. With that before you see that some data is incorrect. I don't know, you've probably all had opportunities to read the GONG analysis, they state there by saying, I don't know, Croatian roads in Zadar, HAC etc., which have actually faked data on the right to access information. That's what we need to worry about. So, I think we can't possibly be satisfied with this way, I've tried to test a few specific situations and in fact in several municipalities we sent over last year requests for access to information and I have to tell you that none of the municipalities have responded to these three and it's now in court, but those municipalities haven't sent you a report on the implementation of this law, so I could simply say that at least three times as many requests for information, so by calling this law was in circulation. On the other hand, we have a problem with the fact that those who do not apply to the Law do not include such information and such information in this Law. Therefore, you should probably think carefully about the following, and this is that the Law which now has certain shortcomings, i.e., should probably be given a view that there have been certain conventions and declarations, etc., that it should go to the amendment of this Act. It's actually been said for two years that there will be an amendment to this law, but unfortunately, we have no suggestion and no information about it. What needs to be done is that both the Ministry and the Government in our SDP should undertake wider activities in terms of the training of the public authorities themselves above all and therefore implement this Law, and then from the Ministry itself to control this Law, and on the other hand, education of citizens in terms of what and what is the procedure when they ask for their right to access information. You have another piece of information that also says that something is wrong, which is that we have an increasing number of requests to the court. We know what the administrative procedure is, how complex this procedure is, and now that the citizen knows if he loses that dispute he will have to pay 1000 kuna, so no one is actually taking further steps towards achieving those rights. I think after all these years, the implementation of these laws, so if you want some other laws, the law on the confidentiality of data, etc., maybe it's matured time to make access to this problem, which is that all these laws are put together and try to see what and how and how to comply with these laws. Because on the one hand you have a growing demand for the protection of the confidentiality of information, and on the other, regardless of this information, you have more and more requests for access to information. What has never revived in Croatian legislation is so-called a test of public interest, we had something in the Privacy Act, however, it was never used as far as I knew it. Therefore, we should start to think about it seriously. If you remember the SDP a few years ago in the parliamentary procedure, keeping in mind all these problems I spoke about and keeping in mind the position on the need to raise these rights to a higher level proposed by the Commissioner's Law. I don't know why the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia refuse to introduce an institution of commissioners, we can call it somehow different for information. For a simple reason, it would make it easier for the ministry to work and what is most important would be an independent institution that would deal with this problem. I know that the Slovenians made a big step in this space the moment they introduced the Institute of Information Commissioners. Let's say, you actually have a story about the defense registry. So there were different dilemmas, whether it is the public's interest to publish the register or not. Of course, government institutions all claimed that there was no public interest and the need for public interest to be published, on the other hand the opposition and the non-governmental sector has repeatedly insisted that there is a public interest to make it public. You see, if we had, in this case, the Commissioner for Information as an independent institution freed from the pressure of the Government, and on the other hand, the NGO would then, in that judgment, or an assessment of the need and the existence of public interest, be actually easier and more credible to establish. So my suggestion to consider, I hope that this will soon come on the agenda of the new legislative proposals. In fact, it must clearly install a test of public interest, that is to say, to consider whether or not the Commissioner is being introduced, whether an independent body that will ultimately be a guarantee that this Law or a better Law will be better implemented. So, I'm resuming, the SDP Club can't accept a report like this by us, because it's not a report on the state of things, but it's a report on the part of the state of things, and I think it would be unserious to take it like this, and also because part of the data in that law is incorrect, it's an additional reason not to vote for it, or to be against it. It is not our intention, any other than to try the Government's institutions, the Ministry makes them go with concrete proposals to raise the level of this right, or to establish control. Look, we have situations that especially in smaller municipalities, even councillors sitting in these municipalities cannot obtain official papers. At the end of the day here in the Assembly, let's say that some Parliamentary representative asks for some kind of document that has the mark of secrecy of any secrecy to come to it. Although the Constitution states that a parliamentary representative has the right to all information, let's say, the Vice-President of the Assembly can make a decision, for example, on the Committee on the Constitution and legislation, that there is no right to insight. These are some things that in mature democracies are unacceptable. We therefore propose, among other things, that the Ministry, and this report best shows, take seriously to work, or the Ministry or I don't know any working group, a new law, but that it must be put in line with a number of other laws that restrict the right to access information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53125	Thank you. One correction by Mrs. Susana Bilic-Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53126	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to correct with satisfaction a fellow Lucin who did not listen to me as I whispered in my voice and thereby violated the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, and several times I quote: "This is the fifth in a row of reports the Government has submitted on the implementation of the Law on the right to access to information". A colleague, Lucin 6, was passed in 2003, for the first time in 2004. You have enough fingers on both hands. A colleague agreed. Six is the report. It's because of the public that a colleague from the SDP doesn't misinformed the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53127	Club of HDZ Representatives Mr Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53128	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of my presentation on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I would like to point out that the HDZ Club supports the 2009 report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information. It is estimated that it is a methodological quality transparent, numbered indicators supported by a report which in a clear and transparent way gives a presentation of the requests submitted for access to information and gives information on the provision of information by the public authority. As regards the way in which the requirements can be resolved, they may be accepted, they may be rejected. In this case, a decision is taken to reject and state the reasons for the refusal which is clearly seen from the supported examples, the review of work in public authorities. We can freely say that progress is visible in the exercise of the right to access information given the fact that 91% of all applications submitted have been adopted. Freedom of information, and thus the right to be made available to the information available by public authorities, is one of the fundamental human rights which, apart from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Convention on Access to Information, and international agreements. The basic objective of the Law on the right to access information, adopted at the end of 2003, is to enable and ensure the right to access information to natural and legal persons through the open and public action of the public authority, which also enables the control of their work. The law provides the authorising officer with an equal position in the exercise of the right to access information to public authorities, while the right to access can only be limited in cases and in the manner prescribed by law. Legal provisions also provide for a way of exercising the right to information. The proposaler's assessment is a report that the law is not yet known to the general public, so it should be done to increase its application in matters of general importance and interest. According to the 2009 report, public authorities received 3 000 173 requests for access to information, of which 2 thousand 867 applications were accepted, 185 requests were rejected, 76 requests were granted, and 46 requests were pending. As compared to previous years, the number of requests has been reduced to make sure that the availability of information to the public authority is made available in other ways. For example, public authorities publish information on their websites, official pages, media and others. Access to the requested information shall also be made possible by providing direct information to the authorising officer, by providing an insight into documents containing the requested information, by delivering prestigious documents and by other means. The public authorities shall have other obligations relating to the provision of information such as the obligation to designate a special official for the resolution of the right to access information, the setting up of a catalogue of information, the keeping of an official register on the rights of access to information, the reporting of the right to access information that is regulated through the internal organisation of the implementation of these obligations, and shall collect data and be at an enviable level of enforcement. In the part of the report dealing with law enforcement and in the part of the assessment of the situation, the report shall address objective difficulties in law enforcement, measures and actions taken by the Ministry of Administration in order to make the law more effective. The activities include seminars for information officers in the central authorities of the state administration, units of local and regional (regional) self-government bodies. In connection with the difficulties, the report also contains concrete measures to improve the existing situation through amendments and additions to the law in such a way as to better regulate the concept of the public authority body itself in order to supplement it to all users of the state budget, more specifically to regulate the procedure relating to the decision to reject requests for access to information, and to bring the existing provisions of the law in line with the newly adopted General Administrative Procedure Act. The report found that 44.62% of units of regional and regional self-government did not provide reports on the implementation of the 2009 law. Such a situation should be sanctioned by future amendments and additions to the law. The report also covers certain negativity on the part of the rightholders of information, so that it happens that the authorising officer is looking for information that is not considered information. The abuse of the law is also recorded in order to request information relating to the resolution of personal procedures to be decided in administrative or judicial proceedings. For the sake of all the above, the HDZ Representatives' Club is of the opinion that this report should be supported, but in order to make better use of the law, further efforts should be made to address the perceived shortcomings, primarily through its amendments and additions, which are one of the measures of the action plan with the Corruption Prevention Strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53129	Thank you. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53130	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the motionary. It's true that this is the sixth report to be filed, but I would compare it to those previous two I've seen and talked about, which we've received in our current mandate. This report is worrying for a number of reasons, because it is neither in approach nor in form, nor in content or in final assessments, in fact not sufficiently different from the reports we have received in the last two years, and this is one practice that we could call inadmissible and inadmissible. Because neither this nor the previous reports were able to answer the question whether and how the Law on the right to the availability of public information and that the central authority of the state administration since last year is the ministry, made examples of bad practice to be contained and allowed citizens to exercise the law of established rights. The weak recommendations that are otherwise covered by this report do not provide any guarantees that the situation will soon change, just as the recommendations from previous reports have neither been followed nor submitted, but as well as the recommendations and discussions from the Croatian Parliament of the past years have not actually yielded any fruit at all. What's the problem? The law has required all bodies with public authority, and there are as many as 4 thousand in Croatia, to give citizens timely and quality insight into public information and to report regularly every year through the Ministry of Administration of the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of this law. Not only does 8 out of 10 bodies with public powers completely ignore their legal obligation, but in fact such a report gives us incompleteness, and thus a completely false picture of the real state of implementation of this law, i.e. the real state and level of exercise of the rights that citizens have under this law. It is almost scandalous that public authorities are practically ignoring the demands of citizens in which the applicant does not call for the right laid down by this law. And who's to blame? Not less than or more than just the body responsible for the public administration, so the ministry that has not yet withdrawn a few years old guidebook that has been sent to all bodies with public authority, saying that when a citizen speaks and requests information, if no explicit calls on this law, this is not considered a requirement to be addressed as the right to access public information. This is not only amazing in the context of Croatian legislation because there is no such thing in any other law established in law but neither broader. Furthermore, as two years ago, the central state office has publicly pledged to come very soon with a proposal to amend and supplement this law that will fill out legal gaps and fail to be seen in practice so that this law is not misused, not played out, not ridiculed, but respected. Time has shown that Mr. Palaric, who was at the head of that body, should not be trusted. A note by the ruling majority here rewarded him with a seat in the Constitutional Court. But unfortunately, since last year's ministry that grew up in the central office seems to be holding on to the same practice. I ask once more, when will you be more free from the legacy of Secretary of State Palaric? Furthermore, a weak pattern of about 17% and not randomly selected, not chosen but only those who have fulfilled their legal obligation are now offering us as a representative sample from which we should read the true state of affairs. This is absolutely impossible, because if almost 83% of all bodies with public powers completely ignore their obligation to report on how they conduct it, it is clear that there is a reasonable doubt that they are not carrying it out at all. What happened to any body with public authority, any head of a body with public powers that, for example, has not fulfilled its legal obligation over the past three years? Has one of the only leaders of the public authority been denied a single wage lip because of this? Of course not. There's no coincidence for them. Take, for example, the following. Head of the Municipality of Stari Mikanovci Tadija Orlović, for example. For years not only has it denied citizens the information they have the right to demand, but it has not for years provided the municipal council with elementary city documents on their own, I don't know how many times repeated requests. And not only that, but at the meeting of the Municipal Council, it takes away the council minutes, lights are turned off, batins are brought in and municipal councils are beaten. After all, the State Attorney's Office submits, or the police file criminal charges, the State's Attorney's Office rejects them, directs council members to private lawsuits and what they would say in Dalmatia, eats a donkey wolf. And what does the government do? To the definitely identified situation that violates the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Institutions, the Law on Pre-school Education, the Budget Law responds by disbanding the Municipal Council. He rewards the mayor of the municipality, the bully, and punishes the Municipal Council. If this is what the state does in this case, what can citizens expect in the process of exercising their right? So if we are not aware that the realisation of this right is a prerequisite that citizens can at all exercise any other public law, or their right to public bodies, then we cannot talk at all about legal security and the rule of law being able to advance. 83% of public authorities include courts, state attorneys, city and municipal administrations, county administrations of public enterprises, ministries, agencies, state offices. Eighty-three percent of them haven't responded in years or reported how they've implemented this law. That's defeating. Every year, GONG conducts a special analysis, a comparative analysis that actually checks how correct the Central Authority report is and every year happens to catch this report in a lie or in a hairstyle and nothing. It's been three years since we've heard the saga that the secretary of state stands for today. We're preparing changes and additions. How many round tables are organised on which are determined what are the critical points of this law, where the areas in which abuse goes, where the zones where it is completely inconclusive, should be entered to be effective and nothing to anyone. We've been listening for three years to come up with a new bill. So four hours of work can prepare changes and additions to this law. And what is very important is it is amazing to completely ignore the European Charter of Rights of Access to Public Documents from 2008. Because this practice that we have and which you cover I don't believe you're happy with. I'm sure you didn't, because you're ashamed here, not those who didn't deliver the report. The situation is inadmissible and therefore the Croatian People's Party club will not only accept this report and support it, but also invites the Croatian Parliament to reject it and return it to the Ministry of Administration for Co-operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53131	One correction, Mr. Representative Petar Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53132	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct an incorrect assumption where in the Old Mikanovites it's not working well. The chief's doing his job well, since the municipal council wants the municipality to fail to function, there's been a decommissioning. There will be new elections, but the municipal council has sued the chief where the State's Attorney's office has dropped all charges and that it's an unconstitutional lawsuit, so you're not a well-informed colleague. The municipal council actually went on a disbandment on purpose because it was a stalemate, and there things haven't been right for years. If HDZ gets a mayor, it's not good if he gets a council. There's always something going on and the chief doesn't deceive the public, the chief does his job well.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53133	House of Representatives Club of HSS, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53134	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. In the opening part of this report, the Proposer points out that freedom of information, and thus the right to have information available to public authorities, is one of the fundamental human rights which, apart from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, are also prescribed by the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Convention on Access to Information, and international agreements. The openness and public work of the public authorities towards the society in which they operate is one of the fundamental assumptions of democratisation and modern society, the fight against corruption, and the application of basic legal, social, economic postulates. Furthermore, it is pointed out that the right to access information is based on principles that must be respected by public authorities in law enforcement, by interested public authorities to make any information held, available or supervised by public authorities available. It is also necessary to inform the public authority of the right to information whether the requested information is available. The bodies of the public authorities are obliged to provide, i.e. to publish full and accurate information. The authorised authority may freely dispose of the information provided and shall make it publicly available. The report also sets out data presenting the work of the public authorities in order to comply with their obligations under the provisions of the law on the right to access information. The data analysis, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the right to access information, determines progress in the exercise of rights, given that 91% of all applications submitted have been adopted. The treatment of requests for access to information also indicates the openness of the public authority to communicate with the rightholders of information, which is an indicator and the achievement of positive objectives and the purpose of the law. Despite certain negatives observed in law enforcement, public authorities' work is assessed as satisfactory with regard to the transparency and accessibility of the public, given the information available to them by means of their own and official websites, official newspapers, and other media. The applicant also states that public authorities have often been confronted with the abuse of the law by the same authorising officers who have requested the same or similar data or data to be supplied to the same or similar authorities, which do not constitute information within the meaning of the law, thereby making the regular work of the public authority more difficult. The most significant negatives observed in the application of the law of the public authority refer to: unlawfully resolving the request, not making a solution to the refusal of the request, unequal treatment in the application of the law, unfair delivery or failure of any annual reports to the Ministry of Administration. 44% of units of local and regional (regional) self-government have not submitted reports on the implementation of the 2009 law. The report provided found that certain public authorities do not charge administrative fees on requests for access to information contrary to the Administrative Tax Act. The most significant negatives observed in the application of the Act of Authors are: searching for information which is not considered information within the meaning of the law, and then misappropriating the law in order to seek information relating to the resolution of its personal procedures to be decided in administrative or judicial proceedings, which are available to them by the application of the General Administrative Procedure Act or by the Law on a litigation procedure. It should be recalled that the Law on the right to access information also contains criminal provisions relating to those who do not respect this law in a certain way. However, the report did not provide information on penalties imposed, nor on the funds collected in this way, although the applicant warned of a lack of powers to take measures and actions against public authorities which are not subject to the administrative supervision of the specific rules set out. The proposal further assesses that the law is not yet sufficiently known to the general public for which it is still insufficiently applied to matters of general interest and importance. In order to improve the application of this law in the time to come, further efforts should be made to eliminate all the perceived negativeities primarily through its amendments and additions and then by the exercise of supervision of its application and by public authorities. In relation to the legal authority of the exercise of supervision in the application of the law, the competent authority does not have the same power to take measures and actions to public authorities which are not subject to the administrative supervision laid down rules on the system of state administration and local or regional self-government. This would also make it more relevant to monitor the implementation of the law and to establish for the relevant central authorities, who in their part have the power to control the exercise of the activities of legal persons with public authority, all of this to ensure the purpose and objective of the law, or achieve as much transparency as possible in the work and availability of the public authority and the general public, in particular to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia as possible. The Croatian Peasant Party's Club also received GONG's analysis of this report, given that the HSS Representatives Club has no further knowledge of the implementation of the Law on Access to Information, other than this report, we consider it necessary to mention GONG's objections as further information and further knowledge, in fact as one correction that can significantly help as a possible guideline for improving, not only this and future reports but also the overall situation on access to information rights. GONG points out that the report is based on a small number of data provided and that it is a particularly worrying fact that units are local and regional self-government among those who do not supply data. This observation by the Ministry of Administration should certainly be taken into account and carefully considered, which is more so than the Ministry itself has cited this problem as one of the most significant negatives in the application of the law of the public authority, and in the announced amendments and additions to the laws propose measures that will result in positive shifts, and also permanently address this problem. And in conclusion, it should be said that only the report indicates that in the field of realisation of the right to access information certain shifts are being made for the better, although there are still a number of elements to work on. In this regard, the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support this report and we expect the announced amendments and additions to the law, but also to take other measures to make the availability of information to the general public as simple and up-to-date as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53135	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative of Shime Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53136	Thank you very much. I'm going to correct an incorrect quote, which is that this report is making progress. Well, the report itself shows no progress. For example, last year, 688 public authorities submitted their reports, and last year 748 public authorities submitted their reports. So in this year, in the last year, we have 60 public authorities less that have submitted their reports. Now, I don't know if anyone in this House can believe at all that 13 counties have not received any demands from citizens, that 230 municipalities have not received any demands from citizens, and that more than 40 cities have not received any demands from citizens. After all, this report also says the following, which is that there is an increase in the number of appeals to the court. If there is an increase in the number of appeals to the court, this means that public authorities do not fulfil their obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53137	Individual debate, Ms. Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here, as we have already heard today before us, the report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information and, at the beginning, here is to mention several basic concepts that the right to access information available by public authorities is one of the fundamental human rights protected by the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as well as the Convention on the Access of Information, International Contracts and Provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In 2003, the Croatian Parliament passed the Law on the right to access information, and the aim of this law is to enable and ensure access to information to natural and legal persons through openness, public action by the public of the public authority. The law lays down the principle of public, free access to information in such a way that all information they possess and which they have or which are supervised by public authorities must be made available to interested rightholders of information. The supervision of the implementation of the Law on the right of access to information shall be carried out by the Ministry of Administration, and the competent authority shall exercise the right to access information, to submit an oral or written request to the competent authority of the public authority. This 2009 report shows that public authorities received 3 000 173 requests in 2009 for access to information, of which 2 000 and 867 were accepted, 185 requests were rejected and 46 remained unsolved while 75 applications were granted. The report also shows how many applications were received, so individually, how many were accepted, how many were rejected, how many were granted and how many had not been solved, and we can also see that some of the requests are also described. Since the right to access information is extremely important in the Republic of Croatia, it is also important that the Ministry of Administration monitors the implementation of the law continuously throughout the year. We have already heard here today that public authorities have often been confronted with the abuse of this law and that in such a way as to encourage the right to access information by calling on the provisions of the Law on the right to access information, they are trying to resolve their administrative and judicial proceedings by seeking information, which is not, in fact, information in terms of the definition of information in accordance with the Law on the right to access to information. As a result of the importance of access to information, the Government concluded in 2008 that every 3 months, all authorities of the state administration were to submit reports on the implementation of the Law on the right to access to information. From the analysis of all reports, especially in the way of deciding on the applications submitted, progress has been made in achieving the right to access information since 91% of all applications submitted have already been adopted here today. The procedure under the requirements for the right to access information indicates the openness of the public authority to communicate with legal information authorities, and there is also an indication of the achievement of the positive objectives and the purpose of the law. For the purpose of proper implementation and application of the law, the Ministry of Administration has taken a number of measures and actions to make the law more effective. In addition to drawing up a joint annual report, one of the activities of the Ministry of Administration is also the development of quarterly reports on the implementation of the law and the basis of the previously mentioned conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, during 2009, the Ministry of Administration also collected information on the appointment of officials relevant for the resolution of the right to access information in state administration bodies and units of local and regional self-government as well as decisions on the establishment of a catalogue of information. Based on such data collected, 92% of the state administration's bodies have established catalogues of information and appointed information officers. That 100% of the county as a unit of regional self-government also established catalogues of information and appointed information officers. 84.25% of the towns in the Republic of Croatia have established catalogues of information and appointed information officers and more than 78% of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia have established catalogues of information and appointed information officers. Those units that did not do so have reason to state that it is very small units of local self-government with a small number of employees and that they are not able to hire another person to appoint information officers or that they do not see the need for additional public information. When we discussed the 2008 report last year, most of us MPs here pointed to the need to amend and supplement the Law on the right to access information. This report shows that the Ministry of Administration is making changes and supplementing laws which will better regulate the concept of the public authority by supplementing this concept to all users of the state budget, and then prescribing a test of public interest and proportionality in the event of short information, in particular the procedure of jurisdiction relating to the appeal of the request for access to information and the current provisions of the law will be brought into line with the newly adopted Law on the general administrative procedure. We've already heard here several times today that certain negativity has been observed. We are all aware that they are in the implementation of this law, but here I personally expect that the new law and these perceived negativity will be able to resolve, and here in the end I will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53139	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53140	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. There is no doubt that the Law itself is the right to access information and, accordingly, its implementation of the greatest dam of corrupt behaviour, I would say that the Law on the right to access information is the most important anti-corruption law. However, as it is carried out, we can only partially see it in this report on the implementation of the Law on the Right of Information. The SDP has therefore insisted that the right to access information be raised to constitutional level, and according to how the organizations both GONG and Transparency International sought encouragement. This is absolutely necessary, precisely because of our present condition, and also because of the future, for the health of the nation, for the health of the state, because of the great problem that is bothering us today. This report shows that implementation, but not only of the report but above all what GONG carried out, shows that implementation of the Law on Access to Information remains problematic and remains very missing. The bodies of the public authorities had the opportunity to answer very, very specific questions, of very relevant issues that plague the citizens of our country and who have the right to know first and foremost what is fundamentally how their money is spent. It is precisely these most important, the relevant questions are difficult and have not been answered in any way. On some less important issues informative, less ticklish, as our people would say, they received spotless answers. However, it is on the question of how money is spent, how public authorities spent money, how they dealt with such issues hard to get an answer. It was also difficult to get an answer or no answers as to what number, what structure and number of employees or new employees in individual public administration bodies. The defeat result was that only 38.98% of the public authorities gave the information within the time limit, and beyond the body's deadline they acted as a percentage of 35%, and 25% and close to 26% were not responsible at all. The analysis shows that many public authorities have neither understood nor read the Law on Access to Information, and those who have read it have often used it to play it and to respond pro form without giving an essential answer and content. The predecessor of the Law on the right to access information is our current hour, current hour, which has been introduced into the Croatian Parliament since the beginning. Let's just remember yesterday what kind of answers we get from the prime minister and the government as a whole. When we're looking for a very concrete answer we get some jumps, jumps, qualifications, we don't get an answer, and then other public authorities' bodies get lower levels then in this way the incentive that they can behave like that. When I asked yesterday why Mrs. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53141	This does not apply to the current morning, and to the answers of the Prime Minister and Minister, this is about the Law on the right to access information.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53142	We're not getting an answer, we're getting answers. They're not going to judge the party's court. Madam Prime Minister, the government as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53143	You can't do that, it's not allowed to do that, I'm warning you, you can't, because it's not a topic. Appreciateing you, I'll protect you, so I'll say specific things. So, the bodies of the public government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53146	Don't be afraid, therefore, of the bodies of the public government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53147	I'm not afraid.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53148	Will you let me?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53149	I'm not gonna let you, but I'm telling you to stick to the exact subject and stay out of what you're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53150	What I'm saying is that exactly the bodies of the highest level of government should be an incentive to lower public authorities, how this issue should be handled. And especially so proclaimed, our fight against corruption. I repeat, how public authorities are treating this issue is just testifying to how resolved they are in fact transparent because it is the smallest dam. If people from the beginning, if the government opens up, if it gives data, then it's very unlikely that later they'll be in a position to abuse their powers. But if the answers are thrown out, if no answers are given, if you wonder how much money has been spent on that and that, which concluded the contract by which..., who received certain jobs, how much it cost the local self-government unit or any other local government body if you get general answers, no concrete answers to specific questions are received, then the public authority considers that it has answered. It did not answer, it only misused the Law by giving an answer without answering the question at all. And I myself asked as a representative several times how many new employees are in public administration bodies how many employees are in companies, new employees. We have an answer to generalize how many people are employed. So it's obvious that something is hiding, which is why, therefore, this is the quality of a good government that should be transparent primarily in terms of not only giving data, later that government does not only surprise citizens but often itself. Here, Mr. Vice President, with your permission, I will say that Mrs. Prime Minister is often surprised by some information. Therefore, if the public authorities acted according to the law itself to provide concrete answers, they would obviously be better off and the government itself would be less surprised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53151	Thank you. Two corrections. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53152	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleagues, it's incorrect that you didn't get any answers yesterday. You got the answer exactly as you deserve, among them is the answer that your party court will no longer judge, you have received very specific answers to your questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53153	And Mrs. Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53154	So I'm correcting the incorrect allegations, Mrs. Anticevic, that she didn't get the answers yesterday, that the prime minister was responding in the jumps. We want to tell you that in this year's report, the government received 32 requests, 22 of them accepted and 10 accepted. So the government doesn't have a single rejected answer. The government provides information on its websites, and you are obviously tickled by the court of the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53155	Ms. Representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, Mrs. Anticevic, in her debate several times, repeated the same untruth that the state authorities did not give the information, and mentioned yesterday's current clock. It's not exactly an absolute being given information, especially those questions that were raised here on the current clock. Mrs. Anticevic, you're saying you didn't get the information as many as the new employees in the state bodies were received, you got that information, that's not true, and you want to twist it, but we're asking you to tell you that in Zagreb you have employees of 1,000 people who haven't even crossed that Holding threshold and that none of the employees in Holding is a member of the SDP, they're all members of the SDP, you're silent about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53157	In accordance with Article 207(2), The Rules of Procedure have expired time to report a debate for 10 minutes. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras, same fate, loses his word. Which is shared by Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan, also the same fate. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. And she unfortunately enters the quota of those who share the fate of those who lose their word. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. It loses its right to say the same. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk, same case. Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin. Same case as all the others. Ms. Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53158	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. So here I want to look at this report in a few words specifically because the right to access information is a right that belongs to the basic category of human rights. The Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Convention on Access to Information, many international contracts and provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, has been protected. Almost all countries in transition, most countries in Europe over 60 countries in the last ten years have passed laws allowing their citizens to access official information. In Croatia, the right to seek and obtain information, as well as the obligation of the public authority to provide access to the requested information, is normably regulated in 2003 by the adoption of the Law on the right to access information. I also agree with all those who have particularly apostrophe, that this law plays an important role in the fight against corruption and also plays an important role in the democratisation of society. The 2009 census lists nearly 4,000 different public authorities, grouped in several categories. The 2009 Official Report states that only 688 public authorities respected the legal provision and provided information on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information to the Ministry of Administration. Compared to 2008, it's a smaller number of bodies. Given that in 2008, 748 public authorities provided their data to the then Central State Administration Office. So this official report that we are considering today is based on data delivered by less than one quarter of the public authorities. And I think it's particularly worrying that the bodies that didn't send their data include counties, cities and municipalities. It was found even that 44.62% of the body of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government did not provide reports on the implementation of the 2009 law, and I think it is a lot of concern, and with the right of many committees that discussed this report in the Croatian Parliament, could the Ministry of Administration really, through cooperation with municipalities, cities and counties, come up with these reports or otherwise take certain measures that would alert the municipalities, cities and counties for the next year. Because I find it unacceptable for individual units of local and regional (regional) self-government to ignore both the law and the Ministry of Administration but also the Croatian Parliament as the most legislative body. It is visible from the report that some public authorities do not know and understand what the right to access information is or do not understand what information really is, so in this sense, it would appeal that some workshops on which public authorities' heads of directors would be interpreted may be held by the Ministry of Administration, which really implies information and what the right to access information really implies. For example, the presence of citizens of public meetings of local representative bodies is not information in accordance with the Law on the right to access information, but it is the public's work of local and regional self-government in accordance with the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. Furthermore, a copy of a public authority report which is not classified is available information and the applicant does not need to know exactly what information is contained in such a report and to refer to it in its request. I, for example, received a series of objections from NGOs, citizens who could not gain access to information. The word is I'll only mention a few examples. Countys which have also not submitted a report to you, as other examples of MPs can read the report themselves. Namely, the Croatian Peasant Union, which operates in the Sisak-Moslavina County, addressed me. He informed me that he had requested from the county administration information on the payment of support in agriculture for 2009, that they had called for the Law on the right to access information, and on the basis of information from farmers of family holdings and cooperatives and associations, they believe that the county administration did not act in accordance with the decision of the County Assembly of Sisak-Moslavina County and did not pay for support as provided for in the county budget. In fact, support is a reduction in the rebalancing rate from 7.2 million kuna to 4.7 million kuna in Sisak-Moslavina County, but this reduced agricultural support ratio is not paid to agricultural producers, which is of course a major problem for their continued functioning and survival of family agricultural holdings in Sisak-Moslavina County. Today, as councilors in Sisak-Moslavina County, I am not aware of why these support in agriculture is not fully paid and according to which criteria the amount of payment has been reduced by 10% to 50%, and some unfortunately for 80% of which I consider it not only a violation of this law we are talking about today but also a violation of the law on the implementation of the budget, but also a provision of a public tender. Where that money was meant for farmers, no one knows. Or the complaints that came from the opposition councillors in the municipality... the work of the local administration that is denying them information, for example on the inventory of the municipality, on the payment of municipal fees paid by companies at the expense of the municipality for the development of the area, on the list of citizens who have the right to heating and similar information declared by the Headship and the Municipality by the official secret and any information requested by the council members to answer that it is an official secret. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it seems to me, in fact, that both these data and the percentages that we have received today in the context of this report are a reflection of the situation on the ground. I can agree with you, Secretary of State, that a lot of information is actually published today on the Internet, that they are available, but our law is quite clear here. If a citizen, association, cooperative or any organisation requests information from the public authority, and that information does not fall within the official secret, it is duty to provide information within the legal time limit. We see from these examples that I have cited, but that we could also read in your report, that this is not always the case. So I think that indeed the Ministry of Administration has its hands full to put this situation on the ground with irresponsible leaders, the public administration. I must say that when I look at this report it should certainly be pointed out that it has been improved in relation to the previous report, that you have observed the observations made in the Croatian Parliament because it has been improved in terms of methodology, data collection and the processing of issues that the public authorities have been obliged to answer. The information is also largely structured, equally displayed. The report contains additional chapters on examples of good practice and on difficulties in applying the law itself, as well as recommendations to further improve the Law on the right to access information. However, I would like to point out once again in the end that I find it a serious problem that public authorities have not delivered reports on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information, which justifiably raises suspicion among citizens that they are hiding something. And my question is whether the Ministry of Administration can take certain measures to keep this from happening again, that is, to make the information available to both the public and the citizens when they are asked for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53159	Thank you. I'm interrupting the session. Resume at 3:00. It is up to Madam Representative Sunčana Glavak, Susana Bilić Vardić, Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53160	My colleagues and colleagues, I propose that we continue the afternoon session, or individual debate. An esteemed colleague, Sunchana Glavak, applied for the debate. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53161	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. A few words about the data and analyses that have been done in accordance with the Law on the right to access information for 2009. Progress is determined immediately at the very beginning. I would like to emphasise this in the exercise of the right to access information, which is, of course, the number or percentage of 91% of the applications submitted. So 91% is adopted. The treatment of requests for access to information also points to the increasing openness of the public authority to communicate with the rightholders of information, which is also an indication of the achievement of the positive objectives and the purpose of the law. In accordance with the principles of openness and the public work of the public authorities of the Republic of Croatia, each of us and the general public are given access to the public administration and to all relevant information. Of course, in the information age you can look at all of this on the website my administration and there is a whole series of data available. For the purpose of implementing a legislative provision relating to the obligation to decide on the determination of an official responsible for the resolution, the exercise of the right to access information. During the last year, information on the appointment of such persons in the bodies of the state administration and the bodies of units of local and regional self-government and on decisions to form a catalogue of information from which it is evident what the citizens asked, what the public wanted to know and how these questions were handled. In relation to the legal authority of the exercise of supervision in the application of the law, the Ministry of Administration does not have the same power to take measures, which I think is important to highlight and the reasons for public authorities not subject to the administrative supervision laid down rules on the system of state administration and local and regional and regional self-government. There were a lot of words about the public work of the body of the state administration, so I'll just look back on the fact that by July of last year I was an information officer for the government of the Republic of Croatia on the public work of the government, because we're just talking about 2009, so I'll just mention what a lot of people are talking about in the open or closed session of the government, so I'll say, I'll give you a few examples. For example, in the surrounding countries in Bulgaria, the decision is closed and opened, or proposed by the ministry or by the applicant of the proposal to be discussed at the session. Portugal, for example, has exclusively closed meetings of the Government. The plenary sessions are only open. Austria has closed meetings of the government except for national holidays. That's what we call formal sessions. Therefore, there are no open meetings of the government for the public either in Austria. In Italy, they are public, but in certain cases closed, and is decided by the President of the Council of Ministers. As regards information that also interests the public regarding the work of the Government, publication and announcement of the agenda. For example, there are none in Denmark or Spain. They're not in Cyprus, they're not in Ireland, they're not in Malta, the United Kingdom, Austria. She's passing the summary herself, and it's the state agency. They're not in Switzerland, Norway, etc. The agenda shall be published after the meeting, for example in Denmark, at a press conference. Only a list of selected points in Iceland, and on websites in Belgium, Luxembourg, Czech Republic, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Slovakia and Slovenia. So all of this points to the work, i.e. the public of the countries in our environment, and something broader, and we can say in line with the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in relation to all of this is very transparent. In addition, since the introduction of the law, we must also say that everything that happens in the Government is being published on the websites, that until recently there has been an official report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia where it is also being published. And of course there is the Public Relations Office in which all relevant information can be obtained. Conclusions from the session, what always questions what was going on or not, or whether something had failed. The conclusions of the meetings are not published, for example in Ireland, the United Kingdom, Switzerland and are only partly published in Hungary, Spain, Austria, Greece, Italy, Portugal, Estonia, Iceland, Norway and Bulgaria. The information about the public is so I can say similar to that of us. So, at the press conferences, then press releases, websites or official announcements. The press releases refer to Lithuania, the Netherlands, Sweden, Belgium, Norway, Estonia and, for example, to some countries, only the Prime Minister or the Registrar at a point that has been identified as the most important example for this session and not all points. I'm going to look back on Romania where, for example, public information is decided by government members, session participants depending on topics. So, it's different but what we want to say about Croatia, specifically for government sessions, are the open and closed part. The agenda shall be published on the Government's web pages just before the beginning of the session. The conclusions shall be published immediately after the meeting. So, a few minutes after the session ended, and we often talked about this with representatives of NGOs using websites and thus informing themselves about the work of the government. The closed part of the public shall also be informed by the Office for Public Relations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia after the meeting. So I can say that a lot has been done since the year 2004 when the law came into force. Of course, like everyone else, so this law is a living body and is subject to additions and amendments, so I commend the Ministry of Administration and their measure of making, or amending and supplementing the Law on the right to access information. I'm sure that's what the Secretary of State will believe and confirm that they've been working with NGOs especially with GONG who's been dealing with this problem for years. And I believe that the Ministry of Administration, and in the time before us, will continuously monitor the implementation of the Law on the right to access information and report it regularly to the public, because, of course, all those working in public services are obliged and responsible for their work to provide information without any restrictions, the information must be available and be a rule and not some exception when we ask if any information can be obtained. Finally, it was heard here, of course, that bodies that do not comply with the legal obligation should do so and I believe that there will also be much stricter supervision and that these negativitys will be removed and, of course, I welcome the GONG initiative which is trying to bring our public closer to the way information can be obtained. Of course I'll support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53162	Thank you very much. We've got two lines reported. First of all, colleague Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53163	Dear colleague Glavak, it is good that you have informed us a little about the practice in other countries, but I would now like to warn that we are discussing in Croatia and that this law, the Law on the right to access information, obliges public authorities to behave in accordance with the provisions of this law. And unfortunately, I, unlike you, cannot be satisfied with the implementation of this law and the constant decline of the number of queries by citizens that we can see from reports in the report so that one report resembles another egg or as being cloned, I think it points to several very disturbing facts, which is that unfortunately, the public authorities and primarily means the ruling coalition partners have been implementing a few years of a planned policy of closing the public authority by citizens, from the media and the interested public, because of the awareness that they will not get the information they want and wish for citizens anymore, they do not address public authorities, which suggests, of course, the intransparentity of the work of the authorities. Since the ruling sees this law as irrelevant and pointless, the leaders of the public authorities marginalise and obstruct the implementation of this law, and such marginalisation of the law by the ruling policy are generally recognised in their own organisation by officials who are in charge as persons in charge of doing this work, so they do this job in a sloppy manner. I would also warn this time that every request submitted by citizens or media should be treated as a request in accordance with the Law on Access to Information, and all e-mails, telephones and the like should be recorded in most cases, or only those cases where citizens or media are directly referred to the provisions of the Law on the right to access to information, which is in some way a violation of the law. And I think that's what needs to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53164	Thank you very much. Time's up. Replication response, colleague Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53165	Thank you very much. My colleague Holly, I am sorry that you generalise the way information officers work, because, as I said, I have been doing this job until last year, I must say that we were in no way indifferent to any question and, of course, the citizens have to ask, in accordance with the law, or anyone other than press enquiries, of course, in accordance with the Law on the right to access information, their request. If they didn't, we were obliged, or I as an information officer, to guide them in what way they had to do it. I believe that this time behind us, too, because we heard that there was both education and I can't be skeptical, I want to believe that people will learn to work, that people will keep a catalogue of information and that in the right way they will record information. We're referring to numbers six years ago or the first report. I must say, however, that we have made little progress, so on the websites of individual ministries or public authorities, information is being published, so perhaps there is no reason to ask so many questions in writing or any other or telephone statement for which you must also make a record, otherwise, if it goes on the phone and verify it and you know it all. As far as other levels are concerned, we've heard it, and I've also said it, you're right here, I'll agree with you, that everyone should respect the law and enforce it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53166	Thank you very much. And the other one is a replica of the esteemed colleague Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53167	My colleague Glavak, you mentioned what I said last year during the debate on the report that it would obviously be necessary to change the powers of the Ministry of Administration in the law, I support you in this, and as proof of a letter that is not imaginary, and later I will hand it over to the Secretary of State. What does that mean? Page 14 and 15 of the report, Mr. Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, they gave you the information and you wrote it in the report, that they had seven requests they refused. Case number 2, description of the MK from Zagreb, the complaint was rejected, and eventually the findings all accepted requests were resolved within the legal time limit. The MK addressed me in a letter stating that the complaint was lodged on 17 June 2009, that the complaint was resolved on 29 July, and was delivered to it by a solution on 8 September 2009, which is both outside the law of the prescribed deadlines. Meanwhile, the administrative court adopted his appeal, adopted, and to this day, the Ministry of Interior has not acted according to the ruling of the administrative court. We really need to extend the powers of the Ministry of Administration, so that, among other things, we have the power not only to collect and do the aggregated data that other authorities are giving you, but also to control their accuracy, because the Ministry of Interior is pages 14 and 15 not responding to the truth. I'll give you proof of the man, you can have him, he's got his contact and his phone number, and his email address, see if they're accurate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53168	Thank you very much. That's what the secretary will take, so he'll see what's going on, and we'll go on with the debate. The following has been reported by a distinguished colleague, Susana Bilić Vardic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53169	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will begin by saying that I will support the report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2009 which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has provided to this High House for discussion and adoption in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Access to Information. The report submitted is based on the law of only 30 articles adopted by the Croatian Parliament 6,5 years ago, 2003, and 6th in a row is the report from last year, which has been carried out by the Ministry of Administration in charge of overseeing the implementation of the Law on Access to Information and in charge of submitting a joint report on the implementation of this law to the Government of the Republic of Croatia by 28 February for the previous year, and the Government of the Parliament until 31 March, which is here and the case, and then I only commend and stand out, and I will no longer praise, not only point out that the legal deadlines are respected in accordance with the provisions of this law. The right to access information available by public authorities is one of the fundamental human rights protected by the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as well as the Convention on Access to Information, International Contracts and Provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The law on the right to access information provides citizens with the right to access information from public authorities which are obliged to establish a catalogue of information they possess, which they possess or monitor and to ensure access to such information. All public authorities are obliged to submit a report to the Ministry of Administration on the implementation of the law on the basis of the information contained in the catalogue of information for the preceding year by 31 January at the latest. As the up-to-date bodies of the public authorities are seen in the report from which the office showed how much for the last year the public authority delivered, that is, how much and why not all the time, that is, this is not the first such report to challenge us here in the debates is this a full report? I think it's complete. And I'll answer why. The ministry, or government, united what it delivered. The fact is that in the current law which has obviously matured for the amendments and additions spoken by the State Secretary, which were eventually drawn in the document that we brought here two years ago, and this is about the Anti-Corruption Strategy, which is in Chapter 5. Preventing corruption, the right to access information, we have set targets to improve the exercise of the right to access information clearly prescribe exceptions from the general rule of access to information, such as protected data with the designation of secrecy and personal data, and as we have adopted this year somewhere for the second quarter, correct me if it is not true, the Government has proposed, and the Parliament has adopted, so it will come to the order of amendments and additions to this law, in which it will not only comply with the legal gains of the EU, or with European legislation, but I believe that it will be a good opportunity for all these remarks, which the MPs are talking about from year to year, when we talk about this report on the implementation of the Law on Information, say they will be contained in these amendments and amendments to the laws. So I think this report is complete. The government could not deliver anything other than what the public authorities provided. The government also respected the decision that by January 31st 2009, the "National Journal" found the bodies of public authorities. However, just about 200 of the lists on the list, GONG, opposition, and we all come if we want to do a little math on some apparently 4 thousand of these bodies. And maybe there's also a report from the veterinary station and the infirmary. If they are bonds, or bonds, and they are because they have some bodies, have some public areas, have to submit to the Ministry of Administration a report on the implementation of the Law on Access to Information, then it is clear to us that we will never get, we will never be able to satisfy that list of these delivery reports. We're not that perfect, and I don't think there's any such example in the world. However, I advocate the fact that in the following reports, no matter what any changes or additions to the law, the Ministry of Administration clearly states the number of applicants to submit this report, first to the Ministry of Administration, then to the Government and then to us, and here to the Parliament. In order to know the number, the number clearly established, how much that obligation has fulfilled and how much it is not. That the report is complete, so here's what we're going to do about big cities, so cities that are more than 35,000 inhabitants, out of those 16 cities, they've been delivered by 12. So, a representative sample, but I'll say that they didn't deliver. He did not deliver, for example, the town of Split, the second largest city in the Republic of Croatia. He didn't deliver Sibenik, he didn't deliver Samobor, and what I'm not proud of he didn't even deliver a city from which I came, or management, mayor of Slavonski Brod. Well, the mayor of Slavonski Brod is not the only failure to work, but here, out of 16 major cities only four have not delivered. If we respect all that has been stated in a large number of municipalities that exist in the Republic of Croatia, some of which do not have enough staff, or fiscal capacity to employ persons who should do the job of information officers, then we can accept it, but we cannot accept it for the counties and cities not to respect these decisions. And without further ado, I will support this report and expect that, if not until the end of this session, and that in the autumn session before us, there will be amendments and additions to the Law on the right to access information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53170	Thank you, colleague. A respected colleague, Doric, applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53171	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues agree with most of what you said, but I'm replicating about that part of your presentation where you were talking about whether the report is complete or not, which the cities have delivered, which are not. That's important, we can certainly discuss it for hours, but I think we've paid too little attention to what we've achieved through this law. The goal in every democratic society is to ensure in this way a very significant control mechanism for citizens where his tax money ends, how those paid for that tax money, which are the consequences of their decisions, work. That's the most important thing. If in Croatia, and we all agreed the last few months, we are losing through corruption, by directing money towards wrong projects, by wrong people in the wrong way, then surely you and I have a lot more to do in Croatia, a lot of work ahead of us. We haven't talked enough about not getting what we needed through the application of this Law, and believe me, we haven't achieved much. So I'm saying, we should always look at what our ultimate goal is and whether or not we're getting close to that goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53172	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of counterpart Bilić Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53173	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I myself have stated that the Government and Parliament, that this House, in its document, is a strategy against corruption, is exactly what you were talking about. Whether this goal has been achieved, so that it has been achieved and will never be reached to the end, but I think that this application of this Law in these 6.5 years has shown increased transparency of work, that in the meantime there has been greater transparency of the work of the body of the state with public powers, and that the work on what you've been talking about will never go away for us, nor can we lose our strength and will all stand together in this segment, in which the best testimony and the head of the Government of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53174	Thank you. Next, an important colleague, Marija Lugaric, has applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53175	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Maybe I should start there, what my colleague Bilic Vardic was talking about. Contrary to her opinion, if more than 50% of the applicants actually submit these bodies to public authorities who are obliged to give information to citizens, don't submit a report, about how they implemented the law, I don't think the report is complete, that it doesn't paint the right state of things, because even these data we have, I think we can be satisfied, and then you can think that the right to access information is related to those who even wanted to send a report to the government that they are doing according to the law. They ignore the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you think they're running to give citizens information. First of all, the report as such is incomplete, no one hides it, it's not the government's fault, it's the public authorities' fault, but it tells us that in fact the right to access information other than the declarative has actually not really been brought to life by the public authorities in the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, I don't think the Department of Administration is exactly as helpless as he's trying to show us. The Law on the right to access information states that the Ministry of Administration is obliged to exercise control over the implementation of the Law. I ask, and I would like Mr. Secretary of State to get an answer for what you've done to force these bodies of public authorities that are persistently ignoring you and then I believe all other citizens are actually fulfilling their obligations under the law. Have you also applied the possibilities given to you by the Law on Administrative Inspection, whether these municipalities, cities, various institutions and institutions from those bodies of public authority have received any penalties under that law. Did you warn them? Have you published in the National Journal, that pillar of shame, not to cooperate with the people. On your websites whether you published it, I think there are more or less repressive or pedagogical methods that could make at least some of them, to clear your name, because this is how you turn out to be responsible. The second thing I want to talk about on the basis of this report is actually the application of Article 20. The law on the right to access information. I would ask that, in all future reports coming here to the Croatian Parliament, it should also be a reference to the application of Article 20 of the Law on the right to access information. What is it about colleagues and colleagues, in the Law of Article 20? Article 20 states that regardless of the individual requirements in which access to information is sought, public authorities are required to publish the information they own themselves. Now he says here in the law what's special. This is, for example, information on work including information on activities, organisations, costs and sources of funding, I ask you colleagues and colleagues who do so. Or, for example, information on submitted requests, performances, petitions, proposals as well as other activities that users have undertaken towards the public authority. Which ministry does it, whether it is the Government, whether it is the Croatian Parliament. If the Croatian Parliament publishes, let's say the opinion of the GONG yesterday and Transparency International and Green Action on the Golf Law, using this Act it must publish. I'm a Croatian Parliament by myself. Because the debtor is entitled to access information. I am particularly interested in the use of paragraph 2 of this Article. The counterparts and colleagues in this article say "the bodies of the public authorities in whose jurisdiction the draft laws and sublegislative acts are required to publish the drafts of these acts and allow the authorities to make themselves known within the appropriate time limit. Drafts of laws and sublegislative acts written by the user and the final proposals of those acts shall be published either in the public opinion or on the websites. The government today has a session, it does not want until the session is ready to publish the acts being discussed, it is said here that the drafts must be published, that in this way the debate must be held, that everything that is as a product of this debate and all those opinions have been said that it must also be published and we are passing laws that we who are actually directly involved in the adoption of the law on them know, we know absolutely nothing until they come to us here. Well, the government's keeping it from the Parliament, that information. Let alone that they should be available to the general public as prescribed in the Law and that actually those interested in this debate may participate. That's why things happen to us that we have regulations where the whole waist comes when it's too late for their application that they're inconclusive, and then after a few months, we try to change. So I, Mr. Secretary of State, ask nicely that in the future in these reports it be to report on how Article 20 is implemented. The law, i.e. you, as the Ministry of Administration, which is competent to exercise control over the application of this Act, shall also take care of that. Starting with the government, the ministries, the parliament and then the other bodies of the public government. And Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, at the very end of this debate, I have a question for you too. According to our Rules of Procedure, you should give us information and explanations, I am interested in how we are even discussing this point here in the Croatian Parliament. This report was not discussed by the parent committee, and without the opinion of the parent committee, we cannot discuss it at all. This tells us on the one hand that we do not care about obligations and regulations or that we love them more or less to manipulate or what the interested public, the professional public or any other public is actually less or less concerned about us, but that we have to meet some criteria of some democratic standard, so we did it without actually caring too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53176	Thank you very much. What I am obliged to explain is that we have established the agenda at a joint meeting of the Presidency of the Parliament and the president of all clubs. That before the debate on this point was opened, you also have the minutes of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and you have received the report. And since it's a committee that should also take care of the work of other committees and... it's wrong maybe from others but then I'd admit my mistake that he actually mistakenly declared himself a parent committee. But it was all done the moment the debate started. Therefore, it is certain that more account should be taken, but it is obvious that these mistakes are possible even though fellow Ostojić is always trying all twice or twice to check. We have one application for replica, colleague Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53177	My colleague Lugaric, you reminded me of something you had forgotten to say earlier. In fact, you said that not even the cities or municipalities fulfil their legal obligation, that the ministries don't do it, that's not what we do in the Parliament about clearly this matter. But I will tell you that I was in a very awkward situation six months ago when as a representative of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly delegated me to represent them at a meeting of ministers in charge of local and regional self-government, it was in the Netherlands, and it was discussed among other things on this subject. Our Minister Mlakar didn't even show up. Mrs. Miskovic came instead, she didn't say a word. Therefore, not only are we acting in a way that we do not respect our own laws within the Republic of Croatia, but rather when the international community invites us to show that we are involved in this European project and we are not able to even appear.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53178	Thank you very much. There's no need for a reply to the replica. And the last application is to participate in the debate as the final word on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53179	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Let me start with this declared password, the declared principle for democratic societies and democratic countries. Citizens have the right to know how nice it sounds and how well it seduces citizens and sometimes representatives of the Croatian Parliament. So we have a law on the right to access information, but we don't have an independent body that monitors the regulation and implementation of that law. In other words, in Croatia those who possess information that they have, who classify them, decide whether to provide this information to citizens, officials. As we see it, it is a very interesting example of one of the representatives of the Croatian Parliament who is seeking to gain insight into the documents and information contained in the ministry. Before I say that it is the Croatian Parliament, and the Croatian Parliament is the representative body of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and the citizens have the right to know, and the representatives of Croatian citizens have the right to decide and are obliged to decide and imagine this they gave us the right to decide on the state budget and on war and peace we must decide. We must exercise civil oversight over the services, the military etc., we must oversee the Government of the Republic of Croatia and then the representative of the Croatian Parliament, the representative of Croatian citizens in the legislative body, asks for information on information from the Ministry. And he doesn't get that information except that they're classified, that the ministry has put a mark of secrecy, that the ministry, therefore, is the one the Parliament has to oversee, decides whether to give that information to the Parliament and to the MP. And when I already refer to laws such as the Law on Access to Information without the control of an independent body, let's say in the Rules of Procedure, "All official materials and documents and data are available to the agent, which are being prepared or collected, or should be discussed in the Croatian Assembly" or otherwise come to them. However, the representative does not get an insight into the data and documents and addresses the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system which, in its conclusion, confirms that it should not be given, because these data as they may go outside because they assume that the representatives are irresponsible. And the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and the Law obliges an agent to keep a secret. Now I'm wondering, who are the guardians of this information revolution, if it isn't the Parliament and if it isn't the MPs? Who is in the administration, more responsible in bureaucracy, more authorised to have that information and has no representative of the citizens' people to know about them here, see and decide whether to correct them on the basis of them or not. So we've got ourselves into a situation that bureaucracy controls the Parliament rather than vice versa. We've put ourselves in a position that the secretary of state, even the secretary of state, says I think this should be declared a secret and when the secret agent doesn't have the right to get it. For God's sake, how can a representative decide what is in the Constitution to decide on behalf of the citizens of the Republic? On the basis of which, does a representative need to be turned into a voting machine and whose voting machine? Who's responsible, who's responsible here? Each representative individually. Therefore, it is very important that we can move forward to change the law, predict an independent body that will control the implementation of the Access Act on Information. Even when information is classified all the way to a state secret, it must assess the proportionality of protection under the state's secret and proportionality of the needs of citizens must or should have the right to know. Not the one who classifies that in the name of the people it decides whether it is lawful for the people. As long as access to information is left to the executive authority we will have problems for the executive authority to decide what the Croatian Parliament may know as well. That's not acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53180	Thanks, buddy. And finally, Secretary of State Edmund Miletic. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53181	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Given that much has been said today, I will very briefly try to look back at some allegations. Before I begin, I would like to reply to Mr. Representative on Mr. Mlakar's participation in the Council of Europe conference. At the time he was in surgery and that's why he wasn't present, since you called him names. Today we have heard a lot of very useful ideas that we must certainly take into account when drawing up this new Law on the right to access information, i.e. amending and supplementing the current law. I am sorry that not some colleagues here who in their presentations expressed the need to pass such a law, or called the ministry very directly to do nothing about it. They probably weren't as good as they were now that I had an opening statement. I said that the ministry, in cooperation with civil society organisations, played the biggest role of which was GONG as one association that deals with this authority very specializedly, that it had made one draft law concerning all these issues, important issues and objections that have been raised today, both with regard to the establishment of an independent body and with regard to improving the administrative procedure and with regard to the regulation of responsibilities for those who do not deliver their reports, so neither can the Government meet this requirement fully. There were very useful ideas about what else should be contained, I fully agree with Mrs Lugaric that the future report should contain all the information required in Article 20 of the current law. Not taking into account the methodology or content of the current report, therefore this proposed report, whether it is complete, whether it is incomplete, what is most important in that report is it does not make the present situation any better. It speaks with concrete information about the present state of affairs. What conclusions can be drawn from these figures is now a matter of discussion. In any event, what the report states is that the current law should be amended, that the law adopted in 2003 was a step forward with regard to the regulation of this right, however, in its current implementation it pointed to a series of shortcomings to be corrected. This new legislative proposal, which supported those associations involved in the drafting of the bill, also provides responsibility for those bodies which will not submit their report. It is precisely by respecting this principle of the public and the availability of such acts, hence the availability of those to whom it applies, that a large round table will be held on this draft. After that, we'll go into government procedure. This will be relatively quick for the reason why we must adhere to the deadlines that we have adopted in the legislative action plan. So I suggest you still support the adoption of this report, and the result will certainly be the change of the current law, of course, for the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53182	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53183	We move to the 2009 report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information. Carrier of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the conclusion that it is: a report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. The result? This report was accepted by a majority of 77 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 19 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53184	And since all the conditions have been met, we're now moving on to 3. Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Public Roads, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 538 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed in an urgent procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications and the Committee on War Veterans. We also received a report from the board's session. The Government has submitted an amendment that becomes an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. The amendment was also submitted by Danica Hursa. Does a representative of the motionor in front of the government want to take his word? Yeah. Bozidar Kalmeta, Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53185	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me tell you in short lines, although as Mr. Vice President has said, you have received material and an explanation, but let me explain, this draft bill on amendments and amendments to the public road law with the Final Bill. In these amendments to the law, we are changing certain rights, or should I say more precisely restricting the rights that so far have persons with disabilities. In fact, at the time when this law was passed then were completely different economic opportunities, I will say that in those times the growth of the gross social product was 5 or even more, and last year, as we know, the growth of the gross social product, i.e. the decline was -5.8. Clearly, under such conditions, you can't go from budget to budget and then always co-finance everything, and I'm not going to talk about all the other measures that the government is taking and will take through its economic programme that the government has adopted, but I'm going to base here on what's going on here today, which is the Law on Public Roads. So, how'd it go so far? In accordance with the Law on Public Roads of Article 63, it was stated that persons with 80 or more percentages of physical damage or persons who found physical damage resulting from the incompetence of the lower extremities of 60 or more percentages do not pay annual compensation for the use of public roads, that is one thing, and in Article 62(1) of the Law writes and do not pay tolls I apologize to Article 62(2) of this Act on a personal car owned or used under the basis of a lease agreement. The government is proposing amendments to this law along with this amendment which has been proposed and which has become a component, and we propose that it become an integral part of this Law where this first right is and this is the right to not pay an annual fee for the use of public roads remains as it has been so far. Therefore, all persons with 80 or more percent of the physical damage, or persons who have identified the physical damage resulting from the inability of the lower extremities of 60 or more, will not pay an annual fee for the use of public roads. So this right remains still in the proposal for these amendments to the law. What changes, is paying toll, and the proposal would now read as follows. So, persons with 80 or more percentages of physical damage, i.e. persons who have identified the physical damage that results from the incompetence of the lower extremities, I apologize for reading what I just said, so that remains. And this when we talk about the release of the toll toll for the use of highways and parking facilities for a private car that has its own property, i.e. which uses the basis of the Leasing contract, would keep persons and this is a proposal that determines the physical damage that results in the incompetence of the lower extremities of 80 or more percent and the Croatian military disabled with 100% physical damage. So that's what the government proposes to change these amendments to the Law on Public Roads. So, one of the rights that they have so far remained, and the other one is corrected in a way that the right to free toll has those who have 80 or more percent incompetence of the lower extremities and Croatian military disabled with 100% physical damage. Here's a proposal that the government is proposing, I take into account what I said at the beginning, taking into account that I'm not quoting here right now and I'm not talking about a high sensitivity that the government has towards people with disabilities and a whole series of measures that are going to be implemented, this is something that's good, what's so far has been something that was good, but of course they need money. As the situation in the budget is what it is that I do not repeat ourselves, we suggest that this one standard that is nevertheless, don't get me wrong, which is beyond standard, that for this second question, it's a question of toll, that correction is not abolished, but corrected, in this way that I've already read twice, that I'm not reading a third time. Here you are, Your Honor, Mr. President, and the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the council. I tried and I think I was clear in a few sentences to present these amendments to the Law on Public Roads that we propose to adopt here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53186	Thank you very much. Do the Committee rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. If not, then we'll move on to a club debate. The first one was registered by the SDP MPs' club, and a distinguished representative, Vesna Škulic, will speak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53187	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with his associates. He boasted of his friend how he saved one pound and asked his friend how you did it? He says I was running after the bus, and his friend's gonna do it. You could've saved 20 pounds for running after a cab. In this way, it sounds like an explanation of the costs and savings spoken of by the Proposer of this Law. Since Croatian highways invest nothing, nor separate anything for free use of highway people with disabilities, under the current law the state budget cannot save anything. That's why I told you this joke to bring you closer to your savings. The sensitivity of a society is also said to be measured by the attitude towards the most vulnerable groups of the population, including children and persons with disabilities. But the fact is that we created our sensitivity to people with disabilities to the system now we need you now we don't need you, so the rights and privileges were shared by hand and hat, all documents were signed both domestic and international, and it was forgotten that they had to be respected and that those who sign them had responsibility not only under the law but also moral responsibility. But here the leader's star was just a clap, a camera and a pat on the shoulder. When a decision to amend this law was made at the cabinet session, it was said that we must all bear the burden of the crisis we are in. Believe me, there's been quite a riot and infidelity among the population of people with disabilities. That was responded by the Prime Minister with an explanation that we misunderstood a statement from the government's session. According to that logic today, we shouldn't be discussing this law because we don't understand it. The government shouldn't have sent amendments. So this is all virtual or has nothing to do with common sense or logic. It still has less to do with sound logic that the first austerity measure is put to end the right of the poorest category in society. Even before the rights were abolished or changed on impact, they were again persons with disabilities. Let's just remember the benefits of releasing VAT payments on imports of cars. It has been said that this right is abolished because it is being misused, instead of increasing the control system, the right has been abolished. A variety of projects were approved for suspected representatives of disabled persons, thus creating social clientelem, and people with disabilities were blackmailed through these pilot projects because they were a small number of users. By 2007, the Law on personal assistant, social reform and much more was to be passed. Unfortunately, policymakers wrote to people with disabilities about what had occurred to them and thus excluded people with disabilities and gave space to various manipulators who represented their interests. On this occasion, I also call on Mrs. President Jadranka Kosor to participate in the creation of this kind of customer policy, not the policies of rights and inclusion, i.e. that people with disabilities be the creators of their lives involved in the labour market and thus contribute by their own work to the country's exit from the crisis. And what does that have to do with amending the Law on Public Roads? But before we start on this law, I would like to ask the motions to withdraw the bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on Public Roads or to postpone the vote until a prerequisite for the implementation of this law is established. We know that people with disabilities fall into the poorest part of the population, that a small number of employees are more users of social income than they are themselves, but that social clientelism that I was talking about at the beginning. Often in various publications, a syntax of invisible people is used to mark people with disabilities. This way and with these moves, not that they'll make them invisible, but also nonexistent. Since you probably don't understand what I'm talking about, I'll speak the language you understand best. Gentlemen of the government and the ruling party, you've allowed the robbery, you've allowed various TLMs, tunnel painting, dubious privatisation, in the government there are ministers who sign and make decisions then swear they don't know what they were talking about and what they signed. One day they make a decision, another day they pull it back. They don't know what they're saying at the government meeting, they don't know Ivo Sanader, they don't know Damir Polancec, and just a year ago, there was a round of applause in this assembly, and they were bowing to Doctor Ivo, and it went where he went, both me and him. to eventually conquer collective amnesia. Anyway, whoever's clapping now, I think at least it's not fair if you raise your hand for these amendments to the law. Persons with disabilities are not parasites as they wish to be shown but equal members of this society who want full integration and participation at all levels, that they have respected and implemented national strategies, that laws that involve, rather than financing, sponsorship projects would not be discussed today. Persons with disabilities shall not be a burden of the state if there has been a systematic inclusion policy. There's a higher burden on this country for policy makers. Last year, you cut the annual fee for using public roads and tolls for the most disabled by almost 50%. You also reduced your budget rebalance almost for people with disabilities over 100 million kunas, and then you swore we weren't in a crisis yet. However, it was also taken from the item provided for persons with disabilities and put in place to collect the budget. God knows where money ends up meant to hire people with disabilities. Minister Shuker takes them with his heart, puts a complete mass of the state budget. Holes in the Ministry of Economy are being patched up, and for those for whom this is intended, employment and professional rehabilitation of people with disabilities remain crumbs that are diminished with each rebalancing. Last year it was reduced by 4 million and 265,000 kuna. So much transparency when you don't know who pays or how much you pay, and where you get your face to take the dedicated money to hire people with disabilities. So, for example, let's take the disabled person whose parents bought the car, of course, by paying the VAT, because Mrs. Kosor said in 2004, that this right would come back when the state had money for it. Meanwhile, the state was robbed and ran out of all that fictitious money when it spilled from hollow to empty. But there was always money for pets. They're certainly not people with disabilities because they're the first to be punished. So, then these bought cars that they have to pay for and adjust, and they're not employed because 78% of people with disabilities don't have a day's work experience. They have to say three times a month from Split to Zagreb for some of the reviews or rehabilitation procedures. I've already said that the money for their employment is stolen and that they live if the exceptional happiness of 1200 kunas per month. I can't take a bus, I can't take a train either. So, it stays a personal car. I don't know exactly how much they're going to put out for fuel from Split to Zagreb, but I know it gets deep into their personal budget. So, these three trips from Split to Zagreb alone will take about 600 kuna for their toll alone, excluding fuel and all other costs. So that means that the state brings the budget, out of that budget, it sets out for personal disability, which is in the increased amount per thousand and 250 kuna, then that same country in the image of the finance minister when he distributes the money, puts in the item of the Family Ministry a fee for highways a certain number of millions of kunas. Then that money is transferred to the Department of Roads, then the Department of Roads transfers that money to something to paint the tunnel, something for personal use, and who knows where. Unfortunately, a lot of money goes untraceable, and people with disabilities have absolutely no expense, using that highway as they haven't even had a chance to steal a kuna from the state, as the state has made sure that they are insulated fat. And what the HDZ Government is doing and what the Prime Minister is doing that we misunderstood, and I don't know why we're even discussing this law if we get it wrong, why amend the Government if we misread it to live up to and implement anti-recession measures on them that are absolutely not wrong for nothing. We don't have a unique body of art, so you get different levels of disability through different systems. It is also true that persons with 80% physical impairment have less functionality than those with 100 percent physical disability. For example. multiple sclerosis, muscle dystrophy, etc. I can't use public transport. I think that these amendments to the law introduce discriminatory measures, not anti-recession measures. In the year when we are honored to be the first country to report on the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. On behalf of the SDP Club, I ask that the motion to withdraw amendments to the Road Law until an analysis is made, and until social reform is adopted, and this should be by the end of this session or we should postpone the vote. Believe me, nothing spectacular is going to happen in the state. Once again, we will bring great injustice upon those whom we do daily, and whom we humiliate daily. So people with disabilities have no alternative. A personal car serves as an orthopedic aid, and we should act accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53188	Thank you very much. We have one reported correction to the quote, a distinguished colleague of the Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53189	Dear colleague Škulić, it's me listening to you, so I feel like I'm really crying, because this kind of meal at the expense of the government talking is just inadmissible and it's just you, and I'm going to tell you why and now I'm going to sit down to be solidarity with you. As a result, the rights of civil persons with disabilities of counterpart Štulić, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity have carried out all the necessary advances for the establishment of the Ombudsman's institute for people with disabilities. Comrade Stulić, you know that well. ... Excuse me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm really sorry. The ministry is five years in a row, and you know it from 2006 to 2010, please project the introduction of a personal assistant institute for people with disabilities and you have it yourself. If it were all you said here, then it wouldn't be any more.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53190	My colleagues, you must correct the quote, you must say what you are correcting.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53191	Everything. A complete allegation of colleague Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53192	You've made yourself clear, correcting the whole debate as an allegation. You put down the tile, and the word came out on behalf of the government of Minister Calmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53193	Dear Representative Škulić, I will not and do not wish to delve into much of your debate because what I understand is, but I cannot accept it, it was really and politically, and it was all there. But I have a few facts to answer. The fact is that it is true, and it can't be challenged, and that's what the figures show, and that's what I'm going to do if I arrive either now or in any other announcement to try and read, that in the last 6, 6 and a half years, indeed, through the national strategy and through a whole series of measures, the government has really shown one extraordinary, extraordinary concern and sensitivity with people with disabilities. I'll tell you later, and as much as the funds are being allocated for it, something my colleague has just said, but I'm going to say something, too. Therefore, it does not absolutely stand, absolutely what you said and why you called the prime minister, and the former vice president and minister of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, which is actually the most responsible for a high standard that rightly has persons with disabilities. From, I don't know from the Voluntary Law, I don't know, since the opening of what's been said by the Attorney General's Office for Persons with Disabilities, from the Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Care for Persons with Disabilities, from the care of Croatian wartime people, about the programme of removing architectural barriers, the introduction of personal assistants who today have over 400, etc., etc. And what I want to make even more right, look, it's impossible that it's possible, that it's possible, that you mentioned here HAC that he's paying for it. But it's not just the HAC that has highway management under it, it's there, for example. Arz, come on, it's the same state-owned company, but we have a concessionaire, and then... concessionaires and so they would give, so that on these roads, someone has to make it up to them for free, and that someone is a state budget, so we can't, just want to explain it a little bit, we can't have colleagues in Škulić going there, why I don't know it now, HAC, ARZ etc., because we have you know it as well as I do and concessionaries and we have to treat everyone equally. [[You don't understand.]] And this isn't the first austerity measure, this isn't the first austerity measure, and I'm also going to tell you that countries with a much higher standard than us don't know that institute. For example, in the Czech Republic, this transport is free, but in Slovenia there is no release, no release, no categories, and yet we have here, I said 80% and 100% HRVI. In Hungary, there is no exemption from toll pay, there is no exemption from toll pay in Italy, I speak for people with disabilities. France, in France, there is no exemption from paying tolls for people with disabilities, in Germany no one pays highways, and then they don't pay people with disabilities. In Spain, there is no exemption from toll payments, and in Ireland, for example, only persons who have a customized personal vehicle are exempt. So with this bill, we went to that one minimum minimum, and to something that I said before nobody was happy that it was like that, but still to something that was above the standard and we haven't abolished everyone, or we suggest that it not be abolished by everyone but only those, I said before, to leave it to those who have 80% and more and 100% HRVI. That's how it is, fully understanding your discussion, but I need to say a few facts that I think are facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53194	We're going with the rectifications. I saw three tiles. First of all, colleague Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53195	Mr. Minister, you have determined in this address that Croatia has high standards when it comes to achieving high standards for the life of people with disabilities. Mr. Minister, the highest amount to be obtained as a personal disability in Croatia can be achieved at 1250 kuna. Over 70% of people with disabilities in this country don't work. Look, please, last year, to what millions through budget rebalancing have you reduced exactly in the section relating to the social empowerment of people with disabilities, you halved public road fees. Does that mean high standard? And when you talk about how other countries don't have to get rid of tolls, but I'd like to compare with other countries, and when it comes to the height of a personal disability, for example. Well, then, that would be a lot fairer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53196	Coliica Škulić, also a correction of the allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, we primarily have a responsibility, I'm talking about the government's sensitivity that if last year 50% of the tolls for access to objects were reduced by 605,000 kuna or 50%, then by 250 million and 980 thousand kuna, you reduced the social empowerment of people with disabilities, so by 475 thousand kuna, you reduced the right and the politics of persons with disabilities, by 10 million and 200 thousand kuna, it was downloaded from the project aimed at children with disabilities and adults, etc., Mr. Minister. For 7 years, no law has been passed in Croatia regarding persons with disabilities, all of which are pilot projects. And as for the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund, I think the State Audit and the USKOK would have a lot of work to do where that money goes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53198	Thank you. And the third was Mr. Vidovic, although through these two, I did not hear any allegations that he had been corrected. Here you go, colleague Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53199	As far as these comparisons are concerned, I'm correcting Mr. Secretary's claim. We were discussing Mr. Red Cross Minister this morning. Someone remembered in the discussion how we were receiving humanitarian aid, which was freed from toll payments in both Slovenia and Austria, where tolls were normally paid. The Red Cross is now running out of options. Here I suggest you be convinced and feeling the discomfort that you're proposing, I suggest you really try to find the savings elsewhere. You'll be sorry, believe me, in a human sense if you make such a decision on the most vulnerable group of societies. The savings won't be so much that they couldn't be compensated in some other way. It is simply a suggestion to strengthen the solidarity we need in Croatian society now as much as justice and how much responsibility we have in spending money.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53200	Thank you. Let's move on. Dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53201	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, after a dramatic speech like this, I have to tell you, I've been thinking about correcting her incorrect allegations, but I finally gave up because I don't know what I wouldn't have to fix, there was a lot of it. It seems to me that here's a colleague of mine, with her own exposure, has pulled her other colleagues away from the topic that we're talking about here today. We discussed, or a colleague spoke about a personal disability, etc., some other rights that are not the subject of today’s debate. Here I will try briefly on behalf of the HDZ Club to explain this proposal which I must immediately say the HDZ Club supports as the Government has proposed by its amendment. It must be clear to you colleagues and colleagues that the first initiative on the total elimination of toll for people with disabilities back several months to the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been delivered unfortunately by one not association, but by one alliance of persons with disabilities. Who realized there was a lot to be saved here. For many years, people with disabilities have not been completely satisfied with the solution that has been so far, and I will tell you why. Although this legal solution covered a large number of people, I don't know if I'd say with disability or physical damage. Many of you, when I'm saying it now, may not be clear what I'm saying, but in Croatia, for disabled civilians, we still don't have a single body of art, now it's intensively working on it because we really need to find out that someone is going to be disabled. So today we have physical damage. And now you can imagine what it meant in nature that someone who had 100% body damage on his spine had the right if he owned a personal car he had the right to release from the toll regardless of what he was walking and what he didn't need. I must tell you something else that the right to release from toll payments should have been, and so it has always been imagined by this amendment, as the Government has proposed, I am convinced that we have achieved this, either for those persons with disabilities who cannot use cross-city transport, so for my colleague Škuluc, for me, for our attorney for persons with disabilities whom you all know and many others who cannot get on a train, bus or another means of transport to get from Zagreb to Split, Dubrovnik, Rijeka or another city. Exactly what counterpart Škulić said was that car was an orthopedic aid for people with disabilities. It is. But unfortunately, many who have so far been covered by the law did not need that. The first proposal to abolish everyone's right to pay toll was I'll say as the Prime Minister said and indeed it's one misunderstanding, so I think some of the wrong data to the ministries has been delivered, etc. again by people who work closely with persons with disabilities, which I'm sorry to say, but unfortunately that's what happened. And such a proposal for an amendment as proposed by the Government has been agreed with associations with disabilities, with the "Kron" organization of the community of persons with disabilities, with the Ombudsman for people with disabilities and he is based on colleagues and colleagues here on hundreds of letters and e-mails that I have brought here, of course I will not read them, which I personally, and also the Prime Ministers and ministers have directed persons with disabilities who have just expressed what is in this amendment. So those who ride in wheelchairs, those whom the car has been helping orthopedically, should be left with the right to use non-payment of tolls. It is not less right, or it is not negligible that this government has not denied the right to not pay an annual fee for the use of public roads paid on the occasion of registration of a vehicle, so something remains for all. But this really takes only some, and it's what I've already told those who can't use intercity transport in any way. I hope you all understand this. I have to tell you something else, that these days I've been here since we got this amendment talking to a large number of people with disabilities and I've asked to hear their opinion from those who haven't participated in the analysis of this amendment and asked if they're satisfied with it, if we've made a big mistake anywhere, please tell me there's still room to fix if there's anything to fix. Everyone said, this is okay, 80 percent of the body damage to the lower extremities and Croatian wartime disabled 100% it is indeed the most difficult category of Croatian military disabled people with the most frequent combined damage. HVIDRA also agreed with this solution. They participated with us in the debate on this amendment, and they didn't mind. Of course, to put it this way, I think that in this programme of economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia we will take a step forward which is an interest to all. Here I appeal to you, Mr. Minister, that when Croatia comes out of this world crisis to think about reviewing this right once again, then you will, of course, have a very different picture, i.e. a real picture of who is and who is not a disabled person in Croatia. Because when God and I believe we have a guarantee from the competent ministry, by the end of this year, we will have a single body of art that is the foundation of our colleague and colleagues for all rights of persons with disabilities. We will likely meet with one of the rights of disabled persons more than once, so you will see that people with physical damage are mentioned there by so many and so many percent, and then those who are skilled in the welfare system, so those who are not skilled anywhere but are visible as persons with disabilities. So there's everything because unfortunately there's still no such unique body of art. And the Croatian government has done a huge maximum, it is not an easy job for colleagues and colleagues. In one place to unite everything, it took us a long time to even get interested. I have to tell you that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute also didn't say they wouldn't, but he did say see what we could do. So, those who are 20 years ago who today determine physical damage, and they have done so since when people with disabilities belonged to the Mirovinski insurance system. Today they think it's very difficult. Of course, it's hard because standards all over the world for people with disabilities have changed. Here's what Mr. Minister said, this is a rare right, a rare right so only some countries have it. Hungary is gone, our first neighbours, Serbia has about the same as we do, the Czech Republic has others not having, etc. So maybe, colleagues have mentioned a personal disability and that she's small and that people have a hard time living, it's all true. However, I also have to say something about this personal disability. You know very well that with a unique, especially you colleagues Škulić will know very well, that we will have a unique body of art to wait for, that we will get a new Social Care Act that will introduce an inclusive supplement. Whether it will be called inclusive, as otherwise, is now such, a proposal that will make people with disabilities, therefore not to all, not to certain categories, but to give everyone compensation for what they cannot do, for those who alone can't achieve because of their disability and even with the help of orthopaedic aids. I am very glad that here today I can say that it has finally happened that all alliances of people with disabilities have agreed and united over this inclusive supplement that was controversial and when we discussed a blinding allowance in this high house. It was a kind of inclusive supplement when we didn't want to accept it, precisely because we knew that an inclusive addition to both blind and paraplegics and dystrophyses and to all other disabled people would bring far more than we now went to solve the category by category of people with disabilities. We all regret together that we have too many regulations, laws and sublegal acts, and even if we went to solve one by one, I don't know where we'd come from and who could do it all. But we're back here on this topic today. I believe, or I'm sure, because I've received such information from the field that people with disabilities will be satisfied with such a solution. Of course, there will be those who may not, which are to say fall out of application or will no longer exercise the right to release from toll payments, but I think we have really touched those who need this right, indeed those who cannot, as I have already said, use an intercity transport which from Zagreb to Split, Dubrovnik, Rijeka or some other city cannot reach because they cannot get on a train, bus or anything like that. And don't forget, it's probably not a lot of people know that people with disabilities have the right to travel by train, bus have the right once or twice, now I won't be able to know, but once a year safe on a 75, 80% discount, and their escort is free of charge. So those people who might feel affected by these changes and the additions of the law will be able to at least at some point, one hour use it, use this right. But thank God, here I can say with complete satisfaction and a cheerful heart, thank God that most people with disabilities can use intercity transport, so that they can get on a train, bus or plane or any other means of transport. Those who can't, those who don't really have another way of doing it, are really orthopedically helping them, and I believe, and there's already some indication that for those categories of people with disabilities, given that their car really helped them orthopedically, we will succeed and put the commands that are related to such a car in the orthopaedic aid Regulation in order to make it even easier for them because when they buy the commands like they bought half the car. So help them and make it easier for them to move as easily as possible. I point out once again, the Croatian Democratic Community supports such changes and additions to the laws that the government has proposed in its amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53202	Thank you very much. Correction of the quote, Agent Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53203	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lukačić, I think I have heard well that you have stated that the proposal for this law or amendment made by the Government is in line with the remarks made by the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities. However, as far as I have knowledge of what the Ombudsman suggested for people with disabilities, it is not exactly true that these remarks are in line because I am asking a question or that question would actually go to Minister Calmeta, what about the blind persons, but not those who have the status of a Croatian military disabled, but with persons who have a 100% physical impairment where total loss of vision occurred as a result of the disease or injury outside of the war. According to the amendment we have since the government since 29 April, it is not included in the government's amendment, so I ask the minister later to give an explanation or that means that another amendment of the government will arrive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53204	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the IDS representative club, representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right. And on behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, a distinguished colleague, representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53205	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. By adopting this law, the right to release toll payments to all persons with a prescribed degree of disability, which are persons with 80% or more of the percentages of physical damage and persons where the incompetence of the lower extremities is 60% or more, with those categories of persons retaining the right to exempt from the annual fee for the use of public roads paid for in the registration of a vehicle. In this way, the regulation of subjective rights is brought into line with the financial opportunities of the state budget, which is the reason for the adoption of this law. It should be pointed out that this proposal specifically deprives persons who cannot use public transport. Here are a few of my predecessors who spoke about it and whose personal car serves as the only means of mobility. The application of new legislation or the abolition of free highways would affect some 24000 people with disabilities, and the state would save about 20 million kunas. We in the Croatian People's Party stand at the view that we cannot and must not seek exit from the crisis and recession by cutting the rights of persons with disabilities, although there are very many reserves in this area. There is a question of real people with disabilities, i.e. the right people with disabilities and the right to use them without having any basis. We certainly need to work to determine the true number of people with disabilities and protect them maximumly based on the degree of disability, not origin or time and property censorship. I guess it hasn't even dried off on the printed sheets of this proposed law yet, and the government has been working on amendments that are good. But the amendments are not entirely corrected by a mistake, but we are subject to discrimination in the section that frees the payment of the toll of a person with a 100% physical impairment but only in Croatian wartime military invalids. A few minutes ago, Sobol asked a question, so we in the Croatian People's Party are in the same position. What about other individuals who have a 100% physical impairment? I'll remind you. On 24 April, the Prime Minister, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, said the following about the bill. It's a law that has introduced a special standard for disabled people with cars in good times. As for the amendments to the law, I asked the ministers to prepare amendments to exclude 100 percentage people with disabilities from the amendment and addition of this law as well as from Croatian military people with disabilities. I repeat, that Croatian military disabled and civilian disabled. So, our prime minister, Mrs. Kosor, said on 24 April at the HDZ centre. That's why we've submitted an amendment that holds exactly what colleague Sobol asked, because an existing amendment like I said discriminates against all the other 100 percent disabled. And that is why, in our amendment, everything is identical with the government's amendment except for eradicating Croatian military people as an exclusive group that has the right to an exemption under this law. And I deeply hope that our Government and the Resort Ministry will have an understanding for these people, for such 100 percent disabled persons, because we really mustn't share them by the origin of disability but by degree and that the funds will be found for all hundred percent and those who have damage 80% at the lower extremities. The position of the Croatian People's Party under this bill will depend on the fate of our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53206	Thank you very much. That's why we've exhausted the club debates. We're moving on to an individual debate and the first to sign up for a distinguished colleague, Tanja Vrbat. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53207	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The promoter of this amendment and the addition of the Law on Public Roads in the text of the proposal is invited, we always have in the text of the proposal that constitutional provision we call upon when we pass a law. This is where Article 2(4) is mentioned. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which says that the Croatian Parliament or people directly, independently in accordance with the Constitution and the law, decides to regulate economic, legal and political relations in the Republic of Croatia. In our Constitution, however, there are also general principles on which the state order rests, some other principles of values on which society rests and where solidarity and assistance for the powerless are also present. So I will also quote an article in our 57th Constitution that says that the weak, powerless and others who, because of unemployment or incompetence to work, provide the unsettled persons with the right to help meet the basic needs of life, and Article 2 of the same article, in particular, points out: "The special care of the state devotes to the protection of disabled persons and their inclusion in social life." Therefore, these articles could also be quoted in calling on the Constitution when proposing this bill. Article 3 of our Constitution states that freedom, equality, and equality are the basic values on which our order rests. I am now a little confused after my colleague Hursa and colleague Sobol about these discrimination against people with disabilities caused by disability. I think it would be extremely inadmissible if that was what my colleague Hursa said and we loved the minister to hear what it was. The bill of law was one. Then Mrs. Kosor reacted immediately and said we misunderstood. However, we have not misunderstood because we all have this bill and I guess we all know how to read, so we got it right. But then came the amendment of the government which is an integral part of the proposal, but everything comes together when the sum is not understood who is now released. Whether they're just military people with disabilities or civilian disabilities, I believe the minister will explain it to us so there's no doubt. It's too serious. I have cited these quotes from our Constitution that we must bear in mind every debate here and every bill of law. The current Law on Public Roads found that the rights of a person with 80% or more percentages of physical damage, i.e. the person with which physical damage has been found to result in the inability of the lower extremities of 60 or more percent on the release of the payment of annual fees for the use of public roads paid for the registration of motor vehicles and tolls for the use of highways, buildings under charge such as bridges, tunnels, viaducts and the like. It also states that according to the available data from the Croatian Institute of Public Health on 3 February this year, a total of 24 thousand 334 persons with that degree of physical damage could be entitled to discharge from the payment of the annual fee for the use of public roads and tolls in accordance with existing regulations. The provisions of these new articles shall abolish those rights other than compensation for the use of public roads to be paid on registration of a vehicle. As I said later on the amendment tried to change something, we didn't understand, so the minister will now tell us more clearly. In explaining this amendment to the law, it is explained that toll fees for the use of highways operated by Croatian highways are to be paid by the Croatian highways d.o.o. for the current year, it would be necessary to provide a financial envelope of 13 million kuna. We're talking about 13 million kunas here, and what is 13 million kunas when we know that the same HAC has paid 25 million for painting and allegedly glazing tunnels. Isn't that the ultimate hypocrisy? These are some of the Croatian absurdities that have led us to a state where the economic difficult quasi collapses and it is no wonder that we have come when we are chasing the fundamental values of this society. This country has worked too long against its basic values and it is no wonder that we are not in bananas today, but as our colleague said in the banana plantation that I quote it. My colleagues and colleagues, there are a number of health professionals and experts among you. You all know how much mobility for people with special needs is important and important for the quality of their lives and so on and for their involvement in as normal a life as possible. It is not fair for the weakest and the powerless to train the strictness, that those who are due to their health problems and thus have an extremely increased cost of life, to break the consequences of the economic crisis. That's not fair. And these citizens of the Republic of Croatia have shown that they are very much crying for righteousness. The prime minister is said to have been said several times in the media before she became prime minister and she was the protector of all the powerless, poor, sick, and now she is abolished, and it is likely to be carried out toll cuts for people with disabilities. To repeat, I hope we don't discriminate against people with disabilities for cause and disability. As I said before, so we didn't get anything wrong with this proposal of the original law, it was really predictable for everyone, all the 100% disabled lifting of these benefits, but also persons with a lower degree of physical damage and persons with 80% or 60% of physical damage can also be immobilised and in order to be mobile must be used by means of public transport. Therefore, a heart patient with 60% body damage that requires oxygen when moving, and he is not fully mobile, even though his legs are, for example, not damaged. We already have in Croatia an example of whether persons with disabilities are discriminated against by the cause of disability, and these are blind persons and I want to repeat this at this time, it is really embarrassing that with us... such laws that a child born with visual impairment, or someone who has lost sight in the Homeland War, are discriminated against and that large differences receive fees with great differences. [[You don't understand.]] I think it's inadmissible, and I believe that everyone here will agree with it, so declaratively, and when your laws come to the debate, then it's a vote to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53208	Thank you. We have several replicas, a correction of the quote. First, colleague Škulić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53209	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Sparrow, I'd rather or less sign what you said, it's really not fair. It's simply not fair once again, we're intruding discrimination. We are the signatories of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, we are submitting a report, or we should have submitted a report in the 5th month on what we have done on this plan. So once again, we introduce discrimination among blind people. Blind people are 100% disabled, so, no matter what they don't have, they're simply forced to use a personal car when they go to another city, they can't manage in another city without an escort, and we know how much they receive. Also when I talk about reforming the social care that should have happened in 2007, I just don't understand the reform needs to be over in 15 days, and yet we haven't, it's not in public debate yet. So there won't be any reforms, there won't be an inclusive addition this year, so our disabled people will have nothing to pay for the highway for anything, so whether it's their cultural life, their fun life, their right to treatment. So they must enjoy the fullness of life. One that is available to all must also be available to persons with disabilities. So once again I ask the minister and the people of the ministry to, or let them delay the application of the law until an inclusive supplement is passed, let the blind persons be classified, so let the 100% blind persons be included in this law, because once again we will increase discrimination.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53210	A colleague of Jelash, also a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53211	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow Vrbat, you're actually an amendment to this law in the way it was proposed by a top hypocrite. In my opinion, in fact, the greatest disability of the current government is to consolidate state finances in a way that reduces the rights of disabled persons, and that does not seem to be the case, for example. in a way to tax the property of wealthy citizens, to tax capital gains and so on. By reducing the rights of disabled persons, the state will, therefore, save around 19 million kuna in this way, and to tax the achieved dividend, for example, will achieve half a billion kuna, so about 25 times the financial effect for the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53212	Thank you. And a replica, colleague Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53213	Thank you. Comrade Verbat, you said that my additional question actually put you in doubt. There is no doubt, the one category set out in this proposal of the Government's amendment has been left out, because the Ombudsman sent her opinion, objection and request to the Government on 7 May where she makes a basic remark on Amendment 1. Government of the Republic of Croatia. In this amendment, since only those who have HRVI status will be freed from toll payments, and the blind persons who have acquired this blindness with disease or injury beyond the wartime events proposed by the Government amendment will not be released from the toll. I also note that, in this opinion, the Ombudsman warns of the basic problem of the old one, but basically the law that remains in that part of the law that is likely to be passed, which is that the right to free use of highways was given to all persons who have 80% or more percentages of physical damage, but this percentage did not apply to only one physical damage but by cumulation of various damages, different percentages occurred at a certain level. So in that part, no analysis was actually done when it comes to the release from the use of toll. I'd say this is how it must have been easier for the government, take that category off to the toll, and that someone might have tried a little hard to see where these are the biggest abuses because no one can convince me that it can't be determined and where real savings can be achieved so that those at the very end of the line are just, unfortunately, it didn't happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53214	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Verbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53215	Thank you. Comrade Sobol, now you've made it clear to me what this is all about. However, I still naively want to believe that Minister Kalmeta will reassure us all together and will convince us that the government will not discriminate against people with disabilities in view of the cause of disability. And as for hypocrites, my colleague Jelash, there would be as many examples as we want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53216	Thank you. And one correction to the quote, a distinguished colleague, Gyurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53217	Here's the correction of the quote, so I could say it again in everything, but most of all about this hypocrisy, and also in the part where my colleague says she's still at the banana plantation that her colleague Ingrid sent her to. So I hope she'll come back, that she won't be so confused anymore, and that the only thing she wasn't confused about was reading parts of the Constitution, but everything else seems to me to be still there peeling bananas. So I'm going to tell her this: if this government were so mean, so insensitive, then it wouldn't have come out just from 2006 to 2010 as a personal assistant. Do you guys know what it's like with a disabled person?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53218	My colleagues, the twilight, you didn't answer for the replica, you answered for a rectification of the quote. You have a second plate under the bench, then you can do it this way, and now this colleague is unable to react to it any further, you know. Don't be angry, but we're moving on with the debate. Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53219	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary with his associates. We're starting with savings which are good, I welcome, but unfortunately we're going the wrong way, with the wrong category of people in one way at a time inappropriate way that we definitely don't show solidarity with people who have lost their health. That's maybe what we were supposed to do last time, and start with other things that really are a lot. In this House, of course, of all possible government announcements, here is one announcement today that we are talking about abolishing public transport to MPs, I welcome that. Although, of course, there will be some objections because one part of people has a lot of field work, but anyway. The crisis needs to give up part of the funds of those who have. We have listened to such an announcement and other similar announcements in recent months, but we have not seen a concrete proposal in the House yet. There's no law, there's no bill of law that we're going to discuss where we're going to save on those who have the power to make. But the first proposal has arrived, which defines that we will take people with disabilities, as Col. Škulić told them that this is the basic need of life. This is not to people who are freed from the toll needs of the hira because they cannot use public transport, they cannot take the train, they cannot take the bus, they must use a personal car, that is, direct help to people to have a simpler life. And we started with such savings, though, the Ministry of Transport, the sea and infrastructure made a statement on April 22nd, saying that about 40 million kuna would be saved on about 30,000 people. Now we see in the law that there is something smaller, or that it is 13 million kuna. So 13 million kunas will be savings specifically from this, I wouldn't say measures but to deny people who really need that help. It's about 600 kuna per person. No budget rebalances, no other savings proposals except media announcements. The prime minister is very effective there, she knows when to use the announcement in the media to take up space in the media. There are no concrete ones written in the House, no savings on those who are the richest. We've seen the announcement of tax reform, and that's where we're going to cut 5% of the salary tax on those who pay gross 50, 60, 100 thousand kuna. So we're going to make life easier for them directly. We'll raise the salaries to the richest by several thousand kunas, that's no problem, but we'll take 600 kunas per person to the disabled. So one totally guilty and socially insensitive direction in which the government operates. And another paradox, which is precisely what the ministry is proposing, and Minister Kalmeta is the head of a state-owned, Croatian railway company that is part of public transport, where large amounts of people are in manager positions where there are 400, 500 people with management salaries, who receive subsidies from that same budget where we are now saving 13 million kunas we subsidise HZ with 2 billion kuna. And not for infrastructure, not for investment in railways, the development of modernisation in order to make these railways more ready tomorrow for the European Union's competition, but for pay inefficiency, intransparency. We're not able to save a million kunas here. Out of two billion how much the budget is supported by the Croatian Railways, public transport, but here we have found a way to save 13 million kunas on these 24 thousand citizens. Really just gentlemen and a really great effort. I propose a minister who manages many systems within public transport, one of them is the Croatian Railways to make an effort to reduce these two billion kuna subsidies to make the company more rational so that tomorrow we can say there we have saved in the budget not 13 million kuna of 24 000 our citizens, but 100, 200, 300, 500 kuna of a company that has a huge space for savings. Of course it's going to go a little harder, because we've seen the situation in public enterprises where there's no order there's no transparency, and in my personal opinion, there's a lot of room to save. I wouldn't say colleagues before me mentioned discrimination after the onset of disability, it's absolutely unacceptable. We have more discrimination in Croatia. There are people who, for example, take pensions as 100% disabled workers who have pensions of a thousand and a half, two thousand kunas, and they can't live on that pension and can't work because they're 100% disabled and have insufficient pensions for life, while some have three, four times the pensions. There are many discriminations and I, regardless of how disability has arisen if a person needs to be helped to make his life simpler, would not allow the difference between the disabled. My proposal is, of course, in the end that this amendment to the law is not adopted for a number of reasons. It's first and foremost because it's inappropriate for us to move in with this group of people who are helping to function normally in their lives. Secondly, I have a feeling that much more can be saved in other areas that are not touched at all, except of course in nature when it is necessary for newspapers, for the sake of television, we'll say that we'll have sex, and then when the proposal comes on the agenda, we'll see. Because of these two things, although I believe that, of course, social assistance, and this is in some way a form of help, should be seen and revised in view of the times in which we are located but cannot be moved from people who have lost their health and who need to live normally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53220	Thanks, buddy. We've got two credentials. I'm a colleague of Lukacic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53221	Thank you very much. Oh, my friend Maras, you said it wrong. It's an incorrect allegation when you said that the state takes this measure to people with disabilities who have a basic need for life. On the contrary, it is precisely the right that remains for those who, let's say the basic need of life. And a little bit of teaching you are not disabled but people with disabilities you should have learned a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53222	Thank you. And a colleague of Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53223	I would also correct the allegations where Mr. Maras says there is no law, and that the first of these laws came. This law is not from the economic recovery package, I happen to have here on a bench plan for the implementation of the economic recovery programme, which offers a whole series of laws that the prime minister herself has said will send legislative proposals from the government's session every week, and today only some laws have heard that we will win on the bench. And just another language correction. As Mrs. Lukacic has corrected you about people with disabilities, I will tell you that people do not measure in quantities. You said the amount of people, we count a little differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53224	Thank you. A colleague, Ivan Bogovic, is next to be discussed. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53225	I thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Roads with the Final Proposal for a Law is currently a valid law on public roads of a person 80 or more percentages of physical damage, i.e. those who have found damage to the lower extremities of 60 or more percent are exempt from paying an annual fee for the use of public roads paid in the registration of motor vehicles and tolls for the use of highways and charging facilities. Regulation on the procedure and method of granting the right to pay the annual fee for the use of roads and tolls of the National Journal No 143/06. the procedure and manner of exercise of those rights are prescribed and documents proving the right to grant fees and the procedure and method of exercise of the right by means of a sticker identifying a personal car owned by a person with disabilities, the procedure and the way in which the right to exercise the right to obtain a smart card issued to the applicant for the release of the payment of the toll, meaning, form, content, colour, dimensions and location of the label, form and content of the smart card confirmation. The right to not pay those obligations shall be exercised by means of a solution made by the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and upon request by a person with disabilities. Since Article 62 of the basic text of the Law on Public Roads is National No. 184/04. the annual fee for the use of public roads and tolls as a source of funding for public roads and the income of legal entities set out in Article 66 of the same law, the amount of the annual fee is the county road administration and the city of Zagreb, and the amount of the toll of Croatian highways d.o.o. and the beneficiary of the concession. The aforementioned law supplementing the Law on Public Roads has prescribed that the designated legal entities from the State budget will be compensated for the amount of annual fees and tolls which do not come about because certain persons categories of persons with disabilities are exempt from paying annual fees and tolls. This year's funds were to be provided in the state budget at the position of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, according to data provided by the Croatian Institute of Public Health on 3 February this year for 24 thousand 334 persons. The proposed provisions in accordance with the applicable Public Roads Act are proposed to abolish the right to non-payment of tolls for the specified category of damaged persons. I feel positive that, on the final draft of the Law amending the Law on Public Roads, the Government has submitted amendments to which in Article 1 is proposed, persons with 80% or more percentages of physical damage, i.e. persons who have identified the physical damage resulting from the inability of the lower extremities of 60 or more percentages do not pay an annual fee for the use of public roads referred to in Article 62(1) of this Act for a single car owned or used on the basis of a lease agreement. The new paragraph 2 of which determines the physical damage resulting from the incompetence of the lower extremities of 80 or more percentages and the Croatian military disabled with 100% physical impairment do not pay the toll referred to in Article 62(2) of this Act for a single car owned or used on the basis of a lease agreement. The proposed amendments reduced the total necessary resources in the state budget for the purpose indicated and protected persons with the highest degree of physical impairment. I therefore support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53226	Thank you very much. In the next debate, a respected colleague, Mario Habek, applied. Comrade Habek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53227	Dear Vice President, representatives of the Croatian government, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Government, with this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Public Roads, only continued to implement its famous measures to save the Croatian economy and on the back of poor citizens. This time they will take what little money they have and persons with physical damage, namely their right to release toll payments for the use of highways, payment facilities such as bridges, tunnels, viaducts and the like. The elimination of free tolls for just over 24,000 people with disabilities is one of the precedents because the burden of incompetence of this government is transferred to the most sensitive group of citizens who need the most help from this country. The impact is on human rights. During the government's rule, almost nothing has been done to adapt public transport to disabled people but is forced to drive cars. But the government doesn't consider it a problem that these same disabled people from a personal disability amounting to up to 1300 kunas will have nothing to live for because they will also have to make that small amount that the government is unable to bring to the level of the amount sufficient for normal life to spend on tolls because they are going to rehab from one city to another, up to several times a month. They cannot get on a train or get on a bus and they must drive their vehicles and use public infrastructure that they will now have to pay dearly. A government decision like this will have side effects on the position of these people. As early as several years ago, Prime Minister Kosor promised to abolish VAT on imports of passenger cars for people with physical impairment. Here's Mrs. Kosor after six years, but not to cancel VAT, but to lift free tolls for just over 24,000 people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53228	Thank you very much, Comrade Habek. It is next for the debate, dear colleague Miljenko Doric. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. I'm a colleague of Daniel Srb's. He's not here either. And he's losing his right to debate. Honorable colleague, Jerko Roshin. Here you go, Comrade Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53229	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would only get involved in one part of this debate, given that I appreciate the needs of people with disabilities and that I would really like their life with certain limitations to be as easy and as good as possible. But at the same time, I am aware of the need to save not only in a certain way but to try to establish one, of course, however much justice on the one hand, on the other hand, tomatoes are seen, but with one feeling at least the balance to say, if not justice, to achieve both. Of course, one fundamental problem is always to deny some acquired rights of confiscation and the question because it was better that certain rights were not once because it was very difficult to take away that right but that is the situation. The rights at one point in the day, at one point, are denied with the same life logic when they were allowed to be taken away with a certain way, but with an attempt to establish one measure, one understanding as much as it can be. Of course, when we talk about the rights that we are all so sensitive to, then these rights never enough when we look for them, it is only when we are in the position of those who need to make those rights possible, then the question is how to make all these rights possible. The illustration with others often used in this assembly with other countries is used regardless of the side of this assembly only to add an additional argument to our side, so the illustrations with other countries are used when they suit us, and the illustrations with those when they do not suit us then are not mentioned at all. In the same way, I find it inappropriate to dispute the allegations or arguments given by the minister with the already prepared text, dissatisfaction with the reasoning. Of course, understanding the disability of people with disabilities in general, as colleagues on our side of this assembly have said, shows that the circumstances in Croatia have recently, in the last few or slightly more than a few years, changed significantly and that understanding of these problems is very, very pronounced and that they are trying to remove these problems. I can testify in the field of my profession, my work of architectural design and building an object that there is virtually no possibility of obtaining a useful permit for an object that has not solved all the basic problems of the movement of persons with disabilities and that there are differences in the categories of disability, that it is trying not only to generally with disability but also trying to give specific disability certain compensations or to remove them, or that persons with this disability do not have such a problem. The use of public transport that is not possible, of course, is one very pronounced category and it is actually the basis of this debate that we are now talking about. But let me express one dubiosis, one inconceivable, one doubt or one incomprehension, and let it be a burden only on my side, the figures of 20 million kuna that would be saved by this. A colleague tried that file, running behind a bus and running behind a taxi with great reason to say that these savings can be interpreted in one way or another. But I, on the other hand, don't question it, but on the other hand, I did a brief analysis that confused me in the illustration of the 25000 people with disabilities who exist, 20 million I tried to see on the roads that represent that public transport. We are not talking about local transportation because there is no issue of discount, i.e. making it easier not to pay tolls. I speak on highways and if you take it as an average toll that would be paid, which is one third of the Split – Zagreb highway as an average price and if that sum were to be divided from that 50 kn, which represents the circus one-third of the cost of the highway to 25000 people with disabilities, you get one very large number that is with several dozens that shows that, which leads to doubt whether people with disabilities travel so often and long. In fact, I wanted to draw one possible conclusion from this and see if there are any other solutions that would improve the situation, it would not thus deny not as its contribution but as a loud reflection on whether the rights that have been given might be misused. Whether this amount of 20 million kuna has been reached in a way that has not only been used by people with disabilities but perhaps by some people who are not disabled but who have abused their right. So maybe one technique and the technology of using those rights might show the figure a smaller number. So, I'm just putting on a table a technical problem, a technical solution to whether it's a different way if it's a card or not to prove your handicap, or if you're a person with that kind of disability, maybe that dimension wouldn't be so pronounced because we also heard yesterday in the current clock that one lip and not just 20 million kuna for a budget is significant. Thus, 20 million if it can be reduced has really been reduced. The amendments given by the Government show one if you will and subsequently displayed sensitivity, but also another consideration. Never thinking is enough. None of us are so smart that he couldn't take any more lessons from someone else to be smarter. But perhaps with one thought beyond this law now, but in a technology that would be that those rights are really limited to those who have the right to do so, which is why this right is given, not that they are abused by others. Of course, those others who abused them were abusers with the consent of those who had those rights. But obviously you know some of our sinfulness under the skin of all of us is simply not possible to remove, so that's why we're building mechanisms to prevent it. Today, in a conversation with coffee, I talked about a sophism that can generally be applied to legislation. He says the laws are not necessary at all, because those who respect the law don't apply to them, and those who don't respect them don't respect them anyway. But of course it's sophism, not one reality, because we need to know what's within the law, what's outside the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53230	Thank you, counsel. We have one replication report. She's a colleague of Hursa's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53231	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Roshin, I'm going to replicate to you in that section where you said that the amendment to the government showed additional sensitivity for people with disabilities. Yeah, just in one piece. In my debate on behalf of the club, I said that this amendment actually discriminates against a number of people with disabilities who have 100 percent damage and that's true. That's right. It's a failure the government has committed. I don't know. I'm not gonna believe it was purposely done. It may have been done by accident, because the prime minister had previously said that the amendment would solve all persons with 100% damage. So, not only Croatian wartime military disableds, but also civilians who are in the most severe financial situation, but, say, persons with disabilities belonging to Croatian wartime military disableds.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53232	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53233	So the answer to the replica is not to disprove what you said, because you agree that the correction may not have been made until the end of anything you wish for. But also some efforts in this direction by spreading, by lowering the percentage of disability, show an attempt at least conditionally to say justice. Because I said that justice was never reached. The prime minister has shown her desire and will to see things more closely, which does not mean that they cannot continue to see each other. However, this also uses two terms that are not exactly in line with each other in all the discussions. One question is the social status of a disabled person, and another is the question of the percentage of disability within that handicap. What time would a person look at it before giving that privilege to someone with a lower degree of disability, who is less disabled, but a higher degree of social hazard than the other way around? So, achieving that justice has different views on the side, it's only a question of whether man is accessing this open heart problem with a desire to solve this problem or not. But on your way to heaven, you know the hell's obstacles. So, I wanted to commend the effort, but that doesn't mean that all efforts have been caused by a hundred percent fruit. But I don't think it's the way, it can't be said that it's approached with these closed eyes and not having a heart for those who need help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53234	Thank you very much. The following has been reported for the debate by a distinguished colleague of Gordana Sobol. Comrade Sobol, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53235	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I called for the debate to reiterate once again the need to listen to some institutions or persons who do not sit in the government or are not aware of state secretaries or officials, subsistences who write bill proposals. I am not saying that they must do everything perfectly, but I will say that this bill produced in the Government of the Republic of Croatia is another example of irresponsible and hasty approach to the problem. It says in this statement, in its explanation, the consequences that will arise by the adoption of this law, according to the adoption of this law, the right to release toll payments, etc., thus prescribing subjective rights is harmonised with the financial opportunities of the state budget. We finally all know and we see that there's no money, so now we need to patch up the holes somewhere, see where it can be, so the easiest thing to do is look where it's forgotten that the most vulnerable groups of our society are, those people with disabilities must be. I appeal to the government's representatives to look at the amendment's proposal to the basic law sent by the D.A.'s Attorney for Persons with Disabilities, to look at it and to at least respond to that proposal, because according to the information I have personally from the D.A., I asked her, she did not receive any response and the government's reaction to her proposal. After the Prime Minister reacted when she saw for herself that someone really quick wrote something here, left out some categories, did further maybe injustices, then went with the amendment to the government, which, however, kept discrimination within a certain category of people with disabilities. And if this is indicated by the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities who have just been and from this House, that it points to certain problems where it is that eventually the regulation that we adopt is not in conformity with the Constitution, is not in line with the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, is not in line with the Law on Advocates for Persons with Disabilities, and that there is little to be said to the Ignorant Government regarding this proposal. And the lawyer suggested it, she cited one example that people with disabilities with 100% physical impairment, such as people with visual impairment, so blind persons, are no longer entitled to non-payment of tolls, i.e. using smart cards for free passage of highways, while Croatian military disabled with the same degree, or the same damage. So isn't that discrimination within a category of people with disabilities? Please tell me, prove to me any of you sitting here that it's not discrimination. Yes, there's been a new discrimination. I say irresponsibly and quickly adopted, or referred to the bill, to the amendments to the Law on Public Roads. Furthermore, what was not mentioned at all in the name of the Government at all, I guess it did not look at what the Ombudsman suggested, she went further with the amendments where she suggested how to resolve through this bill and the biggest problem that she was, and this is the problem of cumulation to say more types of physical damage with different levels of disability in order to achieve a certain degree which would then be able to use the right to release from the toll. And there I very much agree with my colleague Roshin, who was also his debate in this direction that it is obvious that there are certainly a lot better ways of saving and a much better way to come up with some justice or balance as you have said through the amendments and additions to the Law on Public Roads Administration, but someone has to sit down, someone needs to see what the total number of people with disabilities is, how many of them are using this right to release from paying tolls and whether there are any abuses, and if they have to determine penalties and take away smart cards, at the very end of the line and the lawyer suggests that this take away is several years. Therefore, it was not clear to me that it was not possible to access the amendments and additions of this Law on Public Roads in a much more studiolike way, if any amendments were to be made to the Law on Public Roads and whether there was a need to first go to patch holes in the budget, and we have many bigger ones who know where else to go. So my debate goes in the direction of this, and I ask the Government to review its amendment to the basic bill and to bring it in line with the remarks and opinions that come from the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, because, among other things, this House has appointed the Advocate General and therefore appointed him as an assistant, we will probably discuss her report for the past year for a short time. So, which means either to prepare a new amendment by tomorrow or to prepare the amendment properly until tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53236	Thank you very much. Your line hearing came from a distinguished colleague, Roshin. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53237	Thank you. I raised the table before your conclusion, that is, before you said which direction your debate is going, so I will continue anyway because what you said is going in which direction I have nothing against, I can accept it, because it is one good intention behind which nothing bad stands. But that's why I raised the plate, because of that first part of your speech. Because when you say that the government was irresponsible when she gave it, that the government had made a discriminatory proposal, then there was a sense of intent behind it, and I have no idea or can't believe that the government had one, a desire to do something irresponsible or that something discriminatory was going to do. Maybe you didn't mean it when you said that, but that's what it sounded like to me, and that's why I picked up the plate. Of course, I'm not the Government and I can't justify the political intentions and often we put ourselves here in this assembly in the position of the government and not those who are discussing the laws, as if we are the ones who run the state in that executive section, and not in the legislative section. That's how often our practices are in this regard. But I don't know, I'd listen to anyone who would bring me a proposal and an amendment so they'd analyze it, I don't know about that rejection, but in the end there's no shortfall that same amendment one of us is setting up and giving, and that amendment is being discussed, any amendment, in order to get the best of us. Because me and you and our side there are people with disabilities or people with disabilities who have full sensitivity for it, we can't deny that sensitivity either of them, but at the same time talking on your part has been very politically intrinsic and here it's been very substantially intrinsic, so the approaches are different and with the same problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53238	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53239	Thank you. Comrade Roshin, I will say again that the only irresponsible and hasty writing of this law, then its adoption could produce what it produced. That this is such proof is that we have received the amendment of the Government almost at the same time that we have received the bill. So, the maltene hasn't even been multiplied in the Parliament yet, we've already received the amendment to the government. However, the amendment by the Ombudsman found that further discrimination had been made. She found it in her statement sent to the parliament, Mr. President of the Parliament and to the government. She didn't get an answer, she didn't get anything. For me, that's ignoring. There's nothing else for that. Instead of answering in the end line, they explained why something was not accepted, but no answer was received. In her explanation, when she proposes a different amendment to the government, she says the government's proposal violates the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article. 5th and 14th. Law on the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities in art. 13th as well as the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination in Art. 2., 4 and 9 and a certain group of people with disabilities is discriminated against, placed in an unfavourable position with respect to another group of people with disabilities and as one of the examples of persons with disabilities with 100% physical impairment listed persons with visual impairment. So, what I expect and repeat the finality of my debate with the Government is to consider the proposals and remarks sent by the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities and to come tomorrow or come with a harmonised amendment as proposed by the Advocate General or, if that cannot be done by tomorrow, to delay the vote. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53240	Thank you. A co-worker named Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović also applied for the debate. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53241	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. We often had opportunities here to get laws that caused constitutional opposition or they were contradictory to each other or they were contradictory to themselves. However, speaking of a bill like this, I would say that it is an inappropriate bill. If it is also sinking, if it is so difficult that disabled people have to save Croatia, then there should be dignity in all of it. Obviously, however, there is no such thing. I think it's the most missing from those who should have it the most if they want to represent the citizens and take responsibility. For years, we have been waiting, we propose, on several occasions precisely on our initiative, specifically on the initiative of our colleague Škulić, to finally resolve the issue of not only visually blind people, but all persons with physical impairment, with disabilities. The government also pledged on several occasions that the proposal would be dealt with systematically. The years have passed, an adequate addition to physical damage has not been given, the problem of different disability evaluations has not been solved in view of the cause. And what did we get? So all those years were years of deception and years of lies and empty promises to get this now to end and something that's been corrupted a long time ago. And that's inadmissible. Well, it's really not the devil that people with physical disabilities, and most of them have acquired their disability by defending the Homeland, again the disabled will have to defend the Homeland and save it. And at least he blames it for it, or just the ones who deserve it. And that's inadmissible! When Zagreb's HVIDR spoke about it, when our colleague Skulic spoke publicly, then Prime Minister Kosor promised not only this one amendment we received today, she said. Please see, all the media published, April 22, 2010. "I'm correcting a mistake, 100% disabled, yet free toll." And the whole text goes, so all the media published it. And a good colleague says that's what our electronic media published, so it was pretty clear what it was about. We've already been angry and to that, so we need to react to something being triggered. So, really the government works like an old fico, if it doesn't push, it won't go anywhere. And so, still, let's go, the government ran in, it was wrong, it doesn't matter what it came for, was it greed, was it even thinking, did it misjudge? We hoped that the law would be withdrawn, but here we see another deception. Again, the deception because a little bit of the thing went public because some other problems came along, TLM and some other problems, and they overshadowed the problem. And what we're going to do about it now. It's just inadmissible. In fact, here Mr. Minister has chosen to say that it is true that in Italy they do not pay disabled persons tolls. Not in Italy, little where they pay, or little where they don't pay, they pay everywhere. And for what? Because they have an adequate disability supplement that makes them really gentlemen, not third-class citizens who must then draw special badges, cards as marked persons. And that was the speech that would be solved that way with us. Please, one blind, weak-sighted professor is not allowed to draw such a single card. He wants to have an addition because it is the EU countries, an addition which he will be able to buy, therefore, all of these services that are set free by individual laws. But here's what you're gonna do. You're gonna end that one privilege. However, how devastating the situation is, and we often like to call each other when we can't be the first to be there among Westerners and northerners, then here in the region. We like to be leaders in the region. So you see, one Montenegro, one Serbia, one Macedonia has 150, has up to 200, up to 250 euros in compensation for physical damage. And ours until recently had 200, 300 kuna, now it's raised to 500, 600 kuna, and that's how the government is saying how much it's increased that one supplement. These are the general known data that we were going out when we were looking for... Keep your voice down over there! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Raise the bat and argue so freely, act parliamentaryly. So we were hoping because the government kept promising to solve exactly the problems of diversity because no one was to blame for being born with disability, which he acquired, which he became sick or acquired by defending the Homeland. In fact, here we were hoping that at least, that really the government wouldn't have that much courage, better say impudence, that's impertinence, but the government wants to call it courage and determination. Well, it's easy to be brave and determined towards the team. Why are you not brave and determined toward those who collect extra profits? With them, you're afraid of them. The government is scared of these people. I would not say that you rule them and fill their pockets voluntarily, but the government is afraid and here we now see your supremacy in this particular category where the strength of a country is its pride above all else, so we must at least preserve it in poverty. Well, it won't save us. You give a look around you at some illegal quarry that is being drawn up, so it's enough to charge the fines or at least to charge for the mined ore treasure, regardless of what it illegally digs up and you've covered all these costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53242	We have two applications for replication. First of all, distinguished colleague Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53243	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Ingrid only complemented you in this statement of yours, in which you said that Mrs. Kosor said on April 22nd that she would return right to 100% of the disabled. My supplement is that she has stated precisely that this applies to Croatian wartime military disableds and civilian disableds. Since discrimination was made under the amendment of the Government, the HNS Club submitted an amendment eliminating the discrimination. I know we're tired. The amendment came on the bench today, you haven't been able to read it for sure, either. The HNS Club's amendment eliminates this discrimination. In my presentation on behalf of the club, I also asked Mr. Minister to respect this and indeed to allow all persons with disabilities with 100% disability to be transported free of charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53244	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of counterpart Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53245	Here's a colleague to be exact. It was said at the HDZ centre just to look back at the press of parliamentary MPs and her allegations, Vesna Škulic, the prime minister said more than this, "Obviously there has been one misunderstanding and has dropped the charges of SDP's parliamentary representative Vesna Škulic, who claimed that Croatia is the only country in the crisis that is starting to save on the most vulnerable group, vowing that it will not happen".
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53246	Thank you. And second application of the replica, distinguished colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53247	Thank you very much. Well, here's my colleague Anticevic, I really need to notice a few things that you all today, especially you now from the opposition, are very, very much in favour of the rights of persons with disabilities. I'm just wondering now, why didn't you do it back in 2000 while you were in power? Because this problem that you've been talking about... your colleague Škulić has been working on for years, so apparently the government isn't solving it, my dear colleagues have been extorting since your authority. I don't want to blame you here right now and I don't blame you for not solving it, because I know it's a difficult problem and we're having a hard time solving it. It took years for these problems to be solved, to get a unique body of art so that we can finally go right by the rights of persons with disabilities to really have those who need it most. And as for the compensation for the physical damage that you mention that other neighbouring countries have a far higher amount, so they only have colleagues, that's all. They don't even have a personal assistant. They don't have a law on hiring people with disabilities, they don't have a fund that encourages an employer, they copy it from us. We're the brightest example in the region. So you can't please and think about it and don't say that the government doesn't do anything and that nobody did anything, so you should have started.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53248	Thank you, colleague Lukacic. Reply to the replica of counterpart Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53249	That's right, ma'am. And with a good deed, she would agree with you, and we began but you did not continue at least at the rate that was expected. Namely, you do certain things when you tell us why you didn't do this, why you didn't do it. If we were able to solve all the problems of this world and this society in time, then every government would be... us immaterial. And let me remind you, colleagues, that was the time when the National Strategy for Persons with Disabilities was adopted, for the first time in 2003. Unfortunately, there was little that had been spent by her in action, when you were able and positioned. So not two and a half years, not three and a half years, but already here's seven years not to count those 10 years ago. So I agree with you that this problem is not easy to address, they are always accompanied by significant financial burdens in the budget. We don't have to act like each other. But it's not good, it's not shooting now. It's not good. Think again. I think that even human beings will be wrong, to withdraw this bill because this really Croatian budget is not going to help anything, and it means a lot to these people. It means, first of all, one relationship of humanity to think of them at times like this. So I think about this should be one of our consensus, not who did more and who did less. We can do that on the subject. But if you have that argument, you have no argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53250	Thank you very much. We're done with an individual discussion. A esteemed colleague, Miljenko Doric, reported on behalf of the HNS club. You're welcome to meet your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53251	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, an apology for not being in the assembly when I was called for an individual debate. I was on the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest. We tried to assess when he came back around, but my colleague, Srb, and I, we were too late. Excuses. Namely, I will try to be in these five minutes extremely benevolent to the legislator of this law. We at the HNS are aware that today all of us are in the water to our throats and that we can and should look at three groups of measures to get out of this severe crisis. First of all, spend less, create more and lose less through corruption channels and scandals. Over the past year, the laws of this first group of restrictions, restrictions, restrictions have mostly been on our benches. I hope you all agree with me that only restrictions can't and we'll never get out of the crisis. Yesterday, we asked the Prime Minister to submit a report she had promised in the 11th month of 2008, so that we could discuss this situation, that we could set priorities, and that we could then, through these three groups of measures together, try to draw moves that will make us the fastest and most efficient way out of the difficult crisis that we are in. My colleagues and colleagues, over the past year, we have had restrictions on the textbooks of our students, on the transport of our students, on dormitories, on scientific research projects. Today, disabled people, and next week, 300,000 of our citizens will be left without additional health insurance. I would support all these laws if I knew at least one thing, and that's the money we saved through those laws that we've adopted, where he's planned to go, to which new technologies, to encourage which economic branches, to hire which employees, to education which students and students, to see which vision is ahead of us. This law will save us how much? 20 million kuna. Two weeks ago, he was a NATO representative here in Zagreb, and the prime minister said and promised to increase by 20 of our troops in Afghanistan. They'll cost us, colleagues and colleagues, just that 20 million kuna. I find such planning, such coordination, such intransparency not good. So I ask you, Prime Minister, come to the Parliament, bring out a vision, let's agree on what's in the first group, which from the second group, which from the third group of measures makes us really get results. New responsibilities for both citizens and the state cannot and are not solutions. They're not solutions. If we continue this way, colleagues and colleagues, I will end up telling you that in this case Warsaw Street will probably become the longest street in Croatia. It will stretch from Stradun in Dubrovnik to the riverbed, to Zagreb's Ban Jelačić Square, to the Osijek Corps. Believe me, colleagues, that's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53252	Thank you very much, colleague Doric. On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Tomislav Mihotic. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53253	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored MPs and MPs. The government's intention was not to discriminate against some people with disabilities, the government believes that people with disabilities, some groups of rights have and did not want to enter into discrimination against certain groups of people with disabilities. In any case, according to my information, the law is consistent with HVIDR, with the community of people with disabilities, and he tried, in part, and was in agreement with Mrs. Attorney General. What the government does is safe savings at all levels, not just savings at the level of people with disabilities. So these questions that have been asked about HZ can only be said and answered directly to the gentleman who has asked certain questions and findings, but in HZ there are only eight managerial contracts, not hundreds as well as donations from the budget this year have been reduced by 700 million kuna, so they are less by 700 million kuna than they have been so far. Therefore, HH is also an institution where savings are taken into account. And last year the budget was reduced by 9 billion kuna and these are some significant savings that the government tried to make, but what the government is doing is certainly a government's economic programme and very soon there will be laws that go towards the government's economic programme and cost reduction at all levels. As for the amendments to be tabled, the government will consider them and be manifested to them. Therefore, in the vote, you will have the answer to these amendments that have been set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53254	Thank you, Secretary of State. One correction to the quote, colleague Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53255	Mr Secretary of State, it is incorrect that this bill with the Government's amendments is in line with the Attorney General's proposal for persons with disabilities when you were unable to answer it. You haven't responded to her comments, and when you look at the proposal for her amendments compared to what you've suggested, it's inconsistency. And you're saying that you're in line with HVIDR's opinions, the community of persons with disabilities, and I don't know who else, and he's left out of line with the basics, the Constitution, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination and the Attorney General's Law on Persons with Disabilities. It's less important in this whole story.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53256	Thank you very much. ... All right, all right. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] A representative of the government always, can answer the word, is not he...... Okay, you'll explain that later. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] After all, the government is on the move to manifest itself around the amendments, so it will. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. This concludes today's session. Tomorrow we begin work normally at 9.30 and will not be first in line point 5. but point 6. Report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53257	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law amending the Law on Public Roads. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 538. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The government has submitted amendments that become an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The amendment was also submitted by Danica Hursa. I ask the motionary's representative to declare the amendment submitted, Mr. Ivica Perovic, State Secretary. Here you go. On the amendment of Ms. Danica Hursa, 1st Amendment to Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53258	I would like to thank Mr. President, MPs and MPs. The amendment is not accepted. In the light of the current situation in the economy, the lack of financial resources and the need to streamline the state budget on the expenditure side, it was necessary to reduce the existing rights to be alimentated from the state budget. It is therefore proposed that persons who have determined the physical damage resulting from the inability of the lower extremities of 80 or more percentages, and Croatian military disabled with 100% physical impairment, continue to have the right to release toll payments for the use of highways and charging facilities. The adoption of amendments to the HNS Club would significantly extend the range of persons free of toll payments, which would ultimately mean providing an additional 12 and a half million kuna or a total of nearly 30 million kuna in the state budget. In this way, the basic intensities of this law would not be met by reducing the expenditure of the state budget. It is noteworthy that in order to recognise the right to release toll on a significant category of persons in the state budget, there will be a need to provide another 6 million and 300,000 kuna, i.e. 17 million and 300 thousand kuna are required for law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53259	Thank you. Mrs. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53260	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll say that, that we at the HNS club, HSU are aware that the exit from the crisis must in no way be required to abolish the rights of the existing, especially in the case of persons with disabilities, since the government, namely by refusing the amendment of the HNS Club, is the HSU I here publicly say that you must be prepared to take responsibility for the new introduction of discrimination in such a sensitive group of our citizens, and these are persons with disabilities. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-20-0.u53261	Thank you. Who's in favor of this amendment, please raise your hand? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Public Roads. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that the majority of the vote is 75 votes in favour, one abstention and 22 against the adoption of that amendment to the Law on Public Roads. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. We keep working and we move on to 6. Report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2009 by the applicant of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The motion for the act is by the government, which submitted a report to the Croatian Parliament delivered at the 16th session held on 6 October 2005. You received the materials by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on European Integration, the spatial planning and construction and the Committee on Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Ms Ivana Maletic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
