ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here in this already continuous report, we are particularly prominent programs that have actually been completed, because from the first generation of pre-accession programmes one part is essentially closed by the end of 2009. So, the deadlines have expired not only for the contract, but also for the payment. These are CARDS 2003, PHARE cross-border cooperation Croatia-Italy, cross-border cooperation Croatia-Slovenia- Hungary, nuclear security of the same PHARE 2005 and SAPhard programmes. So this is now for the first time that we can underline the second line by saying how much pre-accession programs have really been used, and the data is very positive and mostly the percentages of what has been paid in relation to the agreed crossing 80 percent. In some cases, and very high over 95%. A programme that is somewhat less implemented and you have all seen it in fact in the report and has commented on the SAPHARD programme, so it is intended to strengthen agriculture and farmers. When compared in this programme with other countries, the use itself is not so bad because, mainly in the agriculture sector, this adjustment of farmers to the use of European funds is taking place a little longer. So it's mostly small farms that need a little more time. And when you look at the SAPHARD deal itself, it was over 60%. Finally, a little less than 60% was paid because it is really important to learn how to implement projects for which the funds are obtained properly and in accordance with the prescribed rules and procedures. That's what's in pre-accession rules, and later the funds are crucial. So it's not only important to know how to prepare the project well, it's important to carry it out by the prescribed rules. If it is not implemented according to the rules, then the funds must return to the European budget. What we have tried to emphasize specifically in this report and to point out to you is the IPA programme, so a new generation of pre-accession programs. Five components of the IPA where the implementation also started. And you can see exactly in the report some of the projects that are being prepared and that have actually already started with the IPA. Specially funded areas are important strategic areas for the Republic of Croatia, and will be supported by European funds through the European funds from 2012 onwards, in a way that largely gives the European Union 75 kuna to our 25 kuna deposits. So in this part you can see exactly what is prepared in IPA and what is waiting for us in the future European funds, which is very important. One of the common issues that has been raised in public, and you yourself have asked for preparations related to the use of European funds and what is done to make use of these locations for 12 and 13 years successfully, and later especially for 2014 on. So, the new financial perspective for which we are about to prepare, this is already in 2011 to cover the period from 2014 to 2020, and there is already much more significant funding for us in certain areas, strategically already defined. So we have already said that for the Republic of Croatia, it is an extremely important area of transport, environmental protection, regional competitiveness, protection of human potential. This all fits into European funds through the European Social Fund, the European Regional Development Fund, the Cohesion Fund. So, from these funds from 2014 onwards, we are even waiting for us at the annual level of a billion-and-600 allocations, so now in this first two-year perspective we are talking about 2.2 billion but at a two-year level, it is a yearly billion 600 precisely for these areas and these sectors. And there, indeed, the Republic of Croatia sees its chance for a stronger and stronger economic development. And of course that's exactly why, because it's about significant resources that can bring us more significant growth rates. It is therefore a priority to prepare well and quality at all levels. Therefore, these preparations are implemented and implemented in terms of education itself, institution building. IPA has a much larger number of institutions and a larger number of people involved compared to the first pre-accession programmes. So this is a large number of experts for individual areas related to the implementation of pre-accession programmes, later funds. It is not only about project preparation but also about quality financial implementation and monitoring of implementation. The knowledge is different which s in this system require. So right now, we already have a thousand people who are actually well-prepared and educated, and that number is still increasing, because in fact the funds will cover projects at all levels and enter all the pores of not only the state budget, but also the budget of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. So, with education and institution building, the following is especially about defining strategic priorities, harmonising strategic priorities with local towards national level, and then the next step which is particularly important, harmonisation from the central level towards the European Union's cohesion policy. After the harmonisation of strategic priorities itself, we work more intensively to prepare the projects, so this is not the process that goes only after, it happens all the time parallelly, that is, through pre-accession programmes we prepare projects for funding from European funds. So, this is something that we haven't started working yesterday or today but since 2008, 2007 it takes very, very intense preparations to successfully participate in cohesion policy and really make a quality withdrawal of European funds. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53264	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, esteemed co-workers and colleagues. At the 52nd session held on 22 April 2010, the Finance and State Budget Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2009 as a parent body. Among other things, the debate drew attention to the need for stronger communication between state institutions and institutions at local level, particularly with regard to the implementation of as high-quality education as possible for the preparation and development of programmes that are being run for the use of pre-accession programmes for EU assistance. The debate also expressed satisfaction with the high percentage of the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union since Croatia used more than 90% of the available funds through the first generation pre-accession programmes and pre-accession funds. The debate also praised the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the resolution ministries to organise and educate the development of programmes at local level, which have already produced great positive results. Such assistance is also necessary in the coming period in order to make as much use of the new pre-accession programmes as possible, especially at local level. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament supported the report in question and decided unanimously to the Croatian Assembly to adopt the Report on the use of pre-accession EU assistance programmes for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53266	Thank you. Do the other representatives want it? Ms. Mariana Petir, on behalf of the Committee on Environmental Protection. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53267	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, the Honorable Director. At its 36th session held on 20 May 2010, the Environment Protection Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the use of pre-accession EU assistance programmes for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2009 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by means of an act of 8 March 2010. The environmental protection committee shall be based on Articles 123 and 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report in question as an interested working body. In an opening presentation of Mrs Dubravka Flint's report, the head of the National Fund Sector, explained that the negotiation of the old generation of CARDS, PHARE, ISPA and SAPARD funds was completed and that the implementation of the projects was ongoing. The CARDS and PHARE programmes, related to cross-border cooperation and nuclear security programmes, show high efficiency of allocated funds from 60% to over 90%. As regards ISPA and SAPARD programs, the usability is lower, but progress is visible during the observed period. The most significant activities in the period from 1 July to 31 December were related to a new generation of ISPA funds, of which 95% of the funds have already been agreed, and the projects financed by the Bikarac Regional Centre in Sibenik-Knin County have been highlighted with no difficulty. As regards the IPA programme in component 3B, it is related to environmental protection programmes. It is the preparation of documentation for the financing of the Kaštijun and Marinščina projects. Despite the public perception that funds from pre-accession programmes are making worse use of the report, the report shows that these funds are highly usable. In the follow-up, the Commissioners commented on the use of funds by county and explained how to closely monitor the application, approval and implementation of projects. In particular, the good implementation of cross-border projects in the counties that have good relations with their neighbours is highlighted and the better use of funds in the counties that have well-prepared projects is highlighted. After the introduction of the introduction of the Head of the Department of Biodiversity at the Ministry of Culture, Ms Ivana Jelinić and Mr Neven Trenc, the Head of the Department for the Assessment of Acceptability of Nature Procedures of the State Institute for Nature Protection, met the members of the Committee with projects related to nature protection and showed the importance that nature protection programmes can be financed from different pre-accession programmes for environmental protection, but also those programmes related to organic agriculture, maritime development and rural development. It is necessary to make sure that all strategic documents of different funding programmes as one of the priorities are always attended and nature protection projects. Ms Andrea Neral Lamza, EU Department of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, pointed out that since 2009, the fund has been accredited for the application and implementation of programmes financed from European funds and has not mentioned the preparation of documentation for 16 waste management centres and for another hundred waste disposal projects in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Following the debate, the Environment Protection Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament a report on the use of pre-accession EU assistance programmes for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53268	Thank you. And on behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, Mr. Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53269	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, Madam Director. At the 32nd session held on 29 April, the European Union's pre-accession assistance programmes for the period 1 July to 31 December 2009 were discussed by the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by means of an act of 18 March 2010. The Committee shall be based on Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report in question as an interested working body. In the opening statement of its proposal, it pointed out that the first generation of the CARDS, PHARE and SAPHAARD pre-accession programmes has been negotiated and that the implementation of projects in CARDS, PHARE and ISPA is ongoing, and the final report will be drawn up for each of the programmes following the completion of payment deadlines. In particular, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council on the basis of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as well as the principles laid down in Article 108(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of In the period from 1 July to 31 December 2009, the European Commission allocated 46.51m euros on behalf of the PHARE, ISPA, SAPARD and IPA components I, III and IV programmes. In total, up to 31 December 2009, funds were requested for the European Commission's 347.12m-euro programmes, with two hundred ten six-point sixty-one million euros. In the period from 1 July to 31 December 2009, the most significant activities were related to the implementation of the new IPA pre-accession programme and the management of money. Following the opening hearing on the committee, I support the adoption of the report in question. Regarding the information presented on the percentages of contracts and payments made for individual first-generation pre-accession programmes whose contract has been completed, which exceed 10%, the satisfaction of the results achieved has been shown. In this context, the importance of presenting the above-mentioned results to the public is also highlighted, in which there is often an unwarranted view of the unpreparedness of the projects and of the poor use of pre-accession programmes. After the debate was held, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction decided unanimously to propose the next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. The report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2009 is hereby adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53270	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53271	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable State Secretary. When we look at this report, we can determine that it's technically progressing. The scope is greater than ever and it has been introduced part of the application for the second time in a row that just came here from the MPs. I will speak on behalf of the SDP club, and I will point out, of course, the good things that are in this report, especially the visible growth of professionalism in local self-government units. But the SDP will also continue to warn of failures in the absorption system especially in the time of rapid accession to Union membership and structural funds. Because if we don't point out the gaps, then there's no room for excessive boasting. In a row by report. As far as CARDS and PHARE are concerned, the completion of these programmes is not at all a questionable strengthening of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. So, especially as we approach and very quickly, we hope to join the European Union. We do, though, have a controversial drastic growth of some agencies, personnel, when we don't particularly know what these people are still doing. We are not at all concerned with cross-border cooperation projects, because they directly affect the lives of citizens and show the benefits of the European Union right in small areas. So they kind of communicate Europe to the citizens. We're sorry it couldn't be done for the entrepreneurs anymore. I'm talking about those pilot projects about the grand scheme for entrepreneurs, but it should be taken into account that it couldn't have been done too much, there wasn't too much maneuvering space. But here's what we're interested in as the first question of how it's going at this point. So projects for entrepreneurs who have been, how much concrete projects have started and we have another question unrelated to this competition whether at least there are materials and educations about the system, means public procurement rules for our entrepreneurs. Because it would be really stupid if our entrepreneurs didn't take their share of European money cookies in competitions that are both in Croatia, both in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro as part of some major international consortium. As far as ISPA is concerned, we've always expressed that there were major problems. And now we think it's been a very long time, that relatively weak results are compared to the countries that were in the last rounds of enlargement. I mean this round before Bulgaria and Romania. That story was very difficult for a long time, even controversial. And I suggest that if we do, if we're going to study on ISPA, that's it. I warn you that if we're going to study on ISPA how large infrastructure projects are done, then we won't get far. As for IPA, of course, the birds here already know that the rules have changed here, that IPA is actually a major preparation for structural funds, and there have already been many problems that are very little written and talked about. For example, cross-border cooperation with members of the European Union requires, for example, the city, municipality or county to carry the whole project on its back for an average of 9 to 12 months before it gets the first refund, which is actually a huge financial effort for local self-government units. Many are already over-indebted, and I have heard the famous line of liquidity in a conversation with several mayors and commissioners. They are afraid to go to cross-border cooperation projects with Slovenia, Hungary and Italy because they want to keep their liquidity because they do not want to be in debt because of the projects. And that's a big problem, because many of them think that somewhere in the drawer might be the decision to abolish their community because of these crisis measures, so they simply don't want to go towards projects. On the other hand, talks with Bosnia and Serbia cross-border co-operation set an excellent example. At the last tender, how many hundreds of applications were made for BiH. This shows that the capacities of local self-government units are really good. A hundred applications for the contest. The difference, though, is that the story is still pre-financed, so it comes in advance, so there were a lot of applications, too little money, and now let's say the municipalities and the cities open say we had a hundred projects, the money was too little, and some of the state agencies were eating money for the second time to strengthen their capacity and spending no money. Why, say, increase the capacity of one agency twice? If they haven't been strengthened so far, I don't know if they'll know for the third time. So there needs to think about what to do in the future about it. As for SAPARD and IPARD, we're not happy at the SDP club and we can't understand why they'd brag about it. We de facto lost two measures at the SAPARDA. The transfer of money to another location remains units of local self-government suspended to work and learn on infrastructure projects. We're on the other side on the SAPARD issue if you're looking at pure statistics we have the growth of employees who deal with SAPARD we have an increase in the cost of people who deal with SAPARD, meaning in general this SAPARD machine, now of course for IPARD, and on the other hand, if you're looking at four competitions, for SAPARD we have a drop in the number of applications. So on the one hand, people's costs are going up, applications are going down. Look at the simple statistics. And now we have in the IPARD where we've had 37 reports of whether that's how one is, where many farmers are missing in real structural form. Some of them didn't have just the money to co-finance, the banks might not have given them, the state because of the crisis is gone, the problems of course with land books, etc., we had a very small number of applications. Measure three, which is still missing from SAPHARD, which is otherwise on the Ministry of Agriculture's website that will begin in autumn, is still missing, it already shows us in advance that there will be great illogicalities. Number one, for example, is just examples faced by units of local self-government. The holder of the construction permit project must be the unit of local self-government. At this point, the holders of this are utility companies owned by a local self-government unit and this is a very big problem and it conflicts with IPARD rules. The second story is if a local self-government unit raises a building permit about VAT. And that's what people ask openly. The second thing, when you're doing more investment, you have to prove the functionality of the whole. So if we're doing the sewers, it's not just a question of whether we're going to set up the pipes, but if we're going to end up attaching it to a water purifier, which is a huge project that a small municipality of a few million kunas of budgets can't afford, not even that borrowing. The third thing, as part of the project of documentation, is to give a binding letter of intent to the bank to finance the project, so that the unit of local self-government comes to this, goes into public procurement procedures, and to ask the Ministry of Finance, of course, permission to borrow, which again if it is a large expensive project of local self-government units cannot afford it, and that is a big problem. It's a similar story with roads. In the IPARD, the third measure, they must be owned by units of local self-government, they must be located in the spatial plan of the agricultural zone and that leaves, of course, another major problem that will ultimately work because it must be outside the building residential areas. So as far as SAPARD and IPARD are concerned, we are not the only ones who are not satisfied, nor do we know that the European Commission sent a letter to Zagreb that clearly states that it was, that we have too few projects, that we are looking for a revision... capacity and warns of possible loss of funds if we do not stop and change something. [[You don't understand.]] So... The letter was equally seen. [[You don't understand.]] I'll do it again, so on the SAPHARD experience in four years, we've got capacity growth for SAPHARD and the financial costs of the same, and the drop in the number of applications. The community programs we didn't want to touch, after all your work wasn't, you simply put in what was pre-accession funded for membership fees, but a few examples should be given. We still have poor information for community programmes, especially for those whom we pay membership fees, we have a great lack of preparedness in Croatia for networking and European competition. For some programs I will openly say that money has been thrown, we have paid membership fees, there is still no result on it, and in particular I will highlight... The seventh research framework programme and the CIP for the development of entrepreneurship, they are the key to networking our entrepreneurs, development, eco-innovation, information technologies, key to the development of the economy, knowledge and transfer of technologies, means the real things we need to make this country live even one day, two funds together weigh nearly 60 billion euros, and then the Minister of Science makes that story a few months ago and sign the paper withdraws the Ministry of Science from co-financing... [[You don't understand.]] projects. [[You don't understand.]] So in order to save several hundred thousand kunas, the minister went neatly to jeopardize several million-dollar projects. So for one steak, he didn't kill the cow, he went to kill the whole herd, probably. Now structural funds, what's coming to us. The easiest thing to say is 3 and a half billion euros. That's the easiest thing to say. And walking around Croatia and talking is waiting for us 3 and a half billion euros. And then what's beyond that? First of all, structural funds communicate poorly. Secondly, someone should say that it's not miraculous money at this point, nor that they're of course free. For example. I'll give you a welcome for what I recently learned about fishing will be in this now envelope where it goes, it goes three times less than it does for Schengen, it should be spoken openly but should be made clear, when we're talking about 3 and a half billion euros do we have ready projects? If we have big strategic projects in that model ready to go, because if we're going to do projects once we're in the European Union, then gentlemen, we're not going to get anything at the end, we're not going to get anything out. Structural, large infrastructure projects, strategic projects in collaboration with local self-government units are to be undertaken urgently, but I think the time has come for development to be planned at regional level. 3 and a half billion euros, so at this point only letters on paper are still, we don't have enough projects, we don't have enough capacity, no one talks about how much it will cost the first year of membership, share this amount, add co-financing, consider that we have to submit in the first year a majority burden on that, and there is a great financial effort for the state and it is almost certain that SDURF and confirmed by the Republic of Croatia will have to be credited for it, so we will borrow credit in order to use the European Union's free funds. A year ago, someone here in the Parliament said we could use the Structural Funds because we won't have to borrow credit. Here's a little bit of a change now. Finally, it should be said that there is still one big problem, it is a consulting market. We've already faced false consultants. With structural funds will come a little different story, you have a change in the role of regional development agencies, so you know that it will have to work differently and we need to edit a framework for activities called consulting services so that there is no fraud so that municipalities and cities don't become victims of God knows what kind of false consultants. Finally, when we look at the structural funds, and the current preparation we'll be happy about, we'll be happy if we pull out what we've given and that's what I'm including, and I'm including a sum of compensation from some 200 million euros that we're going to get. At this point, now watching our preparations. So, ultimately, we still lack the right to co-finance, the significant resources that people can go to, municipalities, cities, farmers, etc. for community programmes the same. We have illogicalities in the capacity of the state, still illogical. One of them is over-muffled, especially now that we've got the remains of Saphard, CARDS, PHARE, I'm sorry ISPA, CARDS, PHARE, the others are a little more casual. We are prepared with entrepreneurs and academic community extremely low, Croatia is uncompetitive, yesterday it was announced that it is uncompetitive, we if we do not urgently start to do some structural reforms we will also be uncompetitive on the European market. In particular, it is a question of farmers, for the very reason that the Republic of Croatia disowns a significant part of sovereignty, it is easy for them to tell farmers there will be great subsidies for you, while nobody in particular works or works minimally to prepare them for high norms and standards, for example, in the production of food products. Further knowledge of law, public procurement rules are still relatively different from entrepreneurs, and something needs to be done. Practice shows that countries that are starting to brand, i.e. Entrepreneurs or as already in the country that started branding their products, to introduce a C sign, to lift the quality, when their country became a member, did not go well and failed to break into the European market. That should start now, and the beginning should go so in real structural reforms. In conclusion, the last sentence, the SDP club will not accept this report because it does not show how much the EU fund-absorbing system is there I am talking about pre-accession funds and community programmes, but also in preparation for structural funds still filled with illogicalness, certain errors and blind streets. We believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia set unreal goals and deadlines that are still visible on the news sites of many ministries that stand the dates that we have long been through, and yet some resources are not available to us. So, they set unrealistic targets and deadlines, and now they demand the engagement and responsibility of all sectors in the Republic of Croatia to withdraw funds. And I honestly believe that at this point there is no theoretical chance that Croatia could use the entire financial envelope that will come to us when we become a member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53272	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53273	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I will correct the incorrect allegations, or evil hunches of my fellow Mondekara as usual, that Croatia has no prepared projects. I'll tell you just on the example of Požega-Slavon County, a distinguished colleague. As chairman of the Partnership Committee, which I am leading to have more than 150 projects in a different stage of preparation in the Požega-Slavon County, that these projects weigh more than one billion kuna and if each of our 20 and 21 counties have at least so much, and Požeško-Slavonska is one of the smallest counties, then there will be no problem that these funds will be withdrawn in 2012 and 2013 without problems. Of course, these are evil hunches, like every year we hear from the SDP, and here is God's report showing a completely different trend in using percentages of the use of funds from those wishes and forecasts of SDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53274	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked some clubs, and now I ask all clubs to invite representatives to come at 12.30 a.m. to vote on only one item of the agenda, and this is a proposal to assign a charter to the first convocation of the Parliament, members of the government and the presidency of the Republic of Croatia in the period from 90th to '92. The year recognises a remarkable contribution to the creation of an independent sovereign Republic of Croatia on the 20th anniversary of the Democratic Multiparty Assembly. This was discussed on two occasions by the parliament's presidency, however, for various reasons we predicted Thursday's 27th in the HNK to be awarded those recognitions. Today, they should make a decision on the basis of Article 117. Rules of Procedure so that we can do it technically first by Thursday, so please come, that all clubs are organized and that then we will only expand the agenda for this session and discuss, or decide. Here, I'm asking you, all the clubs to meet me here at 12:30 in the conference room. This proposal is divided into benches, so you can see it by then. Now let's move on, it's HSS and Ms. Representative Mariana Petir's Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53275	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and deputies, Madam Secretary of State, Madam Director. The HSS Representatives' Club will support the report on the use of EU pre-accession assistance programmes for the period from 01 July to 31 December 2009. The first generation pre-accession agreement between CARDS, PHARE and SAPHARD has been completed and implementation of projects in CARDS, PHARE and ISPA programmes is under way. The data show that the allocations were successfully used. Regarding the information presented on the percentages of contracts and payments made for individual first generation pre-accession programmes whose contract has been completed, which exceed 90%, we can highlight the satisfaction of the results achieved. I will remind you that 97.68%, CARDS 2004, were contracted for the CARDS in 2003. 94.61%, PHARE 2005. 87.41%, PHARE 2006. 85.22%, ISPA 94.73%, and SAPHARD 61.70%. Often, the opposite information is heard in the public, sometimes malicious and even political accusations that pre-accession funds in Croatia are not being used to a sufficient extent, and sometimes there is a step further that I witnessed last week on a television show. The mayor of one county said, I quote, "that the counties in which there is no political option are the same and at the state level better use funds because the state gives them nothing, so they turned to writing projects for pre-accession funds," the end of the quote. However, this statement is denied because it is a day to show the use of funds towards the counties, so it is evident that the criteria for funds are not political belonging to a particular political option but a well-prepared project, and such projects had 13 counties and many municipalities and cities in Croatia. This does not mean that much more effort and effort should not be put into it than has been the case so far, but it is also necessary to present the above-mentioned results to the public in which a frequently unwarranted view on the unpreparedness of projects and the poor use of pre-accession programmes is often made. Many counties have formed departments for European integration and have development agencies. Some work great because they have hired people from the profession, and in some counties there are problems with production of quality projects and the success of applications because instead of experts in these agencies, they have enlisted responsible party staff or coalition partners who serve as handlifters in the county assemblies, which will prove a bad way in the long term because any new competition for pre-accession funds and later structural funds are increasingly demanding and therefore it is important to have qualified people. I would refer specifically to a pre-accession programme that has ended, and it is directly in the interest of farmers, it is about SAPHAARD, which they would like to have been more successful after all. At the end of the 4 rounds, 49 projects of the total value of support were agreed for just over 151 million kuna. Of the 49 projects agreed, they were paid 37 with a total amount of aid of EUR 117.23 million, amounting to 77.56% of the contracted funds and 48.18% of the available. SAPHARD in the Republic of Croatia is characterized by high project values. The average support is about 3 million kuna per project with relatively weak dispersion of only 49 projects. Due to complicated procedures, the programme does not seem to have gained great popularity among farmers. The entire system of preparation of SAPHARD projects has proved complicated for small users, family farms and crafts, as due to the complicated procedure requires great costs before the implementation of the projects themselves, and small projects are shown to be invaluable and have been insisted on documents that are not common in the business world. The current IPARD programme, under which the first grant tender was opened by 4 March, received 37 applications. The applications are still in the administrative control process and it is not possible to give a final picture of the state of registration at the moment, but from this number there appears to be no greater number of applications than the case in SAPHARD. There are a lot of limiting elements in the IPARD plan itself. Limited number of cattle per farm, limited area for pasta production, inability to invest in the processing of fruits and vegetables, etc. and a number of new documents which were not requested in SAPHARD need to be put in place, the procedures are increasingly complicated both because of the increased number of criteria and because of the European Commission’s auditor’s demands, and the network of consultants on the ground has been underdeveloped. So here, on behalf of the HSS Club, I also appeal to the county development agencies, but also to the Croatian Agricultural Agency and the Advisory Service to help agricultural family economies write projects, because they themselves will have a hard time doing the job. The money that lies in the funds and that is waiting for us when we enter the European Union, which is 800m euros for agriculture, rural development and fisheries, should be used wisely to help the agricultural family economies because the large one takes care of itself anyway. In the period from 1 July to 31 December 2009, the European Commission allocated 46.51m euros to the National Fund for PHARE programmes, ISPA, SAPhard, IPA components 1, 3 and 4. A total of EUR 347.12m were requested by the European Commission programmes by 31 December 2009, and 296,61m euros were allocated. During the period from 1 July to 31 December 2009, the most significant activities were related to the new IPA pre-accession programme and money management. In this segment, I would particularly like to highlight the priority sectors that are part of the operational programme for environmental protection, and this is a project to preserve quality drinking water, clean up waste water and waste management for which 96.7m euros have been provided from 2007 to 2011. Although Croatia generates a smaller amount of both total and municipal waste per capita compared to other European countries, unregulated landfills are a constant threat to the environment. To date 78 dumps have been rescheduled, and 221 unsettled dumps remain at various stages of recovery. Croatia is 5th in Europe at the level of renewable water resources, however, the share of the population supplying water from public water systems is around 75% while the population's integration to the public sewerage network is only 40%. The Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund as an implementing body for the waste and Croatian water sector as an implementing body for the water sector will be difficult to prepare valid projects if the counties are not seriously involved in the process. In fact, even a third of the counties have not yet defined locations for the county waste management centres, have not signed agreements with municipalities and cities to accept the location, which is a prerequisite for making a project documentation at all, and therefore looking for money. The same is the case with projects running for the structural funds of Croatia, for the construction of water supply systems of counties and disposal systems, which is a prerequisite for establishing a municipal enterprise in the county that will be the holder of this activity, and for resolving property legal relations which are not unfortunately solved nor for any projects for which the money is already approved through the IPA. So without the joint work of regional and state authorities, there will be no success in the implementation of the projects, nor the financial resources that are at our disposal, and therefore all actors need to take their obligations very seriously, because regardless of the political option we belong to, our common interest is that we have a better standard and communal infrastructure, and that means that we have to do something ourselves so that the money offered can be used. We commend the efforts made in education organisations, the development of programmes, because such assistance is necessary to make use of as much money from pre-accession funds as possible, especially at local level. Croatia has used more than 90% of the funds available through the first generation of pre-accession funds, which is a good result. And we will support this report in the HSS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53276	Thank you very much. It is up to the HDZ Club and Mrs. Representative Marija Buric-Pejcinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53277	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, Ms. Director, colleagues and colleagues. Every time I talk about funds I can't and can't be emotional, because that's where I worked when it was being created. And it always saddens me to hear the powers of remarks about a very complex job, a very serious job and a job that Croatia has met backwards for several years, which has presented everyone with a challenge and a problem. The fact is that some programs if you look at the PHAR program as it had rules, how it was done in PHARE, which PHARE funds in the 1990s countries that were then PHARE users, you could not believe that this same PHARE is being used in Croatia. When the PHARE finally came to Croatia's use since 2004, everything has changed, the procedures have agreed. And precisely because experience in those who worked much easier programs was bad. So when we evaluate the system where we are, where we're from, where we're from, and where we're now, and where we really want to get to, I think it's extremely important. I took the PHARE program, so you could say the same about ISPA. If you were to watch the ISPA results in the Czech Republic in some very developed countries from the beginning of 2000, when ISPA was founded, you would see that those in ISPA had major problems, and therefore the data that we have here, and especially those who have recently come, I think that in spite of the ominous, I will not be told by the manipulations, but by the prophesies of fellow SDP that ISPA with its three projects that it has funded will still show good preparation for IPA in that part, so the protection of waste water and the rehabilitation of the railways, that one good preparation for the use of funds in Croatia will be shown. But allow me, there is often talk that there is not much information in Croatia. Recently, a major event related to pre-accession funds was organised in Zagreb, an open day. I brought only one part of the material that was available there that seemed necessary to me despite the fact that I’ve been working on this subject for a long time. However, that morning I saw very few fellow MPs at that meeting. I think we should start all of ourselves, out of education, it was a great opportunity, there were all of them, and they used big projects and smaller projects, so they could ask them what kind of challenges they had, how they did it, what they did, what they met with, but they were all the resolutions, so all the agencies, all the agencies, all of them doing it, who on the spot could be asked about how they were doing it, what they needed to approach, etc. So I wouldn't agree with the fact that there's no information, but what we're all starting with us, and I think that goes beyond that, we should look for information. So they come very often both to the county and to the lower levels, but I think that they are permanent and on the web pages, there are these brochures and I think it would be good to start before the other kind of education to go with it. But here's to going back a little bit to see what our balance so far is like. Croatia is now 10 years old to say is a user of around 580 projects. 580 projects. And now let someone say that we don't already have some relevant experience. Within each project, depending on its size, an exceptional number of people are engaged. In the state administration itself, about 700 people work on which work is almost exclusively and only to work on funds, for those who wonder what people in agencies do. I can only answer that no structure has ever been created and can be created without agreeing with the commission and services, so within the commissions dealing with what programme. So there are no unnecessary structures, only those structures adapt at some point to the needs of those that Croatia has. I'm just going to give you one example of how incomparable some things are. Let's just say how big it's going to be, how many employees are going to be at the Agricultural Payment Agency, it doesn't matter. It is not only the size of the country but also the structure of the agricultural producers, so the more subtle the structure is, the more people in the agency have to work. Now, go back to our situation in agriculture, it will be clear to you that our farms are small, that as far as I know, about 2.8 hectares, in the European Union is an average of 18, so that already tells you how many people should be employed in that one agency alone. Within this, I think that's important to say, so in times when we wonder how people will be employed, which they will deal with, 79 companies in Croatia are doing services that they provide at different levels to those who use projects. I don't think that's irrelevant. These companies hire our people, these people through these projects get their money back, not to mention the effect again on the state budget, so that they pay, etc. And there could be a lot of things. When you look at the segment, I've recently read somewhere, and it's written in a newspaper how comparable the 2000 period to today, I think it was Latvia, and they don't know how many more projects in the field of environmental protection used than we do. It sounds very tempting for the paper, but you know first Latvia is in the meantime five years of membership, using cohesion funds and structural funds. Secondly, since the 1990s, she has been a beneficiary of the start of the '90s PHARE programme, how it can be compared. And by the way, I'm really happy to say that here in the waters we have a project in Karlovac, a new project is being done in Slavonski Brod, a new project is being done in Drnis, a new project is being done in Knin. In the waste you have Bikarac in Sibenik, but you also have one 4.5 new projects from Split to Istria, Marisca in Rijeka, etc., so we are working on the waste and these are already projects that are in the negotiation phase. In cross-border cooperation, which was about not talking, so a number of smaller projects that are also infrastructureal. About the railroad, rebuilding the railway which is the same topic, so since we have already invested a lot in highways since the beginning it has been said through ISPA or IPA or future funds, primarily railways. It is already near the end of the Vinkovci-Tovarnik Rehabilitation Project. It is now being done to rehabilitate Zagreb's station, two other projects are being carried out around Novska, Novska-Okucani. So on corridor 10 because of course you should know, the first priority is trans-European corridors. This is about corridor 10. But what's good, we start to deal with that part and sailing routes internal, ports from Vukovar to some other ports, even Sisak I think is in the plan, etc. So I can't agree with the fact that there's not much work, that there's no knowledge, but what seems to me to be a very important message of this report is that you can't and can't expect everything from the state level. The state level has done a lot and will continue to work and will continue to challenge. But what I think is the most important message and what is part of it is that we talk everywhere about people being first encouraged to participate in projects, to work on projects, to engage in education. And on top of that, I think this report is great, it really gives all the projects, you can see what it was, but it does report irregularities. If you had time, there's not a lot of irregularities on as many projects as there is, but those irregularities are I'd say sometimes funny, maybe funny from the point of view when we're thinking, but they're not funny at all. In European funds it will now do... control, and in the next five years when the project is completed, it will be done by the Court of Auditors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, even after 10 years when it all started and ended slowly it could happen that someone somewhere discovers that the money wasn't used well, and as far as I've seen for now are pretty benign things. Someone didn't, he got the books, so he didn't count the number of books, so he paid interest, and so he didn't read the contract well that interest can't be paid out of something. But it is very good that people, therefore, are small mistakes, can happen bigger, that people look at the mistakes they make and that in their projects that do not repeat such mistakes, and that they really realize that there is no or can be no fraud here because they are really first through the control of the Central Agency for Finance and Negotiation, and later and through other controls they can discover and that the real damage will be great for Croatia, because these coins will ultimately not be used, but also for the end-user because they will have to pay back those money. And here's maybe another word, two more about when results can be measured. So I can measure what's agreed. It's clear from this, there's already been a lot of agreed projects and what's been paid. It's only when you see what's paid can you really draw a line and measure it out that we lost that money or we didn't lose it. And I'm always sad to say that some people at ISPA are doing it because it's big projects, so it's big money for our opportunities and then they say when they see I don't know at one point... a ISPA yet no ISPA contract has reached the end of the process, which says after the contract was signed, two years for the contract to be signed plus two years for payment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So why scare, why talk about that something wasn't done when the deadline wasn't made. As far as I know, the Carlovac that comes in here occasionally appears as the top theme of those who do bad work is actually how much I've seen I've arranged for almost everything, even though it's a high contract on this project. I hope that's the way it will be when it comes to a part called payment. So these results according to these criteria are really great where they can be measured. The Sapards are worse, but it would take me a long way to go in the details of the SAPARD. I think some of them were already talking about it, that is, a colleague of the secretary of state. I mean, when you're estimating something, you really can't tell why something happened. The money for agriculture is the hardest money to use. And what needs to be known is that the money in both the SAPARD and the IPARD is the money that you must first have co-financing significant. Secondly, you must have pre-financing which is not the case with each other. So, considering and that the structure of our users in agriculture is that they are quite small users etc. What their capacity is all of this leads to, of course, all of us would be happy if it were 100% usable. But this kind of exploitation is acceptable at this stage and we believe that IPARD, therefore in the IPARD, that things will be even better. I think the secretary of state was also talking about how much it was about the system. That's very important to know. So this system is being permanently built. He's not finished, and he won't be finished until we get into the cohesion fund and structural funds. So, until we become a member and the challenge is someone says that now these have already got the money for education, so now they do. They do, there are new people, there are fluctuations of people, there's changes in systems, and people have to be permanently educated. I think at least today in the 21st century, it's clear to everyone that permanent education is the key to success in many things. And finally, so what seems to me to be important to the messages after this really good report for this stage, that certainly, there's a lot of money ahead of us. I agree, we should have all these projects. But I don't share my SDP pessimism because I know it's done and how it's done. Therefore, it is currently working on the national strategic reference framework. He'll go to broad consultation for the next six months. I urge you to explain this to people that they should participate in these consultations, because especially when it comes to infrastructure projects, they will write what can be financed. And then somebody don't wake up in two years and say why I can't put it on next year. This will have to be within this for those projects to be financed in 2012, 2013 and 2014. So, it doesn't work like a verse, it's done very well, and it's known what needs to be done. I think it's important to get involved in education. An education in large numbers and there is and I appeal that it really be even more intense. Working on projects, of course. Because here's only one example from ISPA when we wanted to finance something in the water supply in ISPA, so we didn't have a choice, but we could barely get projects. And why is that? Because these projects had to have certain documents without which they could not even enter the process and should have had certain permits, investment studies, etc. So big projects need to start now so that in two, three or four years, they can be financed. Here is what the Croatian Democratic Community club says to support this report and here is hope that this good work will continue in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53278	Thank you. We have one correction, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53279	counterpart Burić Pejcinovic argued incorrectly that all these irregularities are minor. Of course not. Many have been established that I do not repeat them here where a number of violations of the rules relating to public procurement, non-compliance with contractual obligations, and I will only highlight one example from the SAPARD programme where fraud is suspected due to incorrect documentation, i.e. faked documentation that even terminates such a single grant contract and user, i.e. the intended user reported to the County State Attorney for fraud.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53280	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53281	Dear Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In the process of approaching the European Union, the use of pre-accession aid is certainly one significant segment. Therefore, this report must not be by itself. We at the HNS Club are a little disappointed by the fact that we should discuss and draw some conclusions today. First of all, what we have done well, what we have done less well, what we have not done and how to correct irregularities so that tomorrow, of course, when we should use the structural and other funds of the European Union, we can be even more successful. Unfortunately, we started with a black white technique and that's not good. I can agree with a colleague from HDZ just before, to evaluate this report on the basis of a contracted and paid but the question is whether or not we could agree on something more and the question is why we should not objectively try to analyse today what we have achieved, what results we have achieved. We kindly tried to invite the Prime Minister to come to the Parliament the day before yesterday and file a long-promised state report. This report and our approach to the European Union are certainly an important part of what we should discuss. Whether or not we can do it, I really don't know, and I'm sorry we haven't done it in a while. In the phase of approaching the European Union, and I hope that we have little to do and that in a year, a year and a half, we will be a member of that Union, I would still ask some questions before this Assembly. Namely, colleagues and colleagues, what is the European Union still asking of us and what is it asking of us at this time? He wants us to spend less, he wants us to establish a legal state, he wants us to establish a more efficient state administration, and he wants us to develop an economy and create better conditions for the lives of our citizens. I think that every Croatian citizen can agree with that, that our common goals, so let's be objective and really try to contribute to making this European story a success. The European Union certainly cannot help us in that segment where we are asked to spend less, to reduce public spending, we have to do it ourselves, but the European Union can and wants to help us establish a rule of law, a more efficient state administration and help us develop. I will not look back much, or look at what has already been mentioned by some media, that last year we failed to realise 150 million euros available to us and then ask whether we will be able to use 10 times more funds in 2012. That's what we're discussing today. Then, we heard and saw in some media that the EU's ambassador to Croatia warned some members of the government that Croatia is underusing European funds. I didn't talk to the ambassador, I guess he did say that. A colleague, Mondekar, mentioned a letter from the European Commission, which raises concerns about the ineffectiveness of the government, with a warning that Croatia lost irrevocably significant money from the various European funds in the past. Is that true, I don't know. I'd like to know. Let's move on. In the report itself, I'm going to warn you of one sentence. On page 24, there have been developed comprehensive education programmes in the area of preparation, implementation and monitoring of projects already in place for employees and institutions currently involved in pre-accession European Union programmes, and education programmes will eventually be available to others outside the state administration. I'm undermining time will be available outside the state administration. So far, no one's covered that education outside the state administration, and we don't know when that's gonna be the case. It's something I'm asking the secretary of state to tell us what and when it's planned. Today would be good even to pull... , but in one objective way and with some countries which have done much more effectively for me during the pre-accession period, and especially now as members. [[You don't understand.]] I will only give an example of Poland and Slovakia. Poland is colleagues and colleagues at the stage when it used pre-accession assistance, and this is important compared to what counterpart Petir said earlier, she has prepared 4 thousand young educated people to be available to anyone who will ask to receive funds from pre-accession funds. Those 4,000 people got bigger salaries, got official cars, got cell phones, and had their hours cut off. 24 hours a day were available to everyone who wanted to write a project to withdraw funds from pre-accession funds and Poland did a miracle. Poland has thus educated all, not only those 4 thousand, because they have further passed on their experiences to others, Poland has made optimal use of pre-accession funds and today uses structural funds in one ideal way. Even three times as many applications for projects come from Poland, as Poland can withdraw them from structural and other funds. Three times as many. My colleagues and colleagues, Slovakia was in the most difficult situation of all countries that entered the European Union several years ago. She only had that one one I would say to the outdated military industry of the Warsaw Pact, and practically nothing else. Today it has the largest economic growth of all countries in the European Union. We didn't wonder how they did it? What did they do? Why don't you go that way? And that would be good, to consider, to see, to apply. Furthermore, what is missing in today's debate is another segment. As a candidate country, Croatia has already been given the opportunity to participate in the withdrawal of funds intended for research and development through its researchers and scientists several years ago. I would like to tell you, probably and you know that by 2013, and later this process will continue, the structural funds will be reduced, and the funding for research and development in the European Union will be increased. Therefore, there is great potential, great opportunities. We today, I would very much like to have a Minister of Science here, Minister of Economy, Minister of Administration, so that we can ask them how many of our researchers out of them 10 thousand managed to engage in European scientific projects, we heard just before the seventh framework programme was mentioned, how much funds they would withdraw, whether or not we need to help them, and certainly not in the way Minister Fuchs did when he abolished the co-financing of these projects since June last year. So we're missing this data, I'm certainly calling on the government to come out with that information, let's see, because I think it's very necessary to help the scientific community to make use of these funds to a greater extent. Wait a minute, I was underlining to look back now on Appendix 3.2 of the report. Just a second. Why do I mention so much and go back to development, science, innovation all the time? See Annex 3.2, so a set of programmes provided for innovation and entrepreneurship. Develop innovation network technology, develop environmental potential, develop an environment for innovative entrepreneurship, improve framework conditions and pave the way for innovation, expand innovative technology and knowledge, strengthen strategic cooperation between members of the economic development of state authorities, etc., etc. Hence, we have really not received any information from anyone about what we have done and what we can do. What is looking forward to is a review of the educational activities carried out at the end, namely by the end of last year. I must say, I was surprised by the numbers I saw here. When you take on how many educational activities have already been done, how many people have participated in these courses. And in those financed by the EU and those financed by the state budget and by projects or through projects financed from other sources of colleagues and colleagues, did you add up perhaps those numbers? Nearly 4,000 civil servants participated in that education, almost every other one. At first glance of very good information, I wonder why we are not even more effective in some segments? Because Poland has made 10 times as many countries with the same number of educated experts who have helped prepare and write projects significantly, significantly more than Croatia. So there's a catch somewhere. Where? I don't know, but something's wrong. Finally, regional development. I ask, here I would ask the minister I don't think the secretary of state is competent or should be harassed with that information, namely with these questions. How many times has the Minister in charge of regional development found himself in the past year or two, met with the mayors of 20 of our counties? How did they come up with regional development together? What priorities did they make? In what order will these priorities be financed? We just heard the news that a county has prepared billions of kuna projects. Excellent information, but for a billion kuna, you must have 100 or 200 million kunas of your own. This county probably doesn't have one, somebody's got to help them. I don't know anything about that, will it help them? Who's going to help them? How will it help them? What are the priorities we're going to help them with? So we didn't hear everything we needed to hear. We heard a black white technique, just one reaction to a fellow Mondekar. It's not colleagues and colleagues enough, it's one complex story and we have to do more anyway. We adopted in this House six months ago the Law on Regional Development, in that law is the government's obligation to prepare a strategy for regional development. In a few days, the deadline within which we should have that strategy expires. Where is this strategy? I don't know anything about her. Do you know anything about her? Have you seen her? How much is Parliament involved in the development of this strategy? I mean, colleagues and colleagues, these are the key moments we need to discuss here. In a few days, that strategy will see the light of day, by law at least, I have a feeling it won't happen. So I'm telling Mr. Secretary to explain to us where this important strategic document is being drawn up at the moment. Here, therefore, colleagues and colleagues I have tried not to go left or right but to try objectively to assess some of the opportunities that are available to us together to try to solve that each of us gives his contribution to the city, in the municipality of this Parliament, in the Government to try together to really solve what we have to solve. And we need to work this out quickly because by 2012 and 2013 it is not easy to withdraw 3.5 billion euros effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53282	Thank you. One correction, Ms. Representative Marija Buric Pejcinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53283	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm correcting only the quote of my colleagues, Doric, that they did well in Slovakia and Poland. They did not work well, and these were the fire measures that the European Commission forced them to do. I was in both countries in 2004 and 2005, Slovakia literally in 2002, they told her if you didn't have the absorption we're looking for, you won't enter 2005. And that's why they did this, and that's why they did what's extremely hard to do, which is to give special salaries to people who work on these funds. Try it at the state administration and you'll see what other people do because they do very serious things. Now these were fire measures for them, I hope we don't need fire measures, but that we should work, we should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53284	SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Mile Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53285	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. I will try to review the report on the use of EU pre-accession programmes for the reference period, as stated here. I would like to say right away that we generally consider this report to be a properly done report, a professional report, and in nomotechnical, reporting and statistical terms. So there's no reason why we shouldn't accept the report as it is and we'll accept it. Introductoryly, we are fully aware of all the problems you face as an institution at the same time and of the institutions that should be formed at local level regarding the quality of the implementation of these projects I think we could even express a certain commendation of the efforts your services have done in this regard. Since we're all doing a job for which we're still not qualified enough and we're not complete in some technical and professional sense. But me here, I think we should share some optimism that this process will finally end well. In order for the thing to be that the thing in our view in some way would be good and to go in the right direction, I'm going to try to refer to two groups of problems in the sense that I'm going to convey some practical experience here related to the past period and conduct all of these actions on the realisation of this job. And these experiences have been collected by the County Regulatory Agency in Osijek-Baranja County which I consider and I believe that the agency that has moved a lot in this business has certain references, has certain results in the implementation of these programmes, and I think that these visions of some shortcomings that need to be addressed and given in good faith with the aim of establishing a more efficient system, I think they are the right of sightings. So they think that one of the key shortcomings in the process and the process that is ahead of us, the realization of pre-accession funds, the lack of human resources, the excessive circulation of people, is mutual non-netivity. When they say so, they think and say that when a specific operational question is raised from the field, probably according to the ministry's institutions, the answer cannot be obtained immediately. In particular, they did cross-border co-operation with Hungary, the projects started 3 months ago, a recommendation from Croatia, so on our part, that everything should stop until the implementation workshop is held, and the implementation workshop has not yet been held, and since then it has been 3 months. They also consider that there is a delay in the preparation of competitions, because operational programmes must be by the European Union authorities. If there's some kind of formal error, the program goes back to work and there's a beat going on, there's a precious time wasted on everything we're talking about right now. There is no co-ordination between the ministries, so is their experience and sighting, and then agencies and ministries, so communication between agencies is mutual. It is thus the fact that the Regional Development Agency has existed for a year and that there is still no accreditation for the implementation of the programme. It's visible to the site agencies, which we don't think is good and is one formal and technical thing that needs to be removed urgently. It is also unclear to ensure co-financing in projects that require it. Namely, a country-wide reference financial framework was adopted, and then it transferred to local self-government units. And local self-government units at the moment cannot presuppose funds for these projects in view of the situation they are in. We think that here we should form, i.e. think, the thing is to think about forming a state fund for co-financing of the EU project according to the model that the Hungarians did. So it's not an unknown thing and our neighbors have seen this flaw and they've tried to sort of resuscitate it through the introduction of a fund like this. Ministrys use technical assistance funds, and at local level the whole work is done by regional agencies. So it's probably some logical solution and the conclusion that the ministry would bring these technical assistance funds down to the level of units of local self-government because the whole work is ultimately done by regional development agencies. It is also one suggestion, therefore info points per ministry or county, that there have been de facto for two years, but the impression is that they are not fully qualified and that they do not provide the quality of the service they are expected to provide. Finally, in the problem, I would say some experience with using funds to build infrastructure in local self-government units. So the problem is that part of these funds must be pre-financed. In order to do so, the municipalities must be in charge. In order for her to be in charge, she has to get approval from the Ministry of Finance, if she gets that approval, she gets quite late and loses one rhythm and loses deadlines for the implementation of that project. In addition, local self-government units must be regulated in this respect and ownership relations, which in certain areas, especially in the area of special state care, makes it almost impossible for a mission today, when unsettled moguls, in general, the sphere of ownership relations has not yet been arranged. The conclusion from this set of problems that I have presented to you would be that it should put an emphasis on empowering local self-government or create one structure of this service both in units, so in municipalities and in counties. We believe that this is the basis for the successful implementation of all these projects, i.e. the basis for the withdrawal of funds from the European Union programme. The second set of problems he would be talking about is actually just a review of the experience related to the implementation of the IPARD component of rural development. So, in the interpretation itself, you said here that it is working intensively to establish institutions for the implementation of the European Union's common agricultural policy financed by agricultural funds. The Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development has been established and employment is under way. So we could talk here now if we're late for a teaming up in the agencies, if we're already late, but it's probably going to be some other topic. I'd say something that's happening in reality. So, if we expect and if we said that the rural development component should be a substitution for something we called incentives in agriculture, so we abolished them, so we expect and announce that the peasant will therefore talk about the common man, I'm not talking about large systems that are doing very well. I'm talking about an ordinary man from my surroundings, a peasant who expected to now be able to get some funding in this component for some small projects that are big projects for him. Of course, regardless of the quality of the programme, and I have no doubt that the quality of the programmes will be done in quality, because today we also have development agencies, we also have various incubators who offer their services to design projects and they are very professionally done. However, there is a problem of pre-financing, as none of these or very few ordinary people who have already borrowed credit, forming an OPG of these volumes, thus buying machinery, buying land, raising farms, plastics, plantations, etc. They're all over-indebted. And they de facto don't have a basic condition for the realisation of this component, they can't finance, pre-finance that project so that they can actually withdraw funds from the IPARD. It's simplified like that, I wish it wasn't like that. It's happening in my environment. So we here if we want to achieve the right effect that rural development pleases an ordinary man, not large systems that have a capital accumulation enough to pre-finance, and then we just use this benefit, so we have to change things. We think we need to think about forming some kind of funding fund for this thing. So, the state has to make this further effort if it wants to make an effective use of the rural development component, it has to form a fund like some other countries in our environment did where this first phase will be co-financed, and then the return of those funds to that fund is expected of this component. And it's just one more rhetorical question, if this component can't be used by us from Slavonia and Baranja where it's relatively arranged, where there's some social standard at a higher level than it is in the PPDS areas, then how do we expect this component to be used by people who still don't have elemental things to live in, and at the same time, that agriculture is their only form of existence and the only way to survive. So what I said was in good interest. If suggestions are acceptable for future times and the system is arranged in a way that is more efficient, I am satisfied. Anyway, we'll accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53286	Thank you. An individual debate. Madam representative Nadica Jelash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53287	Thank you very much, Your Honor. State secretaries, directors, colleagues and colleagues. So what I think is the greatest value of these reports that we receive half-yearly, so reports on the use of pre-accession aid programmes is that they are one really good indicator of how far we have been able to fit in Croatia to use pre-accession European Union funds, or how much we have strengthened our absorption capacity to withdraw European funds because this whole pre-accession process is actually preparing for the use of significantly larger financial resources that will be available to us when we are a full member of the European Union. In my view, the particularly useful experience for the future use of cohesion and structural funds is precisely the IPA programme because its implementation required the establishment of the most complex system and implementation and control so far. Given that the agreement has been completed in the meantime, as well as the payment of the first generation of pre-accession programmes, so CARDS, PHARE and SAPARD, we are free to say that we already have very specific experiences. With CARDS and PHARE, they're better, and with SAPARD, they're actually pretty bad because of the low percentage. So we know that it's used about 62%. Even the European Commission has warned the Croatian government a while ago about the poor use of SAPARD, as well as IPARD. The truth is, this report shows that in Croatia we have some local and regional environments that have already been trained quite well, if I may say so, or have been stalking money withdrawals from European funds. I am personally pleased to have the opportunity to point out that one of these environments and the Međimurje County, which has shown the greatest efficiency in using the SAPARD funds, where, as I said earlier, Croatia has actually received weak results. Of the 49 projects financed by SAPARD totalling 151m euros, 10 projects worth 17m euros relate to users from Međimurje County. But overall, such local environments and not only local but regional ones are still too little in Croatia. The European Union made it clear to us a few months ago that it is fully ready to welcome us into its membership in 2012. At that time, the European Commission adopted a financial package intended for Croatia for the first two years of its 3.5 billion-euro membership. So there's no confusion in public, it's a gross amount. Therefore, in order for Croatia to benefit from these funds, it has a certain obligation, hence the obligation to deposit in the European Union budget, which is approximately a billion and 250 million euros. In one word, the amount of our payment to the budget of the European Union depends on how much we will be able or how much money we will be able to withdraw from the European Union. Europe has therefore made its own, everything else is in Croatia, from when we will conclude negotiations to how much money we will be able to withdraw from the prepared package. So if we fail, the blame will be entirely on us. The presumption of withdrawing these funds is, on the one hand, quality projects, but on the other hand, I would really like to stress this, the untapped system of money distribution, so such a public administration that will convince the European Union that the funds will not be misused. And that is why it is true and effective, not just a declarative fight against corruption and organised crime, is actually the most important lever in attracting European money. And in this sense, as a kind of warning to Croatia, it could serve an example of Bulgaria, which the European Commission, although it was already a full member of the European Union at the time, blocked one huge amount of euros from cohesion funds precisely because Bulgaria failed to convince that it was truly fighting corruption. The rules for the use of European money, we have heard this on several occasions today, are very strict and we see from this report that any abuse established by any delegation of the European Union, whether the Central Agency for Finance and Negotiation, is strictly punishable in a way to end contracts and to seek the return of money. In this regard, it is extremely important to further develop the system of management of irregularities, said counterpart Buric Pejcinovic, in order to detect and report irregularities and fraud to the European Commission's general administrations and OLAF as well. Of course, the most effective prevention for irregularities is an education that is organised precisely under the system of management of irregularities. However, what I want to say is that education at this point covers only employees of those institutions involved in the pre-accession European Union programmes. Unfortunately, local and regional self-government is not involved. And therefore local level is the weakest link in project preparation, but not only because of lack of educated personnel, but because of another major problem, which is that they do not have the necessary financial resources. As we know, most of the projects are implemented in a way that, in a certain percentage or whole, such as the IPARD case, finances the project with the investors' own resources, and after the end of the project, the funds are in the right percentage to refund the investor from the pre-accession fund. Therefore, I would like to stress this to the local self-government units that should be helped and provided by insurance of professional transport and by providing financial resources either through the budget or directly from banks. And that's exactly what I think it's done too little, and at the same time it's lost a lot of valuable time and if we know that time is money, and that's for sure, then we know that it's actually lost a lot of money in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53288	Thank you. Two corrections, one replica. The first is Mrs. Nevenka Marinovic's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53289	Vice President, here I am correcting my colleague Jelash's incorrect claim that the Međimurje County was most effective in the use of SAPARD's funds. That's incorrect. Zadar County has used its colleagues twice as much funds as Međimurska. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53290	And Mrs. Representative Marija Buric Pejcinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53291	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'd do if there were no education at regional and local level. In fact, this education has existed for many years. I personally took part in this myself, and I can especially point out and I think it's important that you look inside these people's counties. As part of the Danish project, a project has been done for many years... So training those who will train others at that level. [[The speaker speaks English, not understood.]] Look at what these people are doing right now and whether what they had to do with this project has continued to do with education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53292	Replica, Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53293	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's nice to hear from my colleague Jelash when he praises certain counties with successes they've had through regional agencies. But I must say again, I come from a completely different county of Požega-Slavon County, which in the last three years, here's what's happened, but now it's started during the past power of Vallis Aureu, the county development agency, and after three years, it's been liquidated over the end of the last year. We are a specific county by some other things, so here is the development agency that he imposed on local self-government units of the town of Požega during the SDP government as one extraordinary thing. Of course, we accepted that. No concrete project came from this regional development agency, to experience liquidation after three years, and here we are now re-establishing a development agency and trying to start over. Of course you're talking about helping local and regional self-government units. This County Development Agency has swallowed hundreds of thousands of kunas of the state budget for both the equipment and the vehicles and the salaries of employees at the Development Agency, and what is unfortunately the benefit of it is seen by the degree of development of our county, as well as by the fate of the County Development Agency Vallis Aurea, which has experienced total failure and liquidation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53294	Replication response, Madam Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53295	Well, I'm sorry you have such a bad experience with your Development Agency, but I'm sure it's not because of how you say what she was when she was founded by the SDP. We, regardless of political orientation, have a successful development agency in Međimurje County.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53296	Thank you. Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53297	Here I'd like to get involved in this debate and contribute a little bit to this atmosphere. In any case, I am pleased, because the first generation of funds has spent more than 90% of the funds achieved, and that's the fact, and that's what this review is saying to us. So, she was very successful, and unfortunately, in public, there are sometimes false perceptions and incorrect information that funds are being used poorly, which is what your report is completely defusing today. The fact is that we talked about it on the boards that the SAPARD is slightly worse realized for over 60% of the resources, but we have talked about the reasons and heard about it several times this morning, and we ourselves know that the structure of Croatian agriculture is what it is, that small agricultural economies, that it is a complicated procedure, that sometimes there are problems with the book and that the depletion of possessions is actually a fundamental problem which may have led to something worse realized these funds. The fact is that we said that it might not be bad that our farmers through this SAPARD and slowly learned how to use larger funds in the future, so maybe it's not too bad that there were some obstacles. The fact is that the basic criterion is a well-prepared project and that sometimes we are not really well teamed even at County level. The county development agencies are crucial and should be well teamed, but there is a situation in the field where these development agencies really served for so-called. ... personnel or coalition partners are not well trained enough, nor are they up to the tasks that await us, so I believe that this will change in the meantime and not have much to do with politics, but that experts in the county development agencies will be employed in the future. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact that not everything can be expected from the state level needs to be included at all levels and it is necessary for municipalities and cities, especially cities that have gained the status of large cities to team their employees and to undergo education. There may have been a little misunderstanding here, because you wrote in this report that education programs will eventually be available to others outside the state administration. You may have mispronounced yourself, if I understood correctly, because as we heard here this morning, education has long been available to local administration employees of cities, municipalities and counties. So I think maybe we should explain it later. I have here a material from the European Commission delegation in Croatia, where they gave 15 examples of good practice projects that took place in Croatia by mid-2009. The fact is that it is now because there have been speeches here that there are no projects and, 580 ongoing projects in Croatia funded by the European Union. That shouldn't interfere with your mind. The fact is that 150m euros are available annually and a billion and 600m euros a year will be available from 2014. So 10 times more than it is right now and that's what needs to be shared with the Croatian public, and especially with people on the ground, to be aware of what's waiting for us there. So this envelope, which in the first year of the billion and then in 2013, is two billion, and of course it is waiting and it does not mean that we will get it unless we are ready with the projects and I have the knowledge that there are good preparations on the ground, especially by the county and the mayors, and that they are aware of the needs of good preparation of the project, but it is not just about preparation, it is about strict monitoring, it is about the application process, it is about the selection process and at the end of the project. So far, as far as my information is concerned, cross-border projects have been best used in the counties, and especially in the counties that are in good relations with neighbouring countries, and I therefore think that this is one of the good examples that should be highlighted here. As for the construction of institutions that you were talking about in the introduction and about a large number of experts, you said that about a thousand people currently in Croatia were educated, it was heard that there was much more to be educated, but we also know that there is a ban on employment by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but there is no ban in this segment, which is also important to stress that there is openness that new young people are educated for this area. As for the consulting companies we talked about, there were bad examples on the ground, the fact is that the market needs to be regulated, but it also takes these consulting companies to, because we said we couldn't expect all of them from the state, so it should be accounted for in some way. Co-financing is a problem, we are all aware of it, so that the alliangle part that should be given to the counties, or cities, should be provided in the budget, and now the question is whether all counties can provide it with their own resources or will need the assistance of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the state budget. I want to say something else here. In all the committees I've been in, and whose reports I've read, we've all been unanimous with, and this morning we've heard some clubs say they won't support the reports. Of course you have the right to do so, but so far we've had some consensus about these European projects and all the committees, I've just looked at it well, all those present have always been unanimous, and this morning something we disagree on, but of course it's your right, I think you'll probably change your mind on the next report. As for this envelope one more time. What has been done is a strategy of institutional development and capacity-building, it is given to show the current situation, etc., but in this, this draft strategic reference framework that you are talking about for the period 2012 to 2013 I believe that everyone should be involved or through their city councils, the county councils, because this is the moment when those projects that we will be discussing later will be included, there are no new projects later, so it is necessary to apply projects at the level of the county and bring this general strategy from which other projects will be financed later. Here, I want to support this report today, and I think we've done well so far, but caution is never enough and therefore it is necessary to strengthen communication towards local administration and self-government units, but also towards the academic community, as well as the business sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53298	Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53299	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuica, you've noticed one thing. On boards, one attitude, and here today in the debate, other attitudes. The only reason for that is the public, the presence of a TV camera now, not the presence on boards. The parent board for this report is the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and those who have commented here negatively today and pleaded not to support this report, unanimously supported the report on the parent board. The conclusions were, I will read, expressed satisfaction with the high percentage of the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union, as Croatia used more than 90% of the available funds during the first generation. The efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the restoring ministries aimed at the organisation, education and development of the programme have been praised. But you know, one of the most aggressive advocates here, one of the most aggressive in the debates when cameras show doesn't come to committees at all, because there isn't one, and those on boards say one thing, come here to say another, just because they think it's going to work out for the public, and it doesn't match the expert opinions that prevail on committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53300	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53301	Well, Mr. Maric, you just confirmed what I noticed. The fact is that in my humble opinion politics is in action, the fact is that they want to show different attitudes, which are fundamentally different, if we have agreed on one question, we have had a consensus that was a question of accession to the European Union and obviously want to achieve some points but I do not believe, we have no reason, I believe that we have most, we have no reason to convince you, to another report you will probably be all for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53302	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. A place unknown and a place to live. He's losing his word. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53303	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. For me, the key question in this debate is whether we have used pre-accession funds in the best possible way, and for the purpose of strengthening human and institutional capacities so that we can adequately use structural funds when we enter Europe. So that's a key question for me, is it the best way to use pre-accession funds, or funds? And my humble opinion is that we weren't the most successful at it. So the answer is no. Now, there are a lot of reasons that contribute to the claim that Croatia will simply not be able to take advantage of all that will be offered through European funds, or what will be available to us in the first 2 years of its membership. In addition to this finding, I would say the results of the previous use of pre-accession European funds as well as the report ahead. I think I agree with my colleague Mondekar, that the report is much better than some of the previous ones, but unfortunately it doesn't talk about all the problems our administration faces, and even less about the reasons why things don't go the best way. And I believe that the report is not detailed or objective to the extent that it should be. And that we have problems, that things are not going in the best direction and that the data that comes to our assembly benches on the use of funds from pre-accession funds in some way, don't blame me on that expression, hair it, talks and the EU ambassador to Croatia in interviews that he recently gave to different media. He asked what he thought about our problem of using European funds said, "There is still a big challenge ahead of you." I think he just wanted to be very, very polite. And he says, "When you become a member of the fund's quantity, it will increase and therefore it is necessary to have the infrastructure you do not currently have. Good projects should be prepared now because if this does not happen, Croatia will not benefit enough from these funds. You're not ready enough yet, but I've talked to several members of the government about it." So these are the words of the EU ambassador to Croatia. That we are not qualified for the full use of European money also shows data on the usability of pre-accession funds such as the SAPHARD case, which we have used only slightly less, or slightly more than 48%, according to the European Commission's data. And then it's justified to say that if we weren't last year, or we couldn't make 150 million euros available to us, we'd be able to withdraw 10 times as much money in 2012. I think this is about the big problems of the head of the Agriculture Payment Agency, or the IPARD Agency. As far as I know, this gentleman doesn't speak English, which I think is completely unacceptable. Finally, the devastating fact is that users of the European funds from Croatia had to pay back at least 700 thousand kuna last year because the money was not, the money they received was not used in accordance with the rules. I say at least 700 thousand kuna, because there's a process under way to bring back as many as a million and 140 thousand kunas. What are the reasons for the return of those funds, or would I say about the loss of money? Most of the time it was insufficient documentation, I think it's a good thing the report was talking about it. Insufficient documentation and non-compliance with the provisions of the contract, the reasons are numerous and different, but they are not in any way encouraging. I'd say they're not encouraging. We heard from colleague Ingrid Marinovic that in the SAPhard 3 farm fund, the cases ended even with criminal charges and that cases were referred to the competent state attorney's office. So I think it's justified to ask the question of who's responsible for the failures that happened? The government is in charge of preparing the biggest projects, and smaller projects are in the jurisdiction of individual ministries and public enterprises, and it is more than clear that we lack quality personnel. I thought we didn't have enough personnel, but you say we do. So I wonder what the quality of these personnel working on it is? You're spinning your head, but let me also express in this debate what I really think and what I'm thinking about. But what now? We are now in a situation where I would say we are adapting the system quickly in 2012 so that we can make the most of the opportunities of European funds. And I think that there is an objectively serious danger in this haste to make a lot of mistakes, and one that we have already made in my opinion is the Regional Development Act that we have brought about by the pressure of the EU. It is conceived in terms of both project and organisational structures on an existing model of territorial structure that we are not actually satisfied with. One we're not happy with and who we'll change eventually. Until that happens, I think there's a danger of crawling centralised, which is now happening through the development of operational programmes and through the fact that big projects are planning and deciding about large public enterprises. We allowed ourselves to be introduced through NUTS2 regions that we called statistical regions when we introduced them to impose the parameters of determining the degree of development that were insufficiently developed. I'm saying that because they don't see specific needs and different environments and they're basically based on the model of the slowest car. So the development is going as fast as it can take the slowest car. I think there is a dramatic disorganization and ineffectiveness of the ministry and the Regional Development Agency. Just look at the agency's website, I think you'll understand. We don't actually have any model of financial and organisational support in the phase of preparing projects that should be monitored by banks. Here, colleagues and colleagues, I think there's a lot of problems and I'm really sorry why we can't at least talk about them here in a transparent way. One of the current very big problems have counties. I don't know if you're aware of that. Countys have set out strategies under the Regional Development Act. But these strategies must be consistent with the development documents, i.e. strategic national documents. And do we have those documents? We don't have them. And why don't we have them? They're not finished. We just couldn't make them. And then the question arises how to launch county development strategies without a familiar direction for the development of the Republic of Croatia, and in fact only this can enable timely preparation and increased use of funds from the available European Union funds. And just a little bit more. The competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia implementing the programming and drawing up of those operational programmes from the strategic frameworks do not have the necessary coordination, nor do they respect regional and local development priorities. And also regional and local levels are not familiar with the strategic objectives, priorities and measures the national level plans for the upcoming period through those documents. So I think it's something that the government really should take into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53304	Thank you. Three corrections, one replica. First correction by Ms. Representative Marija Buric-Pejčnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53305	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's two corrections. The first refers to an incorrect finding that the data is haired. In this large document, I did not see it, and I did not understand that it was an essay on efficiency, but it was a series of objective and very precise data that can be checked in the European Commission or in a delegation if you do not believe. And another information related to the NUC2 region that we have misdetermined. Namely, for the NUC2 region and for each such region, it is better, conditionally said, because it will be able to use more funds if it has, therefore, as much spectrum as possible. So it's not misdetermined if you have to go on the weakest wagon, because it means that the whole region will be able to benefit from that, that a wider spectrum of measures can be used than it's set to a higher level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53306	Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53307	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So also two incorrect allegations from a colleague who said the head of the Agricultural Payments Agency doesn't speak English. First, he is not the boss, or he is not a gentleman, but Mrs Anica Lucević, who is a great English language person, participated in the negotiations, has great experience and in the cost of national support. And you should know that the paying agency is the fastest and shortest time of all the countries that have joined the European Union and has received accreditation and national and accreditation from the European Commission. And secondly, when you talk about data-cutting if any of these documents that we are talking about can't be haired and is under the European Commission's double increase, then it's just a report on the use of pre-accession funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53308	Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53309	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. According to counterpart Jerkovic, we are preparing institutions for the use of structural funds quickly. That's not true. Here among us is one of the state secretaries from the European Integration Ministry, Marija Buric-Pejcinović, who started preparing institutions for the use of pre-accession funds six and seven years ago with a great team. The results of this good preparation and activity you see today in this report and if you say that it is not the full use of European funds, it is likely that 99% would not be complete again, so please say here is not the full use of the funds. But we can express our satisfaction with this high percentage, with the institutional support that we have and at the level of the state of resolution ministries of all institutions that are descending across the counties that were willing to do so. Again, there is my black Požeko-Slavonska, which during three years has not managed to train one development agency to the only county in Croatia, up to the level of cities and municipalities that have a whole range of support institutions, entrepreneurship centres in city administrations and municipal administrations of educated people who know... projects and successfully use pre-accession funds already today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53310	Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53311	Thank you very much. My colleague Jerkovic, in your debate, you were looking for ways how critically you said that Croatia did not make the best use of pre-accession programmes. And as proof of that, you have said that there is still a great challenge ahead of us. There is no activity that can be done better, there is no activity that cannot be improved permanently, there is no situation that is not also challenging. But you're intelligently trying to look for carefully chosen words, how to find a way to criticize something that's objectively not for criticism. But it should be said that there is no man who can't find a grudge, there is no phenomenon that contains no difficulty in himself. But generally speaking of the use of pre-accession programmes has a positive sign, the use of pre-accession programmes has huge progress and really does not deserve criticism but only praise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53312	Replica reply, Ms. Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53313	Thank you very much. I agree with my colleague Maric that he has a positive omen, but I don't agree when you say he doesn't deserve criticism. I think this is exactly where we have to openly discuss all the problems we're facing. We don't get along very often, actually it's more of a rule than an exception. I think we absolutely need to talk openly about everything that's not good, because if we don't discuss what's wrong or it all comes down to you convincing us that roses are flowering, and we assure you that things aren't right, I don't know what's the use of that. It must be clear to us that the money from the European funds will not be donated to us, that it will not be given to us, that I have to earn it in some way, that we must earn it in a way that we will prepare well institutionally, humanely, projectally. I'm just asking if we're on the right track and did we do everything we needed to do in that sense? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53314	Mr. Representative Daniel Mondekar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53315	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's another short, little, less than 10 minutes each. I will start by saying that the European Union, indeed the issue of the European Union, is, that is, here in the Parliament, there is a compromise between political parties that this is really our goal. But that's not the goal of the targets, regardless of the victims, and it's not the goal of the goals when, for example, it's the goal. They hide bad things. In 2007, we had a blockade of the European Union's funds, which then, the beloved HDZ leader Ivo Sanader said was nothing. First he even told us that we were lying about it, then when he admitted it somehow went under the carpet. Then we were against that report, we weren't in, we were against that report because the report hid everything about the problems we had. So there's a difference about what the consensus is. Now, as far as I'm concerned, there are some issues we want to talk about in a short while about us from the SDP club. So, agriculture. It's really about the big money, the hardest money, we absolutely agree with that, and no one expects that 100% of us will pull it all out and take advantage of it. We know that there's a Agricultural Fund, we know it's subsidies, but in order for our farmer to get money he really has to produce high quality standards in order to even make his product, for example. to go to the European market. Watch Czech Republic. The Czech Republic, which educates peasants, has given annual education, helped to reach a certain standard financially, still in the first year of membership one 500 of the medium-sized food producers put the key in the lock because they failed to manage the European market. You know as well as I do that some farmers in the Republic of Croatia will say no, I want state incentives, I don't want anything else. That system probably won't last much longer, but that's how it's gonna be. But no one prevents the Republic of Croatia from doing its best to give what it can, for education, for co-financing, for preparations for the market. Then it's up to them to do the job. But no one's stopping us from creating a good system on our part. The second thing, with the community programme, we are talking about big projects that are looking for European networking, which are financially quite difficult, which even insist on a lot of co-financing. When we watched this last CIP that was in ICT measure for digital archives 50% co-financing. On a project of 4 million euros, you see how much the partners in the consortium must co-finance. What happens to our Croatian colleges or companies with good ideas? They don't have money, they can't get money from the state, they give ideas to strangers in their consortium. It's the foreigners who get the money and these give them the idea and de facto then get the crumbs. Strangers of a good project, ages, and that know how, belong to us little, little crumbs. That's the biggest problem with community programs. Secondly, when I said that we used to throw around a little bit with the money, so let's just remember here project i.e. Public Health Fund. Well, we need to think proactively about what we need and what we can go to the competition right now. So then we talked that for public health fund public health we need projects to be... means anchored to the results of the FP, results, means the femil of the programme from the topic of health. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we wondered if this had been prepared, if we had seen any of the results of the previous, Croatian and European experience to see what we would do. And now we've paid that membership orderly, paid from the IPA, paid from the budget and waited for what? It's probably Godot on that. So we also need proactive thinking which community programs we will be using at the moment. As for staff and consultants, so when I talked about consultants, I did not talk about the capacity of units of local self-government, but I talked about private companies that walk in Croatia and sell, falsely selling primarily their services. So I met a couple of consulting houses that sell their services, when they get a contract, then they're looking for someone to subscribe, just to get him to do the job because they don't know how to do the job. I gained my personal experience long before Croatia even started using community programmes. Through Denmark, a Danish Youth Forum, a European Youth Forum and an organisation of the European Education Network, I have gained experience from the JAF programme because I worked on it, and from FP 6, I still don't call myself a consultant. And you in Croatia today still have colleagues and colleagues to complete a two-day IPARD education and to be called IPARD consultants. And now think about asking us not to know Professor Hebrang to stand here in front of us and tell us a little bit about cardio surgery in two days and then tell us that we're doctors after two days. But that's what happens with us. Two-day IPARD education and we have IPARD consultants. Well, that's not true, that doesn't suit reality. This will cause major problems and therefore we think that a framework must be created in which this consulting sector will then operate. As for employment, so I'm going to repeat what I said and on behalf of the club, it's not a problem in the agencies where the malt people are not busy working from morning till night, it's a bloody job, it's a hard job. A lot of people do it for a very small salary and do it well. But yes, there are differences between agencies and agencies. There's a lot of work where it's a little more casual. And employment on the EU is in some cities and municipalities, i.e. It primarily uses cities for all kinds of things. So one city that has already been mentioned here, that I don't mention it again, has an EU project office, two or three people are employed in it, will employ another seven in the last year. Now, none of them are working there, but employment has been used because of the EU to enter the local self-government unit system. Then once they write the Agriculture Office, one for the economy, one somewhere else, etc., etc. So that employment is used for everything and everything. And the third thing about personnel, I'm going to repeat what I've said three times now talking about this. We still need a system of rewarding people in the state administration who work hard, very hard, very high-quality because we're going to lose them and you know it well. When large funds come, big projects, when large consulting houses come to this market they will take people with experience and take them from the state institutions and the state will lose the best, they will have to take new ones, they will be educated again and they will be constantly at one level of mediocrity and... And you can't let that happen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we need to build a reward system. And finally, as far as our future is concerned, it can be bright and it doesn't have to be so much at the end of the light. As for the financial envelope and SDURF itself said that the most significant amounts will go for transport, for the environment, for regional competitiveness, for the development of human potential. The distribution will work according to strategic documents, operational means programmes are as far as I understand in the design, will go in line with the European Commission in this year and then colleagues and colleagues how much the sector will get depends on the preparation of the project in the sector. So, there's little time. It is necessary to prepare as concrete projects as possible, as best projects as possible. This is what we were talking about on behalf of the club and it is our opinion that we will not use the complete financial envelope, that it is very bad to walk around Croatia and call for three and a half billion euros of European money if it is quite clear that it will not be so. So, one more thing is important. It is necessary to monitor what is therefore happening in the European Union. One thing is Romania, one thing is Bulgaria, but the third thing is now Greece. Because of what the Greeks have done, because of what has happened in Greece, Europe will look slightly differently at some financial issues, the less the deficit will be viewed, the more the share of debt in GDP will be seen. And you saw what they said. They'll still go to a little more rigid mechanisms. Those countries where debt in GDP will grow too much will be punished in a way that will reduce their cohesion funds and that will likely happen. And that's what we should be careful not to get into a group of those countries. That rule will also apply as they have said in Brussels for the Mediterranean countries and for future members. Croatia is still far from it, but we should be careful not to come there. And now at the end of our proposal. What we think should be done to make us as a SDP club say the system is good. We believe that it is in some way necessary to introduce certificates for the consulting market in order to create just some framework. We believe that we need a generous fund, a valuable state fund for co-financing of projects, but in order not to finance everything right now, we need to create some kind of strategic framework to see what to co-finance especially for community programmes, that the state of some kind of plan, from some kind of document, comes from some needs of the state and says this is something that we will co-finance this project because it is the need of a state. The problem is that we don't have documents that tell us what we need in the academic community, in science, in innovation, etc. And the last thing we think should be introduced, so I've already said the employee reward system so we don't lose quality personnel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53316	Thank you. Four corrections, two replicas. The first is Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53317	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'll make sure you don't hang out in the air, pal. We have not reached a compromise on entering the European Union, but on consensus No, no. [[Intruder: I said consensus.]] You said compromise. Well, so you don't stay hanging in the air. It was a consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53318	Ms. Nevenka Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53319	Thank you. Here I am correcting the incorrect quote of a fellow Mondekar who said bad things are hiding in these reports. My colleague Mondekar I expected from you when you speak on behalf of the club and in this individual debate that the report completely with the attachments look at because you did not look at the annex V report, where you had a detailed description of the irregularities that have been reported, but also the measures taken to remove them. Because if you'd looked at that, you wouldn't have claimed to be hiding... [[You can't hear the phone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53320	Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53321	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So from the part of the presentation of fellow Mondekara, entrepreneurs and units of local self-government and all other candidates for the use of pre-accession funds are sentenced to the use of quasi consultant services. I must say, and you probably know for yourself that in Croatia there is a developed whole network of institutions that are educated, which have educated staff to write projects, to implement projects, and it is not necessary for units of local self-government and other candidates to use the services of those quasi consultants, although there are also quality companies, quality consultants on the market, who are successfully doing and preparing projects for local self-government units. And in the end, I'm surprised after all the hard and commendable training that you don't have at least the status of a consultant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53322	Mr. Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53323	So what's incorrect? Well, actually, for God's sake, my colleague Mondekar, there's a lot of it wrong. So tell one country that has withdrawn more money and funds from pre-accession funds from Croatia and why and on which you claim that we will not be able to withdraw funds in the next period when it is evident that we are preparing and that we will be able to withdraw the maltenes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53324	Replica Mr. Zdenko Franić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53325	Dear colleague Mondekaru, in your debate on an extremely good example, you have shown the importance of the interaction between agriculture and quality infrastructure. For quality agriculture we should have educated farmers, and this education can really only provide very well-educated and well-formed consulting companies. It should therefore take advantage of having functional infrastructure of quality, accreditation, normisation and measurement and go after the certification of consulting firms as well. Unfortunately, it seems that, in this attack on all government agencies, certain circles go so far as to think even if we go full circle back, so the accreditation agency goes back with normisation and measurement to the State Department for Standardization and Measurement. It would be a disaster because it would not be fulfilled in Article 73. Stabilisation and Association Agreements and would lead to, in danger of reopening the temporarily closed chapter – Free movement of goods, and would put the accreditation of the Croatian accreditation agency at risk by European accreditation. And I hope that kind of thinking is just a waste of speculation and that they don't have any truth in reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53326	Replica reply, distinguished representative Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53327	My dear colleague, when I was talking about stratification, I was just talking about what apparently HDZ colleagues are sitting on their ears or not realizing that those who are top-notch in this business are separated from those who are fake and who want to damage local self-government units like that letter. Right? There's been a letter to the local self-government units, or some kind of authority of yours, and they're being given money. It means they protect themselves from the bad. That's why it needs to be introduced. And when I was talking about hiding, I was talking about the report and in 2007, at 2008, I said it clearly, when HDZ hid the reports because our funds were blocked, and he didn't want to admit that the funds were blocked, because there were elections, so please listen to what I'm saying, if you don't want to do it already or to correct it, and not what's going on in your head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53328	And a replica, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53329	... In fact, our colleagues said that our farmers are used to running for funding from the state budget for domestic support and that we should actually do everything on this system to get them out of their way, i.e. to focus on European funds where there are more resources and where these candidates are clearly and more demanding and also to monitor the realisation of these funds. [[Specially enabled.]] We absolutely agree here. But this one, what happened. When there were peasant protests then comes to work that hypocritical policy of SDP where you jump on tractors, you come up for fire, you come down to pour oil on fire and where you say that support should be increased. I will remind you, we had a situation there at the end of last year that the Ministry of Agriculture abolished the Capital Investment Support Regulation, and that it was actually for the state budget, where those funds for capital support were reduced, but on the other hand, Croatia provided that national component for co-financing of projects, meaning that they would run in European Union funds. But instead of supporting it on your part, you're going to these peasant protests, so you're standing at quite other points of view. We also had the case that the HDSSB in Osijek-Baranja County, that 30 million kuna in the budget for this year reduced the funding for agriculture, and when the peasant protests were then climbing the tractors, bringing sausages and beer, and hoarding the peasants to go to Zagreb. Here's your village policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53330	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53331	So, my colleague, when I said about agricultural funds, I said what money it is, what it takes to make people ready for it, but that there will also be farmers who will not want European funds, they will not go to it, they will continue to seek state incentives. So that's the only thing I said. So it's going to be the ones who'll still think they're... I said in the next sentence that I felt that this kind of system is now a state incentive unsustainable, that it would have to change. [[You don't understand.]] That's all I said. As for the protest, as far as I understand it, the peasants were protesting because the state was a year and a few days behind on paying off those incentives, and for that, and I don't have your tractor, I really do, so.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53332	Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53333	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. So when we follow these reports on the use of pre-accession funds, we have to say anyway and praise and produce reports like this that are getting richer, there are more and more data in them, and I especially believe that Mrs. Secretary of State who appears here and presents them, as such really gives a lot of effort, and that is why I think that we can both do better and better to discuss this. It also means to see what's good, also to see what's not. What wasn't done exactly because of all these indicators we're getting here. As I believe we can and should value the use of these pre-accession funds. So precisely by the ratio of the allocations, the contracted funds, and what is most important is the use of those pre-accession funds. It's one set of questions that, based on which both these tables and all of this data we get here, we can talk and talk and talk relevantly. And the second question that I think and that comes out of this is that in some ways we say that and what greater and better quality contribution can be given to planning and implementing the programme so that the use of these pre-accession programmes can be better. These are the two questions that come from a normal and a lot of what and how we can and should say about it. In this regard, the use of CARDS and PHARE pre-accession programmes is certainly in a satisfactory amount, it is visible from these tables and it would certainly be even more interesting if they saw and analyzed the usefulness of these projects to the living areas where these funds were planned and placed. I think we can probably be satisfied through that part. The second question is the SAPHARD programme which, from what we see here, is not so high-quality, and when we go from those agreed 62% to 55% received and that at the end, below 50% of the users are being paid, the question is what and how and why it happened. With the ISPA programme, the situation was even weaker in these percentages, but they are saved by this footnote with two of these concluded contracts in February 2010 which is certainly looking forward and I believe that through this part and this realisation of this ISPA program will be much more quality. But this is all kind of a foreplay, foreplay of how we're going to use one and a half billion in 2012, or 2 billion in 2013. How ready we are for it or even a minimum of what we should give as a member through membership. It is evident that here, too, the money for the European Union, the EU has allocated these funds, yet it is up to us to earn the entry into Europe through our work, and the money that is scheduled to be withdrawn. When are we going to do this in agriculture is the issue of withdrawing those 680 million euros? Realisation of how and how should you go? Especially the part relating to the rural part because the issue of implementation of the strategy and the rural part programme, we unfortunately do not have enough, surely. The project that we should have far more than these funds can be used because it is the fact that many will fall off as is the case with these pre-accession funds. What happened to SAPHARD, which must be the basis for realisation and this part in agriculture? Of 49, 37 were realized, 12 were rejected. It means that the continuation of this programme through IPARD, IPA component 5, scheduled competition in January 2010 until March 5th. What's going on with that? The advance has been paid, 23 million have already been paid, and the question is, how are these projects related to these calls for tenders? We are aware that the criteria are sharper. There's been a lot of talk here about it already, but that's why we need to be even more prepared in the agencies right now. The agencies that were emerging, the quality of people I think in this part is one factor that certainly will increase the quality of people and well-paid people's success in these projects. When we look at the number of projects per county, let's say specifically in the SAPHARD program, we see that there were 10 realised in Međimurje County. However, it also does not have to be 10, as the colleague said, in Zadar, at 2 or 3 more funds were withdrawn. However, we also have a county where there is zero. Zero and realised and reported, like Virovitica-Podravska. And the question arises why are there so many differences between county and county in the use of these funds? So I think I'm coming to the other part now, and that's what I said, the question of people, people, agencies of consultants who need to work on such programs. Just these consulting services that need to be done, plans and programmes, I think that the issue and these payments of such services are also very discriminatory. If it takes a year or two to realize a program and one that enters that program that needs to wait for the realisation of those funds, I think that whoever makes such a programme can not immediately charge it for it, but for realisation. I think that in such areas, consultants and consulting services must be of quality, must take over, have an obligation to do so. Normally, the agency and the state as such are the most responsible and from all these examples, I believe that this report certainly shows good but bad things. And it is normal for us, as an opposition, to try to point out what still needs to be done, and to make it as high-quality as possible to realize these pre-accession, or structural funds that we will use, or ultimately to point out that what is not good to be fixed and to go even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53334	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53335	Thank you. My colleague, here, if I can pass on one experience to you from the field related to the users of SAPHARD, or those who wanted to use SAPHARD, which is why they gave up SAPHARD. The first reason is extremely extensive documentation required of potential users of the SAPHARD programme, and this is mainly about agricultural producers, about OPGs that are not ready for such documentation and preparation of the project. Furthermore, a rather complicated procedure. Furthermore, the uncertainty of use, the approval of funds for farmers and ultimately what is the most important financing of the entire project in advance. So, that farmers were not ready to finance the whole project in advance and wait for any resources from SAPHARD that are refunded according to the approved project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53336	Ms. Representative Nada Cavlović-Smiljanec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53337	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Otherwise, in its debate, it would refer primarily to SAPARD and IPARD programmes that are related to agricultural funds and units of local administrations and self-government, which have unfortunately not received anything so far. The reason is that we lost development and implementation of rural infrastructure in the SAPHAARD programme, and we haven't received it yet and the first competition that will last until 5 February 2010 was launched in early 2010. The main objective of SAPARD and IPARD is to prepare Croatian farmers for European agricultural funds and for European subsidies. I reiterate that the Republic of Croatia lost what units of local administration and self-government could get in SAPHARD, and what was not obtained in the IPARD is measure 3 which enables cities and municipalities to build municipal infrastructure. The fact is that local self-government and administration units are still not ready for them because they do not have financial resources. The SAPARD and IPARD programmes should have allowed our farmers to be competitive in Europe, which unfortunately, by using these funds, did not happen. So it turns out that this system has become its own purpose because to lift that system of states has invested 20 million euros and it has so much to gain back. That's what the statistics say because agricultural statistics have been in favour of the decline in project applications over the last four years. Namely, the data on the number of applications for the SAPHARD tender are as follows: in 2006, the number of applications was 51, 5 was approved; in 2007, the number of applications 46 was approved 26 of which 5 was cancelled; in 2008, the number of applications 23, approved 7, cancelled 4; by 21/04.2009 the number of applications was 19, approved 13, cancelled 3. One major illogicality can be read from this, namely, as EU programmes are increasingly implemented, the number of applications is also common. But here the number of applications falls which certainly speaks most of the work of the paying agency in agriculture, forestry and rural development, i.e.... the directorship for structural support in agriculture. At the same time the number of applications is increasing, the number of people or employees in charge of these programmes may be said. And what's the reason? As far as farmers are concerned, farmers certainly have ideas, land and expertise, but state aid is needed. It also happened with the IPARD programme where the last tender for farmers was registered only 37 people who are devastating and what the European Commission has warned. I would also like to look back at the work of employees in the SAPHARD suit that changed year after year but was always on average employed by about 70 people. I particularly stress that the number of employees this year has increased significantly, but has never been less than 15 people who have worked on the processing of projects or requests for payment. As an average of 70 people are working in the SAPHAARD programme, as it is taken into account that in 4 years they have received 139 applications in 4 tenders, which means that one or two applications are processed annually. We can say that there is no problem with employees that there are no reported processing projects, but I think the answer lies in a large number of issues that potential users have referred to that agency, as well as in the fact that the whole procedure is too complicated and untransparent. ... The fact is that the Republic of Croatia is intended for 25m euros under the SAPHARD programme. However, we see from the table as well as the text on page 6 of this report that from the start of using the program to 31. 12. In 2009, a total of 12.10m euros from SAPHARD's funds were paid, representing ten percent of the total allocations. As a measure, one investment in agricultural holdings was granted around €39.35 million, and two improvements in the processing and marketing of agricultural and fish products totalling HRK 111 million. From this data it is clear that the Republic of Croatia has not used much of the resources available, and I have cited the reasons that they are. We missed the opportunity to make Croatian farmers ready to join the European Union. And in conclusion, I can't help but look at the data attached to this report related to the SAPHAARD programme where the review of all agreed and paid projects by county means one to four from which it is apparent that Virovitica-Poravna County from which I come has zero kunas of investment, zero kuna amounts of support, zero kunas of paid support, which is truly devastating for one agricultural county. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53338	Thank you. Thank you, Madam Representative Nevenka Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53339	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, respected directors, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the conclusion of this June 2005 High House that we have a report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union for a period of 1. 7 to 31. 12. In 2009. Here's this report is comprehensive, transparent and high-quality, and I'd really like to commend it. It provides an overview of the implementation of the programme with specific reference to the means and conditions of implementation, means also the first generation of pre-accession assistance programmes, the state of the IPA programme of preparations for the use of EU funds, as well as fraud and irregularities in the process of using funds. In addition, the first generation agreement was concluded that implementation is ongoing, and the final report for each of the programmes will be drawn up for each of the programmes following the completion of the payment deadlines. Program analyses show the following. So the CARDS programme was community assistance in rebuilding, developing and stabilisation was an EU technical and financial assistance programme adopted at the end of 2000. Here I will stress that Zadar County has used both components of this programme, that it has also used technical and financial assistance in a very significant amount of over 7 million euros that we have invested in both infrastructure and demining, but one large part means more than 2 million kuna in the grand scheme. Some colleagues today in their presentation have forgotten what it means to use funds and how it is measured, so I will mention once again that it is measured by the percentage of agreed projects by their implementation and payments made within the scheduled deadlines. That's why the percentages, that's why we've had so many incorrect corrections of incorrect allegations today because they haven't come from the definition of the use of funds. So here's what I'm going to say is that some of the CARDS programs have been used over 97%. From the PHARE 2005 programme, I will only highlight the project approved in the area of the county from which I come from, and this is Zadar County is a user of the PHARE 2005 programme, which was used by the city of Benkovac for 630 thousand euros, which pulled for infrastructure or for the expansion of infrastructure in the business zone of the Shopot. From the PHARE programme in 2006, I would single out three projects one used the Municipality of Gračac, and the other Zadar County one set of scientific statistics that makes up a picture of the health of the Zadar region. And another very important piece of information that I want to highlight here because it is an interesting model of funding, means the European Commission's pooled funds for the United Nations Development Programme and project partners, and the total value of this project is somewhere around 200,000 euros. Here's SAPARD today we've heard a lot of things, I'll remind you that this programme provides 25 million euros, that 49 projects have been agreed in over 150 million kuna and that almost 24% of these funds were used by entities for the Zadar County areas, which are Sirena, the Little Siran from Kolan, Paška Siran d.d. Pag and Ostrea who used the equipment to process fish. These projects are already making the agricultural sector of Zadar County more efficient and more competitive, many jobs have been opened and the quality of life of the population in the rural area of our county is improving, meaning both in Pag and in Pag and in Stankovci, Gracac and Benkovac. As far as the IPA programme is concerned, the aim of this was to prepare for cohesion and structural funds but regardless of the difficulties we had at first because the criteria which were quite strict, very quickly met and Croatian institutions were given permission to work all in the means of the IPA programme. However, I would like to point out here, and what the secretary of state in its opening statement specifically pointed out, and we did not have much in the debates dealing with this, from the preparatory activities for the use of EU funds. So, I would like to point out that a certain institutional framework for the implementation of cohesion and structural funds, which are covered by institutions that have received from IPA programmes, has been developed a strategy of institutional development and capacity building, but also an organisational development strategy for each institution, that overall education programmes from all areas and preparation and implementation and supervision and control have been developed. I will remind you colleagues that the European Commission has also proposed a financial envelope for the Republic of Croatia of 1.5 billion euros for 2012 and 2 billion for 2013. Regardless of the fear of many colleagues here in the Parliament, I believe we will make full use of this. However, the roof document for the use of the Structural and Cohesion Funds for the period 2012 and 2013 is the National Strategic Reference Framework, which contains four key operational programmes, which are the environment, energy, transport and basic infrastructure, human resources development, regional competitiveness, strengthening and re-establishing public administrations that cover all portfolios. Negotiations are under way, this report pointed out in particular, on the draft strategic reference framework for 2012 and 2013, but also on certain operational programmes. A new operational programme and the National Strategic Reference Framework will apply for the post-2013 period. And now here I see a space to include all those who are interested and who want to participate in this. That is why I would particularly like to highlight two things, which is that the National Strategic Reference Framework sets out the development priorities of the Republic of Croatia, while the Operational Programme contains measures to implement them. The national development priorities contained in this National Strategic Reference Framework should be based on the priorities identified by the region and sector strategic document. And now they come up here to express how many individual regions, or certain counties, have put forth efforts and work to make their strategies, because the European Commission has taught us to plan from both the bottom and the middle since 2000, so that's why we've been working on those deadlines. So here comes the quality of these regional operational programmes and their compliance with the National Strategic Projects, as well as the projects of the overall development of units of local and regional self-government. Given the number of institutions at national level implemented by the European Union programmes, as well as the programming of the use of funds for the future period, I believe that there is room for better and inter-ministral coordination, but also for the involvement of representatives of regional and local levels and civil society and the economy, means both public and private sectors. Partnership and co-operation is the basis for making planning documents. These are the first lessons of the European Union, but here I point out that the competence of the partners should be at a higher level. And one more thing I want to warn or suggest, and that's the problem when it comes to grand schemes or grants, and that's for the non-profit sector. Over the last few years, we've had a lot of competitions involving county, local self-government units and civil society. Competitions were carried out by various authorities of the ministry, but a major problem was observed after the completion of the competition, so the applications were rejected, of course, by the lack of money, not by the quality of the projects that I hold very well. And after that, no information or education of failed apps is carried out. I believe that this would be good as part of this whole education, means to carry out the education of failed apps for reasons to teach users where they were wrong, but also to use those projects that are perfectly well prepared for one of the lines of European funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53340	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have five more registered on this agenda item, so allow me now to suspend the hearing temporarily in order to put one item on the agenda that I announced this morning. We continue, we have five more debates on this agenda point. First up, sir. First up, Mr. Tonino Picula. Please! We continue with the agenda item of the Access Funds report. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53342	Mr. President, speaking of funds, I have a feeling that fellow MPs have also realized that the time fund has expired on this point. But if your decision is to continue anyway, then here's let one add of course to this agenda point. Well, first of all, each of us who spoke on the subject today has found one undeniable fact, which is that pre-accession funds play a really crucial role in adapting candidate countries to full membership in the European Union. It's, of course, in preparation. The beneficiary countries for the absorption of funds from structural and cohesion funds. Of course, one of the most important issues is the level of success in the use of pre-accession funds, i.e. as we have heard today in many cases the problem of insufficient use of funds. It has been noted that those colleagues who pointed out positive examples of the way Croatia uses this money have also seen a lot of shortcomings in the use of the mechanism. I think the Croatian Parliament is a place where we must talk not only about positive experiences, but first of all about what we have seen as an insufficient way of using money. And that it is very serious money and very serious money and the very serious mechanism of the European Union is also talking about one simple piece of information, for example that cohesion policy has taken a very important place in the European Union budget for the period 2007 to 2013. Here, as many as 35% of the European Union budget is allocated to the very funds applied by the Republic of Croatia, i.e. for those who love absolute figures, it is 308 billion out of the total of 864 billion euros that the European Union fund is. Of course, different countries use the resources available to them differently. In any case, older members are far more successful in withdrawing money than in the case of new members of the European Union. However, when we talk about new members, there are two that are particularly isolated, which is Hungary which uses as much as 63% of these funds. But also our first Western neighbour, Slovenia, is also very successful in withdrawing these funds. She used them at 60%. However, if I were to place the average in the use of the European Union funds here, it would be about 50%. In the first two years of EU membership, Croatia could receive around 2 billion and 200 million euros from the funds. But will we succeed in withdrawing that money depends first on us. In order to make better use of the money, it is necessary to meet three preconditions. We must choose the strategic areas in which we intend to invest. We have to have well-prepared projects that have been speaking all morning, and we have to do something where we are really weak, which is to strengthen the administrative capacity to implement all these projects. Through this famous IPA, an instrument that received no money from 2007 to 2009, almost half a billion euros for environmental, transport protection projects, regional competitiveness of human resources. However, as a member of the European Union, we need to get 20 times as much support as we get through the IPA instrument, but of course this requires additional work and we will have to activate additional resources. What needs to be done. First of all, establish adequate structures for the management and control of financial flows from the European Union budget. It will be necessary and in my opinion it is crucial that well-trained people manage funds. Croatia will therefore have to increase administrative capacity as a whole, including increasing human resources and training. Here, on several occasions, there have been words about something that I particularly hold important, which is that in the light of accession to the Union, the current division of our country's territorial municipalities, cities and counties is a certain obstacle to the use of funds from pre-accession European Union funds. Further problems arise from the absence of adequate regional policy, consistent development strategies, and the non-connection of the relevant institutional bodies. Notary is the fact, they can testify from personal experience that units of local and regional self-government are facing a lack of funds to finance capital and infrastructure projects. As most of the European Union's access funds are irrevocable, the possibility of local self-government units to benefit from applications is of course opened up, but there are also serious problems to come up with this money. Lower-level leaders mainly stress that the problem is not on them or at least not on them, but in the government and ministries. The main problem is the SAPHAARD and IPARD funds, where the government primarily benefits from the conditions. There's a small use, which was said and that level certainly must be raised. I would like to point out here an example of non-recovery, above all, by the executive government, which should certainly be mentioned and refers to one of our dimensions of development that immediately limits us seriously. It's demining. When certain associations wanted to apply for the withdrawal of funds intended for demining, they received the reply that this was not possible because the IPA strategic programme did not highlight demining as a priority. In my opinion, this is an example of the unserious understanding of the really serious strategic documents that have been accessed on the surface, and so the government forgot to place demining as a priority in the preparation of strategic documents and Croatia was not on the list. An ex post application was required, which subsequently included us in the demining programme, which, of course, created the necessary preconditions to withdraw money. This report, which we are talking about here, particularly highlights the fact that a paying agency has been established in agriculture, fisheries and rural development, and the recruitment of employees is under way. I would say colleagues and colleagues that the emphasis on the establishment of this agency is not very rational, given the criticism followed by its short-term work. And what's this about? Recently, he made public what diplomats say non paper, in which individuals from the negotiating teams show their concern that Croatia is unable to withdraw funds from EU funds, so he will pay more into the budget every year than he will get from it, especially for the implementation of agricultural policy. The document argues that Croatia is unable to withdraw the funds granted to it during the European Union budget period for 2012 and 2013. At the same time, I will have to pay funds to the European Union budget, with the worst going right through the agrarian. This is best seen by the statistics of using SAPHARD, from which Croatia pulled about 12 million euros out of projected 25m euros last year. However, it is argued in this non-paper that the most critical situation is related to the failure to resolve the structure and functioning of the Payment Agency, which is responsible for payments in agriculture, fisheries and rural development and for keeping the register of beneficiaries of the budget. In fact, the Government Agency for Agricultural Payments established for the withdrawal of European Union funds to Croatia spends far more money than it provides agriculture and it is less or less than a hundred million kunas. The data on the withdrawal of the European Union's funds are even more devastating when compared to other transition countries, we are really just something better than Bulgaria and Romania, who, as we heard, had one delay in withdrawing those funds, because Brussels has seriously accused them of corruption. And at the very end, let me just say that Croatia is facing the problem of incomplete use of funds and the fluctuation of administrative staff, especially in the central funding and negotiation unit, which also caused the suspension of the PHARE programme for 2006. Although Croatia needs to say the current uses of 5 pre-accession aid programmes, more than any country in the pre-accession process, which is probably another reason why we are administratively undercut in view of the ambition to make big money and withdraw. Finally, here is the importance of exploiting pre-accession funds, perhaps most vividly described by a German consultant and there have been many speeches about consultants here, it is about the German Jan Droge who said that the CARDS Fund was like a menu in a restaurant, the IPA fund is more similar to the Swedish table, while in the structural funds that Croatia will have access to when it enters the European Union each country will be its own cook. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53343	Thank you very much, colleague Picula. The debate followed by Honorable counterpart Davor Bernardic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53344	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Here's one reason why we don't accept this report is because it lacks a few key things. This is the possibility of how much funds we could get out of pre-accession funds, we only have data on how much of the signed projects were agreed, which is to say, at the very least, the reduction of the report, i.e. the deception of the public. Because if you're saying that you're out of the money you've agreed to come, you've arranged 95%, then you're asking what's going on with this 5%, weren't you incapable of all the money you've secured to deal on? So that's the key problem with this report and one of the reasons why we don't support it is because that item is missing. Also, when it comes to projects that have not had a brighter experience, I will not say the future, but a brighter execution like the SAPHAARD project, then it should be said that there are direct subsidies projects, or incentives from the Ministry of Agriculture itself, which are easier to come by, no complicated documentation has to be completed, and then people have decided to use the direct funds of the budget of the state budget, and not to use the potentials they can use from pre-accession funds. And here we de facto turned ourselves into stepmoms because we didn't use the means that were provided to us. The condition to use these funds is that you had to, for example, use it. 50% of these assets are obtained from units of local self-government, i.e. from the state budget. And that is the main reason why it is easier to obtain direct subsidies, and why it is harder to obtain EU pre-accession funds, and it has not been done much. What I will pay particular attention to are community programs. In the Community programme, these are programmes primarily MP7 and CIT which are the largest funds needed to include our entrepreneurs in the market with innovative projects. And by the way, we all know that the EU gives most of the support exactly horizontal support, innovation-oriented support, high added value creation, and these are these projects. Community programmes are an opportunity for us to achieve this climate here in Croatia. We've had good information, we pay membership fees for it, but that's why we don't have available information and we're unprepared for European competition under these programmes, and for some programmes, let's just say, money was thrown away. This definitely should not have happened, and that is precisely why it is likely that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has withdrawn from the MP7 project, which is what my colleague Mondekar was talking about in the introduction on behalf of the club, and that is one proof, let's say, of the weakness that has welcomed us about the use of one of the most serious funds in the EU pre-accession fund programme. The easiest thing to say is now we're going to start using structural and cohesion funds. They need to be well prepared. The key cooperation is the co-operation of local self-government units. More than 60% of all events in the EU are happening on local self-government units, so their preparation and their involvement in the realisation of projects itself is the most important. The state bodies, there are assistants, they can help in part, and they need to do it, part of it, but the units of local self-government are just the ones who are the bearers of development. However, in order to move 3.5 billion letters on paper to operationalisation we have no projects, we have no capacities, no one talks about how much the first year of membership will cost, and in certain projects we will have to borrow credit. And now we're coming up with that old story about why you're borrowing credit for something that's a question of whether or not they're going to come and experience their own realization? The issue of liquidity, small units of local self-government that are not ready for major expenditures, and they can also become victims of fraud, or people who can benefit from certain property benefits on these projects. Therefore, the framework for this activity needs to be regulated first and foremost. What I have to say when it comes to the use of the cohesion funds that are waiting for us, for example. Slovenia has built all its highways, at least most of them in recent times, using EU cohesion funds and funds intended to connect. I'd like that to be the case with us, but I'm still stressing that before that, the key effort will be preparedness. At the expense of the administration, that's what I was talking about yesterday. yesterday at the moment, with the establishment of a number of state agencies responsible for certain jobs in Croatia's EU accession, we still believe that this number should not have been that large because all countries, EU countries, do not have such a number of agencies. If there was red tape in the process, the administration was up, the administrative costs were up, and the project capacity had just been realized, and the SAPHAARD project had not been realised at a satisfactory pace. Also, when it comes to funds that are waiting for us, cohesion policy not only means connecting, it means connecting in every sense. This also focuses on the European Social Fund, the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund. In addition to these funds in the Republic of Croatia, there will also be funding from agricultural funds, funds for border management, funds for the transitional period to continue the adjustment of the state administration, and that is what is the key thing and what is the key emphasis and what we are repeating all the time. That in the last six years, key reforms, key structural reforms, so when it comes to state administration reform, public business reforms, and we are going to have a hard time doing these very things with EU funds. Once again, I point out my biggest regret for this report is that we have used very and extremely few funds from pre-accession funds, that it is presented as being used 95% because it is a figure that shows how realised it is in relation to the funds that are agreed and that is in some way misleading the report and the manipulation of the public by the report itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53345	Thank you very much. The following has been reported for the debate by distinguished counterpart Davor Huška. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53346	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Much has been said already in the corrections of the quote and in the replicas, but I will repeat a few of the most important things in my mind, and I will begin with one card to all the users of the funds. I know how they have come from experience as the head of the unit of local administration and that it is not easy to pass all that procedure being positively assessed and ultimately in accordance with all the regulations of these funds and properly exploited. And really honest congratulations to all those who have managed to reach European funds. We see from this report that many such units are local and regional (regional) self-government and other users who have used the funds of pre-accession European Union funds. Of course, that would not have happened if we didn't have a good network and the organisation of supporting institutions, starting with resolution ministries that co-ordinate the use of pre-accession funds, the Central Finance and Negotiation Agency that lowers all the powers, guidance, education through regional self-government units to local self-government units. And apparently from this report, there's a lot of good consumption and implementation in the field. We know that the conditions of evaluation, approval, bargaining, use are extremely strict, but success is not missing. I agree with my colleague Bernardic that there is an extremely important role of the units of local self-government, municipalities and cities, so those lowest levels of the organisation and they are ultimately users of these non-small funds. I can't agree with the whole day of exposure of my colleagues from the opposition that we don't have projects, that we don't have the capacity, because these reports, these numbers of projects used, are just saying the opposite. And this is good training, one good preparation of a great experience for the structural funds that have been waiting for us since 2012. So all these expensive, mean, bad forecasts of opposition at the head, of course, with the SDP falling into the water. Every half year when we receive a report here at the Assembly on the use of pre-accession aid funds of the European Union. In the end, I want to say something about education for the structural funds that are waiting for us to come. I believe that the ministries and resolution institutions will organise education as soon as possible for potential users from the Structural Funds. The other day, I had the opportunity to stay in Slovakia and saw how the towns of Slovakia used these funds. They say from experience that the procedure is far simpler, that they are well trained in relation to pre-accession funds, but without education without the experience that countries have to use structural funds will not be easy for us to get those grant funds for cities, municipalities, entrepreneurs, farmers who will be potential beneficiaries of these funds. So I ask that, as soon as possible, through the state institutions, governments organise education, not through private consulting houses, where we pay fatly for every participant in education. They basically convince and speak what they download from the website of our institutions that have already prepared all this neatly and complexly. And it's far more quality when education is spent by people who work on these jobs and at the Central Agency for Finance and Negotiation, both at the Ministry of Finance and at the Ministry of Regional Development than some quasi consultants who collect it well and some of the benefits are not great. I am giving full support to this report and I hope that this result in the use of funds will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53347	Thank you very much, colleague Hushka. We have an application for a replica, a colleague of Parliament's Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53348	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here I am fully agreeing with you colleagues in this segment in which you have apostrophe of assistance to family agricultural economies when it comes to the use of pre-accession funds and, of course, structural funds. I also spoke on behalf of the HSS Club about this, because I believe that this greater engagement and interest should also be shown by the authorities of the state administration but, of course, regional administrations, because we know that many counties have development agencies that have departments for European integration. Some counties do excellent work and indeed help not only agricultural families but cities and municipalities to prepare these projects. Unfortunately, in some cases, political personnel or responsible coalition partners who serve as handlifters of such development agencies are also involved in Croatia. And those agencies don't show any results. The programmes for agriculture are extremely demanding we have seen this through this report but experience in the field when it comes to agriculture is really looking for a lot of conditions. It takes a lot of permits and a lot of paper to prepare. He cannot expect Croatian peasants to work on the ground from morning till nightfall, to produce food to store space, to process the country and then write more projects. So it's up to all of us to secure adequate infrastructure. I think that can be helped by the Croatian Agriculture Agency and the Ministry of Agriculture and Advisory. But I also appeal again to these county structures that indeed through their development agencies and departments could help farmers write projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53349	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53350	I agree with you, colleague Petyr. Of course because our farmers our peasants, our OPGs are the most endangered group of potential users in using these pre-accession and ultimately following access funds for all of these reasons that you've counted. Both our local, regional and all other institutional bodies and support must motivate, educate and assist in implementing and using pre-accession funds and our peasant and our entrepreneur and all other potential users of these non-small European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53351	Thank you. A distinguished colleague colleague, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, applied for an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53352	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. What kind of state are we, what kind of authority are our institutions, are they solid, what are the structures about them? This report speaks more of it than the authorities themselves say about how the situation is, or how they would even better say what they would like to be and tell the full truth, how they would like to be shown in public. Namely, the report on the use of pre-accession EU assistance programmes for this period from July to December 31st last year speaks and testifies how our trip to the European Union from that famous fifth speed has turned into a long-term journey, a painful road, with the great uncertainty still waiting for us on that road, and I have already said several times that this car that should take us to Europe is very tight, and the most important wedge that is stuck in that car is corruption itself. In fact, when we take a closer look at this report, then it's quite clear that all those millions, 150 million euros that have gone to waste speak and testify, I'd say that it's even a minority to say that we've been using those funds a little bit so far, and we could have been much, much more. We heard today from our HDZ colleagues that it is not such a situation, that it is true that some programs are little or less exploited, so the self-reduction and escape from problems and the mitigation of problems are always catastrophic in our condition. So that you don't even think about something more serious in that sense or do it. The letter also of the European Commission to Croatia has already been said here, so where it is quite explicit how much Croatia has lost pre-accession funds and how little and not enough funds are being used. Why is that, and why do we use a little of those funds? Of course, the basic problem here is that there's little to know, which is specific knowledge. Education still hasn't gone that way to power our capacities. That's what colleagues, about nepotism, people coming in, said a lot about abuses. So the basic problem is that we don't know how to use it, and the other basic problem is that why we don't want to learn to the fullest extent. Because it's funds, funds that can't be swindled. You can't fool around with a single euro, not a single cent. And for our authorities at different levels, then they're not tempting means because they say they don't see their own interest in it. One example is the City of Zadar. The city of Zadar, which cries out for many social institutions, for kindergartens, schools, many things, has not used any means. They're in some kind of negotiation right now, and the question is, what's it gonna be? This thus clearly shows that some do not need it. Here, a colleague, speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club, said that the truth exists some minor irregularities, these are ridiculous irregularities. Yes, and these are indeed from our point of view, as we respect the law on the spending of our citizens' resources may be minor irregularities, given what else is being done with state finances, but from the perspective of the European Union it is a disaster. And reducing these means you don't see the problem we really are in. If this is really a small thing, let's say from the CARDS programme in 2003 to improving vocational education and training schools, so the tender procedure was already missing, the documentation was missing, so it was found that the user did not provide all the documentation necessary to justify the costs. It's a little something for us. Then also from the CARDS programme 2003 promotion schools for vocational education and training. Competition procedures, violations of public procurement regulations, were generally violated by public procurement regulations. It's our cancer wound, there's the huge resources we lose, our own resources. So we tried to do it here even though we know that at least we tried. Many have tried, if it passes, it won't catch up. Well, we're smudged, if he's messing around with his own citizens, he can't fool around, and we're gonna learn it late. And we're really one repeater here. What's the difference between a character and a twin, which is the same lesson they have to learn, except a smart man gets to learn right away, and the other one goes through time and then carries an extra burden, and every passing of time and is paid dearly later. Keep going. From the CARDS Programme 2003, the procurement of social infrastructure. The purpose of the project was not met, nothing was obtained at all, which was necessary in view of... Then also from the same programme, the purchase of social infrastructure, the purpose is also not met. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From the same programme, support for the Croatian judicial system as well. There was something that wasn't supposed to be used at all. From the CARDS 2004 for the device... The whistler, therefore the project's funds were used in a non-intentional manner to cover the costs that are not at all related to the project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a little thing for colleagues from HDZ. CARDS 2004, providing social services to older people in some municipalities. Therefore, public procurement regulations were again violated. The 2005 PHARE programme for coastal cleaning around the river Kupa and Chabranka, of course, did not respect contracts, i.e. cautele contracts, did not provide documentation for the construction of the sewer system. But what happened in all these cases, there are more. Therefore, the Central Agency itself has requested the recovery of these funds for funding and the negotiation of EU programmes and projects. All these funds had to be recovered, and many ended up in a criminal court, or some are still in the state's attorney's office's phase because they were reported guilty. Also, counterpart Pejcinovic said it was really a small matter that funds were used unintendedly for the purpose of covering interest costs. So that's our thing that we don't look at at at all, we don't see in it everything that happens in public procurement, nothing observable. And there are many more, and these are serious, serious remarks. However, what I would like to draw attention to, which we do, not only now but also tomorrow when we come to the European Union. In fact, we have set up a system for the collection of funds for the use of renewable energy sources. By the end of the year, the government must form the one and the programme exactly according to the European Union's obligations. But for nothing, so we're already raising those funds from the citizens. Because of this, electricity and all energy are expensive to our household, it is expensive. But here, we have to do it and it's good to do it. But then it's wise to strengthen our own industry, which will then be used, that means that resources and that energy in our own industry. Because tomorrow, when we come to the European Union, then we will raise funds from our citizens for the energy that a German will use. Therefore, the time has finally come for the Croatian government to come here to the Croatian citizens, first of all to the Croatian Parliament and to say what our public, social interest is and what are the primary branches of the industry that Croatia wants to encourage. Because without it, we don't benefit from anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53353	Thank you very much. Replica, dear colleague Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53354	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Antičević, you have said that this process of using pre-accession programs is an extremely complex process. I agree with that. Here you can see that HDZ and SDP agree on something. You have also said that there are insufficient numbers of professionals who have been trained to exploit these programmes. And I agree with that, but I don't agree with the part that makes it so, that it's only because there's been some kind of abuse of those funds disabled there. Well, it's not disabled because you saw it, and now you've mentioned yourself that there are these cases when the abuse situation is being misused and that the funds are not being spent on purpose. But there's no one else looking at negative phenomena. If it's not intended, it's not intended. If it's big, it's big, it can't be small at the same time. It's not small for us, it's big for you. It can't depend on something because someone's looking from HDZ or SDP. The basic problem of why there is insufficient training is because the knowledge needed for such an extremely complex, specific, and the compensation for this work does not correspond to the level of that knowledge. And that's the reason for the lack. Where's something used better, where's worse? So it depends mostly on local self-government, not on whether HDZ is in power or the SDP is in power and how well that self-government is trained at local level. The truth that this use of pre-accession programmes was a unique opportunity for Croatia. And did we make the most of it? It's impossible to use optimally, but the results must be positive, it must be good use. That you can always fix – you can, but you can't always drive Mrs. Anticevic at the fifth speed. You know this as a driver very well, because sometimes the bandage, sometimes it should be slowed down, moved to third, so the acceleration has, and the difficulties and obstacles are on this complex job very often, so it's impossible to always drive at the same level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53355	Thank you very much. Replica reply, colleague Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53356	So what I'm saying is that all these irregularities that have been detected are not minor. These are serious irregularities and are often also criminal acts. Here's to another project, the SAPARD project. From the project Improving processing and marketing of agricultural and fishery products. So, of course, a case has been reported to the State Attorney's Office where the SAPARD Agency broke the contract, requested funds to be recovered. Namely, not only were the data misrepresented, but they were still falsified. Then you have another case from the SAPARD program suspected of fraud, also due to incorrect documentation. Given how much money was being used, this is a large number of attempts to hunt in the cloudy, not to mention those who are the most money in the dim that didn't even want to engage here in the use of these funds that citizens needed. But simply aware that they would fall under monitoring, under the control of such a business they did not even engage in. So we can't say it's all black. There are people who do it great, who have reborn their local community. But these are unfortunately bright examples. Since we've been using these pre-accession funds, we should have had almost 100 percent effect by now, and we're just now meeting something that should have been done at the beginning. Therefore, the problem is serious and we need to raise awareness of it in order for things to change. By reducing the problem, we won't achieve much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53357	Thank you. And final secretary of state Ivana Maletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53358	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you very much. Here's what I'd like to conclude is what's been said in the debate. First of all, I would like to thank those individual MPs who really show a high level of understanding and knowledge about this very complex system because this is what impresses both the European Commission and individual member states. And indeed these discussions at the level of our Croatian Parliament are a special achievement for them where they see high involvement in being at the highest level very active and monitoring at the highest level of very complex issues so I thank you for that. What I have to say is that all of these now reviews about reports that were actually talked about trying to deceive the public or to display the data wrongly and in a different way. Indeed, when it comes to this report and the data in it cannot stand and are not objective and objective in nature, because it is a document that is closely followed by the European Commission with a very close eye, followed by a European Union delegation. So no one thinks of a single word, not a single word to put away from what's really happening in reality. So no one has any intensities to misinterpret anything and to try to deceive the public, and at least all respected representatives in the Croatian Parliament. So the question was that we didn't write as much as we could pull back. In each table, it says exactly how much total allocations were made, how much of these allocations were agreed, and we had already discussed in a series of discussions before that all the projects that were planned and agreed were, in fact, pre-accession programmes on lower-price settlements achieved by savings. That's what they're called. left overs for which the part of the unused funds remains. So it is indeed the Republic of Croatia when it comes to pre-accession programmes, this first generation for which we can underline the line is successful and has really made good use of these funds. Especially now, the story is highlighted and this part is related to irregularities. I would like to offer a higher level of all those who are really very good at using, who have prepared excellent, beautiful projects and have shown that in the Republic of Croatia the level of knowledge is very, very high, at one enviable level, so both in the business sector and in the non-profit sector, and they have also proven to be extraordinary projects that have appeared on... Schemes and eventually they used these projects extremely well, wanted to say that it was essentially 560 projects that were implemented through... [[You don't understand.]] and that you have irregularities found here in only 17 projects, means 560, 17, but it only shows how detailed the system is being controlled, checked at different levels, it has been continuously audited, each project is being monitored during implementation, so when the implementation is completed, there is no way that any irregularity is being moved, and that is why it was found and these irregularities are all on paper and for these projects, unfortunately those who have made mistakes have to return the funds, so they are not left with these funds, they are being returned and contracts that have been signed, if this has been found in the course of implementation of the project. [[You don't understand.]] Two cases from SAPHARD are what they are and they've taken all the measures to contain it, but it also shows how completely, objectively and realistically this report is, so there's absolutely everything in it, there's not one thing that's happened that hasn't been put into that report. This has been notified to the European Commission, which is known to be the arrangements for all those relevant at European Union level. And that's actually our future. European funds and this manner of communication and work in the future of the Republic of Croatia. The accession of the Republic of Croatia will, in fact, participate in a common policy with the European Union and our Parliament will also adopt documents adopted at European Union level and before, present their views on the working bodies of the European Commission and at European Parliament level, so it is extremely important that through these reports and such discussions, we are actually aware that it is documents that are not only our own, that it is documents that are being reviewed and looked at by all relevant institutions and bodies from the European Commission and that we really cannot enter such flat-rate reviews and say that it is a public delusion and that something is unrealistic. So I have to drop it. The letter of the commission was also mentioned, and then it was mentioned in different contexts. Some MPs spoke about the Commission letter for all programmes, put it in the context of the temporary suspension of the use of funds in 2007, the temporary suspension that we all know it was never a secret, such a thing cannot be a secret, it is done by the European Commission and it automatically presents it to all Member States, cannot make that decision alone, so all countries know, so that it would be a secret to us. So this is something that was immediately discussed, which was immediately presented to the public and the system was strengthened. And that letter from the Commission was about regular communication, so our institutions are constantly changing a number of letters with the European Commission, this is one in a series of these letters. We send a number of reports on the situation in the implementation of each individual fund, in IPA of each individual project even, so this letter was also related to the correspondence between our institutions and the European Commission on the topic of SAPARD and IPARD where the European Commission actually asked us to, as well as other countries, what it requires, to say the problems in SAPARD and IPARD and how they led to the lower use compared to other programmes, because we are very successful in other programmes. The European Commission is also asking a little bit of questions about its rules set out in SAPARD and IPARD because they also see when they have done an analysis across countries that the level of use of SAPhard is lower than other programmes, and then they wonder whether there may be some criteria set out in that programme too harshly and are being examined with all countries which could possibly change there. We see any weaknesses in that system. And we have answered that letter very extensively and in detail, referring to certain rules that certainly pose a problem in the implementation and implementation of this programme and which are set at European Commission level and we are going to... It means just to talk on that topic at the highest level. [[You don't understand.]] So it's a common communication, it's not about any particular threats, we are no longer at the level, at that level of talks with the European Commission, it's about a partnership relationship, about one collaboration, about working together, they really respect our people and delegations when they come to the very beginning when we haven't talked in the same language yet, because we just didn't know their rules, then they're trying to speed things up, but there are no more suspensions. So this way of talking is no longer available, and we have a completely different kind of cooperation with the European Commission. I will just look back on one more issue that has been raised almost in all the discussions, related to co-financing at the level of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. When it comes to pre-accession assistance programmes, local and regional self-government units have had the opportunity to participate in cross-border cooperation programmes and in... , so those tenders they called for project applications. [[You don't understand.]] And there are basically very simple rules set out in the funding aspect for local units, because they get 80% advances when they are approved. So it can't be some excuse that they haven't responded to such tenders and these calls to the liquidity problem, so they didn't have the funds, because they get 80% of the funds for the project to finance the project, and after that, when they spend that part of it, they're certified together, they justify, they get the rest when it's established that everything is procedurally well done. What could be a problem, and we are now working to keep our funds from happening is actually a system of funds that has been set up in a way that projects are first funded, and then costs are certified and received from the EU. In that part, we have already negotiated with the European Commission because, in fact, the use of funds, the good use of funds is in the interest of both the European Commission and all the Member States because cohesion policy is a common policy of solidarity. Therefore, no one's goal is to keep these funds unexpended and to see one country as a failure and not be able to participate in cohesion policy because this puts a questionnaire on the cohesion policy itself and its meaning. So there is the interest of all of us to be good at this, and therefore the European Commission is doing everything in its power to help us and to encourage us to prepare ourselves even better and make better use of the resources offered to us. And that's something that's very good because we have partners here, and not now some relationship between conflict and confrontation. So, and so, when it comes to co-financing, what the European Commission already has in its fund regulation is that at the level of the total funds signed to be used through cohesion policy, it is actually 2.2 billion for the Republic of Croatia in the first 2 years, we are bringing a national strategic reference framework and at the level of the national strategic reference framework we will be able to sign a full part of co-financing with the EIB. So it's a loan that's a special nature, in these cases it has a grand period of 5 to 7 years, a rate of 2% interest. So, extremely favourable conditions. No budget Gap can be financed in this way, no financial instrument is actually so tailored and so cheap, so to speak, that it is essentially for all these development projects for which countries must borrow the European Commission in that part therefore provides funds through the European Investment Bank that are then received as advances. So one part is obtained in the form of advances and this solves this liquidity problem then both at the central level and at the unit level of local and regional self-government because the total assets are signed by a public loan that is given to individual local units, under the same favourable conditions, they could never get on any market. So, on the same favourable terms. As for the legal constraints which were also put forward as a problem in the 2008 Budget Law, which has been in force since 01.01.2009, we have prescribed that all the responsibilities relating to the financing of EU projects and programmes do not enter those limits when it comes to local units. Here, it's actually another important piece of information that I think is important that you know. And of course, as far as education is concerned, we have a special part in the education report itself. You've noticed that well. We will continue to try to implement them at all levels and include everything in as high quality implementation as possible. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53359	Thank you to the secretary of state. And before I conclude today's work, we will continue to work and start with point 5 on Wednesday's 26th, this is the Annual Report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of human resources policy and the overall state in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for 2009, with the Report on the State of Defence Preparations in the Republic of Croatia for 2009. Thank you very much, and I am concluding today's work of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53360	We move to the Report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2009. Carrier of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the conclusion that: a report on the use of pre-accession programmes and the assistance of the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2009 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The report was accepted by the majority of 80 votes in favour, 7 abstentions and 11 against. So please let me ask you, do we have how many MPs there are that, however, 83, we have the quorum. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please engage. All right, all right, he's counting it. It doesn't have to be turned on. We have a quorum and we can make a valid decision. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose an addition to the 18th session agenda with a new point. Proposal for the award of the Charter to the first members of the Assembly, members of the Government and the Presidency of the Republic of Croatia in the period '90-92. a year of recognition for a remarkable contribution to the creation of an independent and sovereign Republic of Croatia. If he has a proposal, the President of the Parliament is according to the Rules of Procedure. Any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of this item in the 18th session agenda? There isn't. So no one has any objections. I find that we have completed the agenda of the 18th session with the proposed agenda. I would just like to explain very briefly that twice this proposal was discussed at the session of the Bureau of Parliament. We have concluded that yet the 1st session of the Parliament should in some way mark or give recognition to the participants of the first Parliament plus the members of the Government and the Presidency. We didn't go wider, although there are a lot of people who weren't members of the Parliament, or the government, or the presidency, but we couldn't get into it because then it would be discussed, someone would suggest this, someone that. In any case, it would be difficult to establish one common criterion. This is how we pointed out which advocates I think can be accepted by the fact that the President of the Republic who has constitutional powers to give other recognitions, medals and so forth during this year can also make any such decisions on recognition, i.e. medals or the like. I'm opening a debate. The Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Shakespeare, called for a more precise explanation for this item of the agenda because it did not exactly go according to those decisions to quote the arguments. Here you go, Mr. Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53362	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. For the sake of accurate and correct historical truth, in the light of the proposals for this plaque, this decision, given the fact that the argument states that the armed rebellion was with the participation and support of the Yugoslav army should be specified and formulated in a slightly different way. Namely, the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament of 8 October 1991 found and wrote that armed aggression by Serbia and so on was committed in the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, the JNA should also reshape this part in the light of this decision. So, it is not about the participation and support of the Yugoslav army, but about armed aggression on the Republic of Croatia by so-called Yugoslav People's Army and Serbia. And in those conclusions, the Yugoslav People's Army was also declared an occupation army. And secondly, in this section concerning the decision to break up state-law bindings in reason, it states that there has been a break-up of state-law ties between the Republic of Croatia and the former SFRY, which is incorrect. Because the decision of October 8th reads: "The Republic of Croatia is breaking up state-law ties with republics and provinces on which it formed the former SFRY." Such a formulation would assume that there has been a secession of Croatia from Yugoslavia, the one that is correct in the decision to break up state-law bonds, that the SFRY is no longer there. This is the team, also in that decision, and to break up state-law ties with those republics and provinces with which Croatia formed the former SFRY, so I suggest that the reasoning of these conclusions be restructured.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-21-0.u53363	Okay. Thank you. Is there more debate? If not, I'll conclude the debate and make a motion to vote. Therefore, it reads: The proposal for the award of the Charter to the first members of the Parliament, the members of the government and the President of the Republic of Croatia in the period from '92. the year of recognition for a remarkable contribution to the creation of an independent, sovereign Republic of Croatia. Who's to make this decision please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I am calling unanimously with 97 votes to adopt this motion for a decision including an explanation and an addition of the arguments given by Vice-President Vladimir Seks. Thank you very much. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, we continue with the work of the 18th session, with the item of the agenda as announced - Annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the human resources policy and the overall state in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for 2009, with the Report on the State of Defence Preparations in the Republic of Croatia for 2009, The applicant of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government submitted this Report on the basis of Articles 8 and 120. Defense laws. You received the proposal by mail, the debate was conducted by the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Branko Vukelic, Defence Minister.
