ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64344	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. The financial year 2009 was marked at the Financial Agency as a year of consolidation and further adjustments to the market conditions of business. It was the year in which important decisions were made to determine the future business and market position of the Financial Agency and in which the pre-conditions for its re-positive business were created. In 2009, as you have in your report, the Financial Agency made revenue of 885 million kuna, which is 9% less than planned and 3% less achieved in 2008, while the expenditures achieved amount to a billion 44 million 471 thousand kuna, which is 2% more than planned and 10% more than that achieved in 2008. As a result, the loss expressed in the amount of 158 million 624 thousand kuna. The causes of this financial outcome lie in the years of the fall in the physical volume of business in the most significant business segments of the Financial Agency and in the relatively fixed character of the largest part of the cost, e.g. Only staff and depreciation costs in 2009 amounted to over 60% of total costs. From the table part of the financial indicators, you can see that the loss of 158 million kuna is the largest part, most of which is related to the costs of the shipping companies, which will later be a little more than a few words, which is 92.5% of the total loss achieved. Otherwise, if we compare the results of the 2008 and 2009 operations, except for the cost of severance and retirement, we come up with the fact that in 2009 a loss of 12 million 76,000 kuna was achieved compared to 2008 when the loss of 22 million and 900 thousand kuna was achieved, i.e. the loss in 2009 was almost halved. A few words about business activities that took place during 2009, and in the spirit of that opening part, that is, the year of consolidation of the Financial Agency. During 2009, activities on strategic projects were completed as early as the fourth quarter of 2008. The most significant project, i.e. the document adopted in FINA, is the transition strategy of the Financial Agency for the period 2009-2012. I must say that this document does not adorn the shelves or regulars, but, according to the Supervisory Board, its application is carried out at the monthly level to achieve this strategy. In this trial document, FINA received two groups to put forward the task and measures it must take to consolidate, so it would only taxively list which two groups of strategic measures and activities are drawn up and on which the FINA is working intensively. The first group of strategic actions is a reorganisation in order to achieve an organisational structure that will be more efficient, flexible and rational. Second redefine business models in business segments that produce negative results, and bring them into the positive business zone. The third measure is the implementation of the Excess Employees Management Programme and... the number of employees in existing jobs in the framework of definition of internal Benchmark. [[You don't understand.]] And the fourth measure in that group is the establishment of a new wage and reward system that will be more appropriate to market business, and more stimulating to achieve optimal and above average results. The second group of strategic measures and activities is next, and we called it a strategic turn that must have already started to happen, but which must happen in the coming time, and this is the achievement of new revenues through three points, i.e. three measures drawn. The first definitions of new products on existing markets, the achievement of new ones, the opening of new markets for existing products, and the exits to new markets with existing products. Furthermore, after the transition strategy, the project that was carried out in the FINA, which was implemented, is a new internal organisation of the Financial Agency. It's short notice. The goal was to make it more efficient, rational, and more functional than found, so that from the founding 13 sectors, the business sectors of support, today FINA has 6 sectors, the number of lower structural units from 114 is reduced to 68, that's... about the new organization. [[You don't understand.]] We in FINA consider that one of the most important projects that has been carried out is still in realisation, which is a strategy of real estate management of the Financial Agency. As a result of this strategy, there was a need to optimise the existing cost of real estate which is not directly related to clients, in accordance with the current situation on the real estate market and the need to reorganise the whole business. The application of the new Real Estate Management Strategy is reflected in the relocation of all and business and support sectors, administrations with all accompanying services and departments to the new location on Žitnjak. So far, these sectors have been located in a building in Vukovar, the second part of the building in Koturaska Street and the third part in the rented space in Hondlova. So it's the first time in the history of the financial agency that it's a complete centre, so all the business sectors support with all the accompanying services in one place. The expected net effect is estimated to be between 10 million and 12 million kunas net. In addition, throughout Croatia we had plenty of empty spaces,... empty spaces, and I'm happy to say that at this point over 60% of those spaces are hired, so commercialized. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And on that basis, we also expect substantial income. Furthermore, you heard probably and read in the media that next, I can also classify it into more significant projects, which was carried out during last year, and this is a project to isolate business with cash. This segment of business over the last 10 years has been the largest generator of negative performance. Thus, in September of last year, the company FINA cash services, which is owned by 100% of the FINA and its separation from the organisational structure of the FINA, will be established to consolidate the part of the business relating to the cash business, which is the processing of the money, distribution and service of the ATM. FINA cash services will believe as a new entity, that as a new entity they will be profiled as a significant, reliable, quality and competitive business partner to the Croatian National Bank, business banks and other commercial clients. Issuing cash transactions into a private company is part of the activities also defined in the FINA transition strategy for the period until 2009. With today's FINA GS d.o.o. The employment of 470 workers and for the first 6 months began to work in nature on 3 May of this year, so to this day, they have achieved a profit of 800,000 kuna. Which is more than satisfactory, above planned, since they were the biggest generator of FINA losses in previous periods. What is most significant, without which it could not be said about the long-term good positioning of FINA and the long-term business results of FINA, and this is one programme for the care of extra employees. So a few words only about him, more technical data than to elaborate what happened before and how long it took. It took 14 full months. For these 14 full months, daily contact is with our social partner. So, completely transparently done without any data hiding, so with data, analysis, so clear arguments. The implementation of the extra-employee programme is also one of the measures, you heard me say what strategic measures and activities are defined in the transition strategy. It was designed to increase the competitiveness and position FINA better on the market. The FINA Supervisory Board accepted our program at the end of last year. Its implementation began also at the end of last year and ended on 18 February this year. I've said a few technical details about this care program. The total number of staff taken care of through the program is 1004. At the time of the adoption of the programme by the Employment Office, it was 22% reduction in the total number of employees of the Financial Agency. I think that such an example in the nearer and further past was not that it had done such a significant and extensive programme of care, which was definitely inevitable because it created assumptions that really FINA could approach the realization of the other, other groups of strategic measures and activities, which is the long-term positioning of FINA and long-term business. It is not noteworthy that, for the purposes of implementing a care programme defined and approved in 2009, and in accordance with international accounting standards, the funds for the payment of the severances amounting to 146 million 548 thousand 831 kuna are burdened by FINA's operations for the past year. That's why that loss was realized. With the amount of 12 million and 100 thousand kuna paid during the last year, and during this current year, 2010. 134 million 488 thousand kuna. All in accordance with international accounting standards. And the figures, with today's day after that FINA-mother's care programme as we call it, are currently 2961 employees, and when we count the number of employees from 470 in FINA cash services as daughter companies, so the consolidated FINA today has 3431 employees, and the administration, when it received its mandate in February 25, 2008, found the number of 5147 employees in FINA which was simply not tolerable in the long term. Just another Mr. President minute, two brief reviews of 2009, which took place during this year, all resulting in these listed measures, namely the strategic objectives set by our owner, or the Supervisory Board. During this year, the implementation of the FINA strategy and the new business orientation focused primarily on clients and the resolution of their business needs began decisively. It has been working on profiling FINA as an institution that solves business problems of its clients in quality and efficiency with the use of modern technologies. Taxation only has been done specifically and is under way since this year's projects, some of which, especially next year, should receive even more positive financial results than the current FINA has for this period of 10 months. First, FINA has done its own resources for the purposes of the paying agency in agriculture, fisheries and aquaculture, a project called "The establishment of a process of performing operations of operational and IT support to the gas oil control and control system for the purposes of specific purposes in agriculture, fishing and aquaculture". Colloquial media calls it "Blue Diesel." Another project that had completely done FINA and delivered it 31. 8th of this year, the pilot project for the purposes of the Office for Central Public Procurement under the name "Information of the Office for Central Public Procurement"... assuming that further development of this application should fully electronicise the public procurement process or be made by electronic means. I am pleased to say that in all the participants in the procurement procedures this pilot project has encountered fertile soil and expectations are large and in the sense that the application that will electronicise the entire procurement process is brought to life as soon as possible. The strategy when I spoke to the main groups, these are new products for the existing market or new products for new markets or existing products for the existing market, are two projects. One is quite close to the end, and this is a project called "Employment of a single system of forced payment grounds", we call it performances, blockades, etc., and media use such terminology and this project must be delivered and will be delivered, or will function with 1. 1. 2011 The FINA project will be an institution that will perform all blockades, executions in all accounts and citizens, legal and physical persons. We've got a big job ahead of us, and right now we've got information that we're gonna be there by 31. This year, 12th of the business banks that have done most of the work so far receive about 620 thousand items that will need to be introduced into our system and that as soon as possible we take full control of the forced collection system. And the project, which is also in the final phase and is due to be delivered by 31 March of the following year, which is the FINA holder and it is called "The establishment of a single register of state and public officials and tenants". This has been done, and this is the basis for optimism that FINA has already done with these projects, and other projects that I do not wish today not to burden you with a time-consuming shift without which, unfortunately, there is no perspective for FINA in the long term, because with the care programme and these other projects, are created, once again, I am stressing only the basic assumptions that this is done. And finally another sentence, according to previous business indicators, I think of the first ten months of this year, the planned profit in the business plan for 2010 was 40, or we planned 43 million 217 thousand 677 kuna, for this year but personally I think that the planned gain for this year will be exceeded. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64345	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64346	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable President of the FINA Administration, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament held its 62nd session of 29 September 2010 Annual Report on the business of the Financial Agency for 2009 as a home working body. In his opening statement, the President pointed out that the activities launched were aimed at implementing the reorganisation of the business of establishing a system of more efficient real estate management, a programme for the care of extra employees, as well as redefining business models, products and markets. The scope of the work performed by FINA, for example, was highlighted by the fact that close to 100 million payment orders were carried out in 2009, and only in the centre of REGOS was nearly 2 million related payments of contributions processed. Total revenues were slightly lower compared to 2008 at 885 million kuna compared to the year 2008 when they were kuna 911 million, so a 3% reduction was reported, and expenditure increased in 2009 compared to the rate of 10%. The result of these increased expenditures and the total loss of 158 million is largely the process of taking care of the surplus of FINA employees where 1004 employees were taken care of, totalling 146 million kuna. After the debate, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget decided by a majority of votes of 5 votes in favour and 1 vote against, 3 votes abstentioned to propose to the Croatian Parliament the conclusion that the Annual Report on the financial agency's 1009th annual business report was accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64347	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64348	Thank you very much, Mr. President, esteemed Prime Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. From 90th to today, the road from SDK to FINA was heavy, thorny, full of obstacles, obstacles, difficulties but FINA survives. It has been shaken over the past years, and according to the results of its operations but has been shaken by certain changes in the legal rules, and in particular this was the part where the banks took over payment traffic, a payment traffic function outside the FINA, that felt significantly on the business results of the FINA. It was not only this result that it was not only a reduction in income, a reduction in activity, but also a weakened control of financial transactions in the Republic of Croatia. After a loss in 2008, worth 34 million kuna, the 2009 plan was a loss of 51 million kuna, yet this plan was not achieved but a greater loss was achieved, i.e. a loss of 158 million kuna. But this loss is due to the provision of extra employees, which will actually result in positive results in the future. This is a good basis for the efficient business of FINA in the coming years. And already in this year 2010, he felt a positive result of these changes. Thus, in the first 6 months of this year, a profit of 35 million kuna was achieved, and in the first 9 months of this year, profits amounting to 78 million kuna. The difficulties encountered by the FINA administration were forced to make several strategic decisions in 2008. They defined the FINA transition strategy in 2009-2012, established a new internal organisation, identified an optimal number of employees and established a technical surplus management programme. Of course, changes in business, changes in demand activities and organisational changes. And it's a good thing that FINA reacted spotlessly, reacted timelyly and with good measures. It is good that identifying the optimal number of employees is the result of a newly formed organisation, because very often the organisation is based on the number of employees rather than vice versa. And it is right that what has done to FINA is to first establish the necessary organisational structure based on the activities of the FINA itself, and then establish an optimal number of employees based on such an organisational structure. And of course that has already yielded results as I said in early 2010, especially for the first nine months when the profit of 78 million kuna was achieved. In the future, we can only expect better results. Because some changes in business policy are visible in FINA's business policy. Two years ago, the Committee on Finance and Budget was considered ineffective, partly inefficient, real estate management. This has been corrected lately, and now special attention is being paid to effective real estate management as visible, resulting in positive results. Also in strategically considering and positioning FINA, FINA has been defined and set up as an important strategic and directing role for it to be a state agency. It's her place. But it also does not ignore the commercial activity of FINA and commercial cooperation with banks and with the banking system where there is still room to exploit all possible potentials. In particular, it should be noted that for many years, FINA has been so organized that it has responded to changes and activities. Because she had too many sectors, because she had too many organisational units. With the new organisational structure, the new organisational structure has been rationalized both in width and in depth, and at levels so that sectors with a total number of 13 sectors are reduced to 6 sectors in the FINA, and the organisational units were even 114, and now 68. It is this new rationalisation, this new organisation, that new organisational structure that is an excellent basis for achieving even better business results and more effective action. FINA has employees who I believe are the most qualified in the Croatian company for work that works. All we have to do is make an optimal use of that potential. FINA should use all the potentials provided to them, especially as a database. There is no institution in the Republic of Croatia that has such a powerful database as FINA. And it's good that this year's revenues are up 1% for the first nine months than in the same period last year. And this is the result of the change in the way FINA is managed, changes in the organisational structure and the way in which it is managed. And how big a job is it and how many jobs does FINA do? Just one piece of information is enough to say that last year they processed almost 100 million warrants. It's a huge job. FINA has a position and possibility to be the central place of records and control of contributions to contributions. This role will play a very powerful role but a very important social role will be able to play if it adapts to certain requirements today and today. But it is really inadmissible for anyone in Croatia to pay the salary to an employee without paying the contributions. And there is the control mechanism, the control point of the FINA is very important and should be looking for its position, its place because we have cases that some employers who do not exactly serve the honor of the Republic of Croatia do not pay even salaries to employees for their work, let alone those who pay their salaries without contributions to health and pension insurance. With such a practice should be stopped, and I see this role of FINA as a key control point so that it could not happen in the future. A FINA also has the capacities and capabilities and knowledge of such a programme and establish. FINA has implemented restructuring and will be implemented in the future in accordance with the strategic plan, but it also cares about equal regional development and even development of the Republic of Croatia. So it is commendable that it has not abolished any business or organisational unit throughout Croatia, which is for every praise. The HDZ Club accepts the report, will vote in favour of the 2009 FINA Report, supporting all the changes it introduces, but also calling for the activation of any potential potential that lies ahead of the FINA, which are really big. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64349	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64350	The Honorable President, the Honorable President of the Board, colleagues and fellow MPs. FINA is a state-owned company for financial intermediation operations exclusively operating on the market principle. FINA is a legal follower of the Department of Payments, i.e. formerly older social accounting services. The annual report in question shows that in 2009 it marked a strategic shift in order to stop years of negative business trends and consolidate the adaptation of the entire organisation to market conditions. The reduction in costs at all levels has been achieved through the implementation of the austerity programme and, through the reduction of investment activities, more efficient asset management has been achieved by preserving financial stability and liquidity. As the most significant activities on the route of the FINA consolidation are the separation of the largest part of the cash business in the private company FINA-providing services d.o.o. and the implementation of the new system pays. Financial business data show that in 2009 the Financial Agency made total revenues of more than 885 million kuna, down from 3% of the revenues made in 2008. In the structure of the revenue achieved, revenue growth was achieved in the consumer services sector 31% and information and communication services 17%, while revenue cuts were achieved in the cash sector 7% and in the state service sector 7% and banking services 6%. The total expenditure incurred by the Financial Agency in 2009 is more than €1 billion and is 10% higher compared to expenditure incurred in 2008 and the most growing financial and extraordinary expenditures in the expenditure structure were 27% lower than in 2008. It follows that in 2009 the Financial Agency achieved a negative financial result, i.e. a loss of over 158 million kuna. As a result of the projects launched during 2009, concrete activities were carried out in the field of more efficient cost management, internal structure and strategic product management. The programme was also developed to provide additional employees of FINA, which was positively demonstrated by the Croatian Employment Service, which was provided by 1004 employees. For this purpose, more than 146 million kunas were spent, making the 2009 financial result negative and more than 158 million kunas. Management of excess workers part of the activities along with other significant activities on the path of FINA's business consolidation, the separation of most of the cash business in the private company FINA cash services d.o.o. and the implementation of the new system pays. In addition to financial operations, it is important to note that FINA acts as an active participant of a wider social community and a socially sensitive company continuously implements activities to assist selected institutions whose projects and activities are related to humanitarian social action and improving the quality of life. In addition, the FINA continuously monitors and improves the management system and thus the certification house carried out a supervisory review at the FINA and reports show improvements relating to the quality management system that has been accepted and maintained at all levels. Although the loss in 2009 of 158 million kuna is higher compared to the loss in the period 2008 to 34 million kuna, we must say that the loss is fully covered by the reserves of retained profits. It is important to note the stable trends in business improvement and consolidation of the adaptation of the entire organisation to market conditions as well as data on business from the beginning of 2010 because FINA regains profits. The 2010 financial plan provides for a profit of 40 million kuna which, according to the results achieved for the first 5 months of business, will be achieved. From all this stated club, the Croatian Peasant Party will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64351	Thank you. It's up to IDS Club and Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64352	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. President of the FINA Administration, gentlemen of the MPs. Well, let's just take it this way. First of all, on page 3 of this Annual Business Report of the Financial Agency for 2009 it is said that the Programme for the Management of Excess FINA Workers, further in the text of the programme, was submitted in December 2009 to the Croatian Employment Service, which was positively evident about it. In accordance with the new Labour Act, the conditions for implementation of the programme were met in early 2010. At the same time, the conditions provided for by international and Croatian standards were also met. It is then further said that the cost of implementing the programme, severance and other costs related to the burden-taking of the business year in which the programme was adopted, regardless of the main amount of the compensation according to the programme was paid at the beginning of 2010. The implementation of the programme took care of 1004 workers and spent €146.5 million for this purpose. For the most part, because of these costs, the financial result was negative in 2009, clearly 158.6 million kuna. So the severance per worker in FINA was cca 146 grand or to be more precise 145 thousand 964 kuna and 97 limes. I clearly don't want to talk about it. I think that's less correct. I don't mind, nor do I, that in other public systems than HRT, they still pay off 300, 400,000 kuna severances. God forbid it's worth it to the Parliament or to someone in the government because the citizens would tear us apart. Therefore, not a word of it. On page 5, these financial data were provided by the director a lot of where the 2009 plan was seen to have been 968.3 million kuna. However, the total income ultimately amounted to 885.8 million kuna. There's been a certain loss. But what's important is that I also think here what's FINA. He keeps running away from me at this firm. FINA, it is not clear, although I am not sure that FINA also did not participate in rerouting certain funds for the activities of a political option. But let's let it go now. What bothers me is that certain phrases here on page 6 are then said to literally quote the branched network of businesses, the information system checked on the most demanding jobs of national importance, and the professionality and efficiency of employees will turn the vision of FINA as a client-oriented company into reality. Each FINA’s office offers idivualized financial administrative services regardless of how small they were, giving each client equal attention, because in FINA small things mean a lot. Well written, but I think these phrases are unnecessary, and now I'm also quoting one quote on that same page six that the Department of Payments inherited in '93. The social accounting service which in the former state had the exclusive right to conduct foreign payment transactions. He perfected both technological and organisational records and kept the monopoly in the area of payment traffic until 2002. More than 500,000 real-time transactions, an extremely high level of customer satisfaction and an extremely positive assessment of domestic and foreign institutions have contributed to the acquisition of a top reputation for ZAP on the financial market. I agree, and I think it's also good that since January 1st, the performance will no longer be done by banks, but only the executions will be carried out by FINA as we call it a state institution. So, since 1 January 2011, meaning in a few months, not months, but weeks, so to speak, it means moving from banks to FINU exactly this very demanding and extensive job. In the past eight years after the transfer of payment traffic and thus all accounts by the legal person of the bank have taken over the implementation of the accounts. It was clear from the beginning that it wasn't bank business. I don't know why it took so long to insist on it. I guess the banks would make more money. But when they finally realize that it makes their business more difficult here they return this extremely demanding work of FIN to what I think it should be, it means that legal provision or that legal possibility or that legal solution in any case implements it. It will be more normal for this business to be done by banks no longer, but it should also mention a huge amount of work to be opened by the FINAs. For the time being, they still haven't said from FINA how they're going to organise the job. But in a situation where they fight for each job, they clearly don't have much of a choice. They just have to do it. I said until that big deal stays a few weeks or so for a few days. A new way of doing business is regulated by two laws that enter into force in 2011. Thus, the Law on the implementation of the law on monetary assets and the Law on Payments, which are also based on the European Directive. What it's gonna look like, how it's gonna be done. Just to say that after checking all the accounts the client has issued to the banks, they're officially combing all the accounts in a single bank, regardless of whether it's kuna or foreign funds. The link is clear that banks are not allowed to issue those accounts, but the OIB does not need the executioner's consent even if the basic payment is not determined by the performance of all accounts and by the means of money. If the basic payment is not based on the accounts on which the execution is carried out, the enforcement shall be carried out in all banks, starting with the bank which manages the earliest open account, and further as already clearly prescribed by the law. On page 12 of this Financial Report, we are talking about human resources, more specifically the number of employees. At the end of 2009. FINA had 4372 workers, down from 2008 to 147 workers. After that, there was that under quotes of severance layoffs and so much just to mention that the regional centre of Zagreb counts about 37% of that number. Regional center Rijeka 16, regional center Split also 16%, regional centre Osijek 13% of the total number of 4372 workers. During 2009, 245 workers were stopped from working on the basis of a personal conditioned job cancellation, which was requested by 135 workers. Based on the contractual termination of employment 49. Based on the expiry of the working contract for a specified time of 47 workers. And based on other reasons, death, extraordinary dismissal, etc. 14 workers. On page 14 of this report are given two interesting information that... and the socially-oriented sponsorship of FINA spent around 500,000 kuna in 2009. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A man even asks himself a question. Is it only 500,000 kuna? But what's interesting is this data for the union. The independent "Solidarity" union is an important part of our community, according to the head of the administration, which FINA proves to the union's money support by giving support to trade union association and defence of workers' rights. In 2008, 250 thousand kunas were donated to the union. There's so much about the independence of the union movement, but that's what I wanted to emphasize in particular. FINA sport, so here is said to literally quote that it nurtures team spirit and community, which is another FINA force, another phrase in fact, for the purposes of FINA sport in 2009 set out about 860 thousand kuna. Clearly, such institutions are privileged in any case. I'm not going to talk about these awards, but I'm sure that FINA is one of the most grateful companies in the public sector, there's simply no one who runs that society can lose unless it's entrenched in some of the jobs that don't fit the law. We are following now that Minister Shuker, if he leaves the post of Minister of Finance should settle down in the Privredna banka and Croatia insurance, I am afraid that this second phase of privatisation of the Post office and Croatia insurance package is followed, and are probably also interested in our tycoons, as well as for some government-owned monopolies. All in all, I want to say that it would not be good to privatise neither CRO insurance nor the Industrial Bank, and in particular not to think that FINA is going to be left to someone else, because for 2010, from the words of the director or president of the administration we heard earlier that this society will achieve the least, it is planned to amount to 43 million kuna, it will certainly be something bigger and therefore I say monopolies and these national systems are the golden coke of Croatia, this little remaining economy in national or state hands, and therefore it should not be touched, it should not be privatised. All in all, I think there was a significant shift in FINA's business in 2009, I want to believe that it is similar in 2010, and I think so much that there will be no one in this assembly who, who would vote against the adoption of this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64353	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64354	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. President-in-Office. We have yet another one of those reports that leaves doubt, because there are reasons why the report could be supported and why it should be rejected. It is certainly a fact that this report quite objectively brings a review of the situation, and what is very important problems that have been facing FINA for years, but also that what it says inside is not certainly good, cannot be welcomed and does not deserve support. Well, here are just a few elements that actually indicate the problems of FINA. For the third year in a row, FINA shows a loss in business, it is about 159 million this year, so I'm talking about 2009, but compared to 2008, when it was 34, or 2007 when it amounted to 23 million kuna in this report, we also see that regular revenues fell, let's say in 2009, they are lower by 30 million kuna, which is about 3%, and this is somewhere in the trend of revenue decline since FINA came to market in 2002 and lost a monopolymic, or a monopolistic position in payment traffic, and we see that since then the average rate of annual income decline is around 2.7%. Furthermore, all of the FINA's business sectors have generally failed in relation to the plan that was adopted for 2009, and compared to 2008, those that were actually most important and were most important for the share of total traffic, so let's see, for example, those that actually fall below the plan cover 80% of the total income of FINA, for example. The centre of payment operations records a decline in revenues of 15% compared to 2008. There is also a bad trend that is likely to be eroded with a general recession, which is that the payment of claims is even worse than in 2008, so it has risen from 149 days to as much as 180 days, even a little bit there will be a FINA somewhere equal with the situation in pharmaceutical companies. Furthermore, the trend in one-off participation of staff costs continues. If we were to compare 2002 when the share of staff costs was 42%, now in the 2009 we're talking about it's slightly higher, it's more than 45%. If we know, if we compare what it looks like in the private sector where about 13% is, or public enterprises where 20% is, with all the specificities of FINA and its activities, it is definitely a very high percentage of the share in total costs. However, something should also be said about what is actually positive, because this report when compared to the 2008 report is certainly not as pessimistic and dreary as it was before, FINA inherits problems, it still faces them and there are no major shifts, but the fact is also that the loss shown for last year is mostly due to the care of workers, and this care takes part in those 159 million kunas, even with 146 million kunas. It should wait and see what it looks like in 2010 when it comes to reducing staff costs, but the rapporteur himself says that this reduction will not reflect more than 20%. So we will again come to some level of 36, 37% of the participation of employees in total costs, which is important above what the government is in both the public and private sectors. Furthermore, the fact is that this 3% decline in operating income is less than GDP, and the fact is also that it is obvious that FINA has endured a slightly better impact of the financial crisis and recession than generally taking the economy, but we can also recognise that some segments such as. The centre of business with the population grew by 11%, which means that FINA in the sector, in particular, maintained its business share of around 37%. What happens in 2010 when you compete with it and mega shopping centres, so where you can pay all the bills now and at the shopping malls, we'll see. Furthermore, in the cash distribution and service sector, the FINA ATM maintained a market share of 55%. So that's good news. The good news is that according to its suppliers, FINA has lowered the number of days of waiting from an average of 72 to 57. So these are positive things. What is of course not seen in the report, and what is not to be silenced, is a steady political pressure on FINA which is a public matter. And the president of the administration knows very well that he has just been installed by a person who is the political commissioner, who is mostly following what is done in the FINA and reporting to the chairman of the Supervisory Board and that is all his job. We also know that USKOK confident Damir Mihanovic has opened a topic on which there is no word in the report, nor in what we have heard verbally from the president of the administration, which is an attempt to destabilise the market position of Croatia's insurance through FINA. What is ultimately, on the one hand, if we are talking about someone trying to bring a foreign partner, a prominent insurance company through FINA in Croatia, because otherwise insurance houses have to go not from zero but from a fat minus, and someone allegedly promised them to use a counter for 30 years, then we can talk about how this might have been a good thinking from the perspective of FINA because a strategic partner is looking for a strategic partner who is likely to subscribe cash to its costs, especially real estate management, but whether we know that both FINA and Croatia are state-owned companies then the question of how it was possible to determine the national interest, i.e. whether it is accidental that the chairman of the Supervisory Board and Croatia's insurance and FINA are the same person, i.e.e. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Furthermore, there are certain problems in communication with some state bodies because I, too, have personally been sued by some of the heads of the State Administration's authorities that, on the basis of the conclusion that the Government has practically committed everything to take certain service analytical packages, or programmes, to show that, in relation to the situation on the market, the offer of other providers of these packages is not fast enough, efficient, expedient and that, in that sense, the ratio of the value of what it offers and what can be obtained on the market is in favour of market competitors. I'm not saying this as gossip, but as a suggestion to FINA that it does something better to the quality of the packages it goes towards the state because it can't and can't count on a privileged situation because sooner or later it's going to have to come to a game with other bidders where it won't be able to defend any government provision but simply the Public Procurement Act. After all, it should be said that we at the HNS-HSU club will refrain from this report and we think that we should also methodologically repair it in several segments. First of all, we think it would be good because it is one of the major issues in the functioning of FINA, which is tabular to show the movement of the number of employees, of course with the average achievement of regular income per employee. It also seems to us that it would be good to show the business of the sector and business centres within the sector with total revenue and expenditure by sectors and centres, in order to make it clear which segments of FINA are actually turning back, stagnating or progressing. Moreover, the implementation of a more efficient real estate management system, which praises the management of the FINA in this report, should certainly be monitored because the report itself does not provide comparative data on how to use this more than one billion kuna worth of FINA assets. Given the doubt I raised at the beginning of this debate, I announce that the HNS-HSU club will be abstention in voting on this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64355	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Madam Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64356	Dear President, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I must show the dissatisfaction of the SDP club with the fact that my predecessor has completed his exposure that FINA as a state agency is actually still in transition and seeking its position on the market, so its market niche after 8 years of existence. Namely, until the end of 2001. The payment service, the legal predecessor of the FINA, had a monopoly in the conduct of payment traffic inherited in 1993 by the then transformed SDK. Unlike ZAP, FINA, founded in early 2002, continued to carry out payment traffic, but in a completely different situation. So, in market conditions as an outsorcing partner to business banks. Over the next few years, payment traffic has migrated from FINA to business banks, and this has resulted in a drastic decline in the physical volume of activities in the most significant segments of FINA business, in the processing of security and cash orders of payment and in the processing of almost money. FINA, on the other hand, inherited both large and valuable material assets and more than 5,000 employees from ZAP. And what is most valuable to know is how, in one word, the resources that were unfortunately in a growing disproportionate manner with the aforementioned drastically reduced volume of work and which became an increasing cost burden in the functioning of FINA. In a way, we could say that FINA was found in scissors whose arm represented significantly reduced revenues, and the other arm was huge fixed costs from the title of pay and depreciation. And these scissors clearly cut the financial result from year to year to achieve as much as 18% of the revenue achieved in 2009 exactly. The truth of the report shows that 2009 was the year of the definition of the FINA transition strategy by 2012 which, along with the new organisation, established the number of workers needed, and with this in relation to the provision of extra employees and that is what is unacceptable for us. So, only in 2009 is the strategy defined, FINA was 7, if we include 2009. Eight years for this transformation, it's actually seven years of lost time, and the wealth of resources hasn't been adequately used in the meantime. The extremely valuable bases at which FINA had to become public, but FINA had to define its financial services market status far more strongly so far. The FINA Management Programme has reduced the number of employees by more than 1000 workers, so now around 3600, although on page 7, where the FINA values are being talked about continues to be operated by a number of 5000 employees and should certainly be corrected. And that is exactly how taking care of the extra workers to the greatest extent determined FINA's business result in 2009. In fact, total revenues amounted to 886 million kunas, and total expenditures of a billion and 44 million kunas, so 159 million kunas more than revenue. In other words, the loss of current business amounts to 159 million kuna and is almost fivefold higher than it was a year earlier in 2008 when it amounted to 34 million kuna. In 2008, the cost of supplying excess workers amounted to 11.5 million kuna, so a third of the current loss, while in 2009 they amounted to 147 million kuna and reached as much as 92% of the current loss. The management of the FINA assures us that taking care of extra workers was a good business move, that already in 2010 it shows positive effects since the monthly cost for workers is reduced by 20% and that by the end of 2011, these savings will be covered by the total cost of the extra workers programme. The president of the administration said in his statement that the planned profit for 2010 amounted to $43m and that it would be possible to exceed and that is the good news. However, when it comes to the care of extra workers, it is not possible to silence some of the side effects that were happening, namely, at the same time as more than 1000 people were being solved, FINA hired new workers, but of course not any, but members of the family of course of HDZ's highly-positioned people, and of course not to any jobs. For them, new leadership jobs were created that did not exist in the FINA system even in those times when work was over the head. For example, she received a Business with only one employee and a significantly reduced number of jobs. So, at times when there was much more work, the Rules of Procedure did not need a leader. Addressing excess workers, only one of two large ZAPs inherited problems that were disproportionate to the constant reduction in the volume of jobs and thus generated huge fixed costs by reducing revenues and conditioned a negative financial result of business. The other problem is real estate, FINA's numerous and wide-ranging network of businesses and branches, outposts and secluded counters is an extremely valuable resource but irrationally exploited and this is what we of the SDP Club warned about in the discussions of previous years. At the end of 2009, the value of FINA's business premises was more than 740 million kuna, and it is clear that the costs of depreciation remain a huge burden in FINA's business. Certain moves made in terms of more efficient management of available squares and which we read from this Report, such as the provision of business space in the lease or the collection of management of business and administrative sectors in one location, therefore under one roof, are not sufficient. Unfortunately, the state as the owner of FINA has no real solutions to what to do with this valuable asset actually we could say there is no solution at all what to do with FINA but there are some bad attempts. One of these bad attempts, and what my predecessor was talking about, is that Minister Shucker as chairman of the FINA Supervisory Board, to place FINA at the disposal of his business network to the German insurance concern Talanx ag who would use it to place insurance services on the Croatian market. Indeed, the question must be raised why the Minister as a representative of the state in the FINA Supervisory Committee has extended the private interests of a foreign insurance company while also serving as chairman of the Supervisory Board of the largest domestic insurance company, Croatia, in full state ownership. Croatia's insurance in the distribution of its services could be used for Croatian mail counters, but not for FINA counters. Further from the report it is evident that FINA is trying to consolidate its business and extract some segments of business from the existing organisational structure, so in September 2009, it founded its first company daughter, FINA GS d.o.o., FINA, a cash service that is 100% owned by FINA. And in this case, there are some issues such as whether this is the separation of relatively profitable work and the first step towards privatising FINA. Furthermore, just in the report, it says that the consolidation of finance sought to contribute and reduce investment activities. However, it is really not clear how this insistence includes the fact that in 2009 FINA acquired as many as 89 delivery vehicles and 3 high-class personal vehicles for the needs of the administration. What kind of financial consolidation is this? Especially if this huge investment is reflected in the context of the simultaneous resolution of a huge surplus worker, and especially if it is known that a number of these vans have never been put into use but are literally hidden in the garages of FINA’s branches. What a blow it was to fina's finances and liquid liquidity and whose interest it was. Finally, it should be reiterated that FINA, if it even solves the problem of high fixed costs through a reduction in the number of employees and a more rational use of material resources, still remains a real business insurance problem, the problem of strategic positioning FINA on the market with new services that would provide it with more sustainable profitable business. Without it, the agony of business destruction will continue, and the reduced number of workers will not be fully employed. At the moment, FIN is operating on dozens of different services, from highly sophisticated financial and other services, through control of the consumption of blue diesel in agriculture, fishing and aquaculture to selling mobile bonuses. FINA, meanwhile, even shut down some services that proved unprofitable. For example, the FINA compensation service launched in autumn 2007 and abolished at the end of 2009. The assessment was that, in the current economic situation, the overall indivisibility of users was more likely to come to real, tangible jury money in order to settle current obligations and obligations towards workers, and unfortunately could not be compensated. In other words, this service was not interesting to users even though it was free for some time. We can only say the damage, because compensation as a model of reconciliation of liabilities without the presence of almost money could make a positive contribution to solving these huge problems of indifference. On the other hand, a short time ago, we heard about this same thing today, and FINA received a new service based on the Law on the implementation of the law on monetary assets. In the fight against all general liquidity, FINA will run a single account register and conduct debt implementation through banks. The 12 billion kuna debt has accumulated in 19 thousand phantom companies, as politics has allowed these owners for years to open new companies without settlement of accounts in previous companies. The scales of mutual non-payment today are such that they have literally blocked economic flows. And now the government has proposed eradicating such companies through an early bankruptcy institute. Unfortunately, it has to be said, it will only be a statistical erasure, because the debts will remain, the creditors will remain outstanding, there will be a lack of trade capital, and it cannot in any way contribute to financial consolidation and a reduction in the level of total indifference. Therefore, this market cleanup measure of permanent non-proliferation from the government's economic recovery programme will remain just another dead letter on paper. And let me get this straight. Due to the accumulated huge losses in business on the one hand and the fact that FINA still has no clear vision of its future and defined financial services market status, despite the fact that it has truly extraordinary resources, above all more knowledge, we show the reserve against this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64357	Thank you. And on behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64358	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, and Mr. Finna, the Financial Agency. Here, evolution I would say since the '90s, which in three words can be reduced to SDK, ZAP and FINA has led to today's debate on the 2009 Financial Agency's business report as well as every year, but also every year to consider the loss that FINA shows. Someone here said it was the agony of FINA, maybe it's too heavy a word, but when we have reports like this every year, this word could be applied. The report, on several occasions, mentions that FIMA respects either the account or what it says here, makes little difference to her. Furthermore, there is also talk of very often teamwork. All right, fine likes small things and FIMA likes big things. At the very beginning of the report, it is said that the loss itself was created by the programme of providing for thousands and 4 workers, workers, and for this purpose there was 146.5 million kuna spent. And then negatively, the negative is 158.6 million kuna. Therefore, when this amount is rejected for the programme for the care of dismissed workers of a thousand and 4 employees, then some 12 million kunas remain, which have nevertheless shown a real loss of FINA. In the further text of this report, it is mentioned that FINA will establish a new company called "FINA Cash Services" d.o.o. in 100% of FINA's ownership and that this new company will be separated from the organisational structure, which is more than clear according to examples from the past and examples of other companies, smells like privatisation. We've been living to see it, but it's more than clear, and I'm saying given what we've been through and we've been going through these 20 years and how it's done this way, I think that's what's going to welcome us, and that's exactly the privatisation of a company that can do relatively well in this market. Since 1 January 2011, so also the executive processes, the implementation of the exercise goes to the authority of the FINA and will be very interesting to see how this institution will deal with almost, as someone said here, about 12 billion problems arised due to the individence and financial indiscipline in the country of Croatia. Of course, this evolution of SDK towards ZAP and FINA led to a deliberate political decision and a decision to continuously reduce the scope of jobs. Payments of natural persons, therefore private persons, are given the opportunity to conduct business banks. The payment turnover of legal entities has gone well to the tax administration, i.e. business control. What's left of the FINAs, then, would be said well and business of the FINA is actually the activity that the SDK once had and that controlled or controlled all these cash flows and the legality of these cash transactions both private persons, natural persons and legal entities, companies, institutions and other things. Here, in some ways, it would be said that FINA in such an environment that was decided by a political decision, and I believe that in this, a good share was taken in the way it was privatized, in order to make a conversion so that, in fact, through the partial destruction of the ZAP or SDK, the Social Accounting Service had clouded some of the things in this country so that there was no trace of where he went together and where he moved it, etc. It's FINA as a state-owned institution actually reduced to here to say the minimum of my functions so then here we have one emotional approach, one subjective approach on many pages of this report says because in FINA small things mean a lot. Like that song, "Life makes things small, your games, your jokes." So, SDK and ZAP as payment monopolies clearly yes but as well as as good supervision of financial transactions, it stopped being the creation of FINA. When we look at the network of fina's offices and the network of the center of the fina's then we see, I have to say from my regional approach, and a little shame. Namely, FINA’s offices and centres have a total of 178 locations in the Republic of Croatia, of which in Slavonia 27 and of these 27 are one centre of Osijek, which out of 4372 employees employ 13% at the end of 2009. So that's exactly eight of the total employees of the FINA in Slavonia and Baranja. So eight employees or 570, with a number and a letter, because 13% represents 4372 570. When you look at the age structure of employees, I congratulate you on the education of the staff in FINA, but look at the age structure of employees for over 50 years there are 36% or most of all of these categories that are listed here. And right after that, over 40 years to 49 has 32%. So when you add up all the employees over 40 years then it's 68%, 68% of the employees are over 40 years or more than two-thirds. High professional prepares 16%, higher 13%, mean 66% or 2/3 of employees are medium professional staff, and lower professional prepares 5%, unqualified in FINA. Today's business, cash business trust me on the one who doesn't know, and I believe everyone knows, works at the registers of some department stores, not just a bank of business. I will not deliberately specify the name of that chain of commerce that conducts the cash business that should be done in the FINA or somewhere in the bank, but by blocking buyers in the department store, in large centres... I'm not going to say what it's called superk, and when I'm blocking ordinary customers, they pay for electricity, water, phones, and I don't even know what they don't know, at the department store. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we meet every day, we see it every day. Is it FINA's competition or is it again something that has been cut off from FINA's activities, it has been given to business banks that have taken a good cake by charging a fee from citizens, by private persons and by making money transactions, starting with wages and further payments and making themselves clearly rich. In many FINA offices, here's an example of the Slavon ship I come from, a part of the FINA's space was rented to a commercial bank. And not only the commercial bank, there is now a reconstruction of the building, etc., but I must say that I was surprised when a large part of the space was rented to a business, commercial bank a few years ago. FINA therefore has the possibility to be a central place and records and supervision or control. Mr. Maric spoke here about the non-payment of contributions to pension and health insurance. It is true that there are a lot of companies that pay salaries or half of their salary or are late for a few months without contributing to health and pension insurance at all. Clearly today with no consequences. And when, here's my bright yellow, there's more to be said. Therefore, by giving the possibility to provide payment services to business banks, commercial banks clearly that FINA had lost part of its business and part of the possibility of increasing its business. So here's an example of why it was done, one to say Bauer Bank was brought to the Republic of Croatia. With as much and with what and with what references and preferences, commissions, etc. In order for her to take her share of the cake, should I say in the Croatian market and in the business that is clearly competitive and related to the business of FINA. So, by destroying that evolution that I began to talk about in the beginning by destroying, political destruction and the Social Accounting Service, and later the ZAP. Here we came to the FINA that I would say constantly, a little constantly in trouble given the losses shown year after year. The state has no vision or strategy to do with it, and as the club said before me, indeed, this is the kind of report we would receive at least with the reserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64359	Thank you. At 10:55, it's past 10 minutes' notice time. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64360	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. I'd like to start by saying that I'm going to support the 2009 FINA report. In fact, I think that FINA's business as a state agency must be seen in the context of the specificity of its creation, redesigning, restructuring of tasks and the objectives set before it. From this point of view, I do not think that we should analyse the assessment of the success of its business only from the point of view of economic indicators of business performance because we are aware that FINA is not a classical financial institution of the type of business banks whose basic motive is only profit, i.e. the achievement of the greatest profit for the owner. It meets the daily needs of its clients in 180, so places, locations and in the most remote places in Croatia that are therefore not profitable are not interesting to other financial institutions. The fact is that the whole population is not equipped for modern forms of payment, thoughts of online banking, the issue of the necessary education, so they really remain able to carry out financial transactions of pension, defence, exchange and other financial information and services. I also think that it is necessary to say that the state as owner must also take care of the needs of all people, regardless of what is sometimes achieved. On the other hand, in terms of improving the performance of FINA, it continued to adapt to a very demanding financial market in 2009. Specific activities have been carried out in the field of more efficient cost management, internal structure and strategic product management, with a view to the consolidation of the FINA part of the business relating to cash operations. In mid-September 2009, FINA founded the daughter of FINA cash services, which is owned by 100% of FINA. Several new projects and IT solutions have been created in the direction of winning a new market and the increase of a number of information services. Work continued on cooperation projects with local communities. I would especially highlight a project and a city that allows for a more efficient and accessible city administration. With Raiffaisen Bank, a co-operation agreement has been signed in the area of Internet banking in all FINA’s offices, dividends from the Croatian Defence Fund are paid. A contract was concluded on the distribution of insurance products and services by Croatia insurance in the FINA 17 offices. HR was founded in 2009 by 2834 companies and 548 crafts. The pilot project E-business was completed in 2009 and started at the end of 2007. Strategic co-operation with the Government of the Republic of Croatia was continued in 2009 to implement national projects. It is also necessary to say and specify that HITRO.HR Service is declared the best concept of service in the field of company registration, as well as the use and use of electronic solutions. The European Commission has recognised the best European solution in the field of electronic administration. In 2009, adjustments were made to the implementation of the OIB, i.e. adjustments to the REGOS system were made to changes to the regulatory framework. It should also be said that indeed in December 2009, FINA adopted a programme to provide technology excess workers representing the most extensive programme of this type in the public sector, in cooperation with trade unions and with the approval of the Employment Office. So all the workers are properly taken care of. So the social situation was also taken into account. What I would now like to say on the basis of the presentation of SDP by colleague Nadica Jelas, who blames FINA for all the consequences, i.e. he blames the government for the law that was passed in 2002 – the Law on payment traffic when ZAP and made proceeds more than 80%, therefore from payment traffic. When ZAP was blocking and implementing and it was transferred to banks. The banks were able to make more accounts available, so they could decide which account, i.e. to unblock the funds, or to take the funds and thus carry out the operation, etc. ZAP also made sure that when an entrepreneur delivers salaries, contributions are paid. You transferred all of this to banks in 2002, abolished it, and now the consequences with age are coming. And it's really not fair for you to blame FINA, or the Government, because the fact is that the 2002 Payment Transport Act, which has passed the SDP law with catastrophic, or harmful consequences for the Financial Agency, and also for the economy. So when you propose laws then you have to take care of what you suggest, the consequences are now and it's not fair on your part that you tell us something that in FINA and the government are really trying to make this FINA work, to adapt, a non-transition strategy was adopted in 2009-2012. It's the last one, it adapts constantly, but you have to admit that every year since HDZ is in power to really adapt to FINA, it's looking for new products, so that everything that you've passed with your law to sort of solve all these negativity. So I think that this 2009 FINA report is real, objective, and that FINA is really looking for solutions, again I say about everything you've passed with your 2002 law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64361	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64362	You tell your colleagues how many companies and crafts were founded according to the fast.hr model, however, we made a serious observation that you abolished that protection mechanism so that no one could start a new company or a new craft before paying suppliers, creditors, they were workers or states. You strongly opposed that by saying that it was possible to play it, and that you are going into such a project. Just a few months ago, Minister Shuker and the entire government admitted it was a mistake. And now you say how much, when you already list these companies that are in that model and in such a way, that remain in their own debt, and formed new companies, how many creditors were played and not charged, who couldn't even collect their claims.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64363	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64364	Like this, fellow Anticevic, you really deceive the public. And what happened, I'll tell you why and what you do constantly. You've made, say, you know that companies are connected to a unique home number of citizens, you've passed the law, you've decided to abolish it, you simply don't, the owner doesn't know. You mean every owner could have opened a new company. It was therefore difficult to perform some blockades. It's another law, another one of your decisions that you've made wrong. In order for something to work well, it has to be transparent. I can only tell you that the consequences of this decision of yours, and I think it's really big, just like this law, and the unique birth number, when you abolished it, made it possible for all of this to go on. Quick.hr got a real confession and a reward. ... I'm telling you about everything, this government has done everything to make sure that companies do business normally. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64365	Final review, head of the board of directors of the FINA Mato Regvar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64366	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'd like to answer two final words to some questions that were asked here. The first donation of the union of 250,000 kuna, it's not a trade union, and that amount of 250,000 kuna is not for the regular activities of the union. The union has a trust fund that provides assistance to socially endangered families, employees and the like, so this is the contribution of the FINA to help the union in their activities, hence additionally vulnerable employees of the Financial Agency. Otherwise, neither we can make donations, or funds for the regular activities of the union. 800 thousand kuna for a FINA sport. It's a tradition already of FINA since it's been there, is that it's... She's part of the financial industry, the bankers accept us... [[You don't understand.]] we participate in sports games every year, regardless of the difficulties they have been in business, we have not abolished it, but we have reduced the amount of these funds quite well. [[You don't understand.]] It is mentioned that the former board of directors, led by the Supervisory Board, had intended to give the insurance to a foreign house for 30 years, to understand the space and all other benefits well. This administration only in writing that came to light in February 2008, it was only two conclusions of the Supervisory Board, that it was given the information from the administration about taking steps in terms of the engagement of a global insurance company. It's not a secret. It's about the Talax. When we came to the Supervisory Board, we were tasked with carrying out the analysis of it, and we did, I think that at the 1st or 2nd session of the Supervisory Board in 2008 the proposal for this administration was that any further contact with Talax was terminated and that there was no point, but to turn around, means domestic market, which is Croatia and domestic insurance houses, which resulted in last year's business technical cooperation agreement with Croatia insurance. So that's, that's the end of it. Real estate. True, 820 and how many million kunas is the book value of the real estate that FINA has, it's market hard to estimate, because FINA has... Locations, monumental buildings and FINA, this administration knows how to manage these properties, part of which I mentioned in my report, and this second part 60% is currently commercialized, or rented to other legal and private persons, so income. [[You don't understand.]] There is further commercialisation of the remaining free spaces, but this will cover both the financial effect and all of this safely in the 2010 report. Furthermore, it was a question of the territorial distribution of our business units that, if I understand correctly, there is sufficient representation of each region because I do not think there is any institution or body of the state administration, let alone commercial banks or other companies with a regional interest in being dispersed, there is no better coverage than FINA has. We have 183 exact letters and a number of locations, but the graduation of our construction units in the network is as follows: regional centres, branches, offices, outposts and separate counters. What was said to have a business with the boss and one employee, it definitely can't happen in the FINA, it's probably a two-employer facility, but informally someone who takes care of more than the other. But it's not about the boss's place because the business below 5 employees can't function, it's about the outpost. And the slogan, we inherited the slogan "Little things mean a lot."I personally like him very much. And in the nature of FINA it applies as well. When we say that, little things mean a lot to us, every client is important to us, and that says the fact that in this current year we recovered 8% and increased the payment orders of the population. So every single person is important to us. That's why we're spreading the network, and during the administration, there's not only been a reduction but there's been an expansion. 21 new locations are open, so we're approaching the final customer, he was a citizen as an individual, he was a craftsman, he was a legal person. Let's go, and the effects can be seen. Here, in that sense, just as one example of the explanation of the slogan "Little Things Much Meaning" we will continue to use it, we will still have it in our reports if necessary. And I was probably too careful, I didn't want to prejudge because it's still up until the end of the financial year in 2010 so he wouldn't deny himself and dispute himself in assessing the final score for this year, and I pointed out where he wasn't just the result, he wasn't just the result of the care program, he was also these other activities that I mentioned that I wasn't coming back. But in 10 months I'll tell you in a letter and a number, in 10 months this year, with 31.12 yesterday, we had the Supervisory Board where the Supervisory Board was formed and 84.5 million kuna was formed, FINA earned. Our assessment is that it should be stopped at 90. If I'm going to make a million, two, three of them are my own fault, but provoked, the hard word is provoked, offered better to some remarks here's what I'm saying in 10 months this year. Well, listening to me, you've probably noticed that we're aware of that, too, is that the Supervisory Board, or the owner, that through the care program, all of those projects created assumptions for the longer-term positioning of FINA as stable outsorcing, i.e. companies supporting the financial industry. Without that other group of strategic activities, there is no long-term business like this. You can't expect that, so the fight for income through those 3 points, and some have already been achieved through those 4 projects I said. 2 done, 1 will be delivered 01.01 next year, and the fourth will be delivered on 1 March next year. Here, and I don't think the other questions should be answered. The question of a rolling stock, I think Mrs. and member of the Supervisory Board Mrs. Majdenic said we don't buy vehicles, and practice was before. Because the calculations show that we're going to Leasing, and every one of these vehicles has its own justification. And these vans are all operational, not only in Zagreb, but also wider, and in the garages they're not hiding. They hide in garages if there's rain, snow and too much sun. They're absolutely functional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64367	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64368	We are going to vote on the debated and closed agenda points. First is the 2009 Annual Business Report of the Financial Agency. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual Report on the 2009 Financial Agency's operations is hereby accepted." Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by most votes, 77 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 30 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64369	We move to the next item - Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Croatian Radio and Television Programme Council for the remainder of the term of office Proposer: The Committee for Information, Information and Media has proposed this decision on the basis of Article 18. Law on Croatian Radio and Article 118 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the motions for an act in boxes. Representative for the Committee on Information, Information and Media, Mr Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64370	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, on 24 August 2010, Mr. Sinisa Grgic resigned as a member of the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council. In accordance with the law, the Information, Information and Media Committee has launched a procedure for selecting one member of the HRT Programme Council for the remainder of the term of office. After the tenders were received, the Committee considered them, distinguished those who were justified, who had all the documents of those in which some of these documents were missing, and sent it to the representatives’ clubs to agree. The consensus failed, there was no agreement, but as Mr Sinisa Grgic was elected to the HRT Programme Council on the parliamentary majority proposal, it is under the provisions of the HRT Act and his replacement is elected on the parliamentary majority's proposal. The MPs' clubs submitted a proposal to the committee to appoint a member of the HRT Programme Council for the remainder of the term of office, with a proposal to be Mr Petar Lovric. The Committee considered this proposal, the session was held in full, all parliamentary representatives of the board were at the meeting and a unanimous decision was taken. Since the parliamentary majority has the right to propose this programme council member, all MPs have respected this parliamentary majority right and propose that this House be elected by Mr Petar Lovric as a member of the HRT Programme Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64371	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64372	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This is one case showing all correctness of the parliamentary minority or opposition. In contrast to the situation in which the parliamentary minority had the autonomous right to propose to a member of the Programme Council which the parliamentary majority did not accept, it even publicly divided it into that in a potential conflict of interest, which is why all those involved in this business, i.e. the television business, have rejected it as completely unfounded, now we have a situation where the parliamentary majority is proposing a man of their trust for a member of the Programme Council where the opposition behaves completely differently. It's mature, constructive and dignified. However, we have no illusions that at any time this will shake you up, that you will feel uncomfortable, that you will be embarrassed not to act this way when the election of members of the Programme Council who have the right to propose opposition was necessary, for practice shows that this type of scrupulus is not important to you. If we had acted differently and if you had acted differently from the parliamentary majority, today we would have a situation in which it is possible to complete the Programme Council even in this last part of their mandate, given the expected new Law on Croatian Broadcasting, whose adoption will also cause the end of the mandate of existing members of the Programme Council, i.e. the need to elect new members of the Programme Council or a completely new composition. But given the state of the Croatian radio television, which is not only the result of the so-called Restructure or layoff of nearly 400 associates, but it is also something more serious and it is directly in the management of the Croatian Radio and it is about censorship, we hope that the completion of the Programme Council will move the whole thing from the dead point of view and that members of the Programme Council who are only people now of the trust of the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament, because everyone else has resigned and withdrawn from the Programme Council, I hope that society will understand and accept the need for rapid response in order not to destroy the substance of Croatian television, which is the production of a quality and independent programme. The task of the programme council is now more than crystal clear and ultimate, to stop the process of preventing creativity, copyright independence and political independence on Croatian radio. There will be no more and there will be no more words about the conflict of political concepts in the Programme Council because the appointment of Mr Lovrić will complete the Programme Council only and exclusively to people of the ruling majority's trust. So now you have taken full responsibility for every second of the situation on Croatian TV and you absolutely need to carry the public burden of responsibility in the profiling and functioning of the public media because you wanted to. Well, when you wanted the whole nation now, there's a chance of seeing how it's going to work, when all people are literally all V.D. Director, other officials, all members of the program council of people of your trust. There are no more stories about general monitoring of the situation on Croatian TV, it is now quite clear that HDZ 1/1 is responsible not only for the state of organisation and the human rights situation on Croatian television but also for the programme, and this means for the recent cases of censorship that are happening and that are embarrassing to all of us. In this sense, the Club of HNS and HSU Representatives will stick to the gentlemen's agreement will be fair to the end in this business and will support the appointment of Mr Lovrić as a member of the Programme Council and will not forget, and will remind him every day that it is your obligation, public responsibility, gentlemen and colleagues from the ruling party and parties who support the Croatian Democratic Community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64373	Thank you. One correction, Madam Representative Ljubica Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64374	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's a colleague who said in a series of incorrect allegations one quote, "Because that's what you wanted." I suppose your colleague thought of the parliamentary majority in this House of Commons, but I must tell you, that's not true. We didn't want anything if we didn't want to just warn you that the opposition had the opportunity to elect its three members to the HRT Program Council why she didn't do it, I don't know. Therefore, nothing is happening either in the HRT Programme Council or on Croatian television because we wanted to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64375	SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64376	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This election comes somehow across the line, we're choosing a replacement for whoever left the Council last, and we haven't chosen a replacement for whoever left the Council first. This election by Mr. Petar Lovric as a member of the HRT Programme Council will be one confirmation of parliamentaryism in the Republic of Croatia but at the same time it will be one lesson in democracy. I'm not sure those who need to learn something from it, but at least the public will be able to understand the relationship and behaviour of the parliamentary majority towards the parliamentary minority in this House. Namely, the source testifies that a regulated relationship between the parliamentary majority and the parliamentary minority is being consummated. And this attitude of the majority towards the minority testifies to the degree of democracy in a society. We discussed here several days ago a report by the Attorney General on discrimination. We had opportunities to read in his report, his view that discrimination exists, and that it is aimed at supranational minorities. It's a worrying piece of information that doesn't honor society. And what is the attitude of the parliamentary majority towards the parliamentary minority in this House? What degree of democracy is witnessing exactly the selection of a member of the HRT Programme Council for the remainder of the mandate, an example. The relationship is otherwise governed by the existing Law on HRT, which says: "The members of the Programme Council will, after the invitation to tender, select, preferably, a consensus after the consent, and if this is not the case, the same number of members of the council will be chosen on the parliamentary minority proposal and on the parliamentary majority proposal." Is this law in this House respected? No, I don't. Does most of them recognize the right of minorities in this House or not? He doesn't admit it. I am particularly concerned that they are doing so together with HDZ and their coalition partners representing some minorities here in this House. Those representing minorities agree to abolish the right of a political minority, a parliamentary minority in this Viskom House. That's what particularly grieves and worries. The minority cannot vote on someone's right to vote because he is a minority. The majority is always responsible for the exercise of her right. E precisely the election of a member of the HRT Programme Council for the rest of the mandate, most have shown their irresponsibility, their indifference to democratic standards, its arrogant supremacy in which he says we have more hands, we will outvote you, it will be what we want, and we don't care about your minority rights, even though it has been laid down by law. This happened in an attempt to elect one member of the HRT Programme Council for the remainder of the mandate in the attempt to elect Mrs Vera Robic Škarica. As a reason for her failure to respect the will of the minority, she was suspected that she might, perhaps, if that were to happen and that, if this or that had happened, might possibly come into conflict of interest. That this concern for preventing conflicts of interest is an excuse, that it is in fact a false concern and hypocrisy shows the choice of this member of the HRT Programme Council Mr. Peter Lovrić. The match in his case didn't work. There were more candidates. One of the candidates was Mr. Zorislav Antun Petrovic. A prominent social fighter against conflicts of interest. And to the parliamentary majority who cares so much that there is no conflict of interest on HTR imagine not proposing Zorislav Antun Petrovic. It's Peter Lovric's idea. Who's Peter Lovric? We have a résumé. It's a person with an SSS, an electrician of high voltage plants. He worked at the INA O.K.I. as a matchmaker. I don't know exactly what the catcher is doing and why the catcher would be more or better qualified for a position in the HRT Programme Council, but a prominent social fighter against conflicts of interest, corruption and their evils. But it says here that he's been working to control the power supply of high-voltage power sources. It certainly makes him more qualified than Zorislav Antun Petrovic. Afterwards, he is the director and owner of the company "Service Services in Employment". And he says he's working with key clients and financial institutions on the job. You know, when someone makes key co-operation with financial institutions, then they might as well come into conflict of interest. These financial institutions, for example, are banks. As far as I can tell, they're advertising on HRT, buying a significant marketing space. And Petar Lovric, who with them realizes that he himself says essential key co-operation is proposed as a member of the programme council. This possible potential conflict of interest to the parliamentary majority does not bother. They don't mind that it's the ESS, they don't mind that the man is a matchmaker, but they don't mind Vera Robić Škarica, who was dealing with production issues, and production is certainly an area that is far less important for HRT than high voltage plants and some inclusion of these high voltage plants. It is certainly an area that is less important in the opinion of the parliamentary majority. How are we going to handle ourselves in such a case? We'll act in principle. Is the right of the parliamentary majority to propose a matchmaker? Yes, it is. We will vote for the suitor, we will vote for him, because this proposal reflects what HDZ and coalition partners who showed their care for the first minority in the choice of Vera Robic Škarica, think it's good. Well, if HDZ's good and coalition partners are good for us, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64377	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64378	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Stazic insists that the parliamentary majority discriminates against the parliamentary minority, which is not true. Mrs. Vera Robić Škarica, in our opinion, and I believe that we will prove it, was in a potential conflict of interest. Potential. So, if we talk about discrimination, 6 candidates are discriminated against, of which the opposition cannot choose 3 because they are not alike, I guess, who are also waiting for confirmation in this House. So, candidates who would represent you are being discriminated against. About 4.5 million Croats who cannot spend 7 kuna a day on Brijuni as two or three SDPs have been discriminated against and still ride in military ships. Probably 4.5 million will never ride in military boats for a swim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64379	HDZ Representatives' Club, Ms. solara Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64380	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Yes, Mr Petar Lovric has been proposed to be appointed a member of the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council for the rest of the term of office. Yes, Mr. Petar Lovric has medium professional equipment. However, how you can judge a man only because he has medium professional equipment. How we can afford to underestimate someone from this pay phone because they have medium professional equipment. So we in HDZ and that makes the difference between us obviously, we don't think that man is less valuable or less capable because he has medium professional equipment. What you did not say, and I will say, Mr Petar Lovric is proposed on the proposal of Croatia to other employers. The president is the Association of Small and Medium Entrepreneurs, actively participated in the Homeland War, promoter of active policies for the recruitment of Croatian defenders, president of the city organisation Zagreb, Association of Croatian volunteers, participant of all activities in the work with defence associations. Therefore, he has his qualifications and, yes, the parliamentary majority agreed to have him appointed as a member of the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council for the rest of the term of office. A colleague, Markovinović, corrected an incorrect quote. You know, we keep telling me on the board that we're in that movie forever because it keeps repeating the same thing. We warned of a possible conflict of interest. Of course, it is the right of a parliamentary minority to keep saying that the parliamentary majority is obstructing something. No, exactly the opposite. I will remind you of what he said and at the meeting of the committee of colleagues Stazic, so the parliamentary minority said it, we do not want to make fools of these people. We are talking about the remaining three members of the HRT Programme Council whose names will never come from the ranks of the parliamentary minority. So, so much for that. The parliamentary majority, heard here, is obstructing something. On the contrary, we are implementing a law that is still in force and so long as we do not pass the new Law on Croatian Television, yes, we will advocate that the law is implemented. Because in order to send a message from this high house to our citizens if we simply said no, we do not want to respect the law that is in force. So my question now is who should actually bear the burden. We've done our part of the work responsibly. Censorship, responsibility, that's what I heard, I'm sorry that my colleague Beus left, but when we say it for such a thing we must have arguments, and as far as I know none of us are working on Croatian broadcasting to say something from our own example. I will say that only two key tasks of public television in liberal democracy are to support the democratic system and rule of law, so the law that we are also calling upon and which is at the same time a guarantee of both its independence and its freedom, but whatever you want here to impute or say is not so. As for the members of the Programme Council and their task, they must represent and protect the public interest even if they have medium professional equipment. They protect the public interest as well as Mr Lovric, whom he has proposed, will be supported by the parliamentary majority. Conduct supervision, improve the programme so long as the Croatian Radio Television Act is still in force in 2003. So, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the decision to appoint a member of the Croatian Broadcasting Council for the rest of the term of office, Mr. Petar Lovric, and I hope that we will no longer have such differences between us, that they will be aware of whether someone has medium, high or higher professional equipment. What we're doing here, we discriminate on someone just because they don't have a higher or high-level expert gear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64381	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64382	I'm correcting this allegation of discrimination because this is not about discrimination. If you want to go to the O.R. to perform some surgery you need to finish the medicine, you need to specialize in surgery, you need to have some calling to access the patient. And for this job, some knowledge is required, and those knowledge is not irrelevant. And if someone deals with independent production as a topic, then it's certainly more qualified to be in the HRT Programme Council. If someone deals with human rights issues, the fight against corruption, the fight against conflicts of interest, all the forms of primitiveism and stupidity that are present in our society, then it is certainly more qualified to be in this council. There is no condition of high professional membership in this council, but there is common sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64383	Individual debate, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64384	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, since this is a common procedure based on the Law on Croatian Radio Television, which was conducted by this Committee headed by President Stazic. I don't think there's much to talk about because the law said it all. But as far as what the president of the Media Committee said is concerned. He said he was talking about a lesson about democracy. I would call that lesson that he was talking about frogcracies and no democracy because it doesn't matter what he's talking about here is that he's trying to impose some blame here on the parliamentary majority that respects the Law on Croatian Radio Television because he appoints a person in the Programme Council which is legally required this Parliament to do. On the other hand, he, as chairman of the board, violated the Law on Croatian Television and forced the Croatian Parliament to break the law, because the law does not foresee the possibility of wanting or not to appoint a replacement member, but must be appointed. And then he opens a tender for members of the Programme Council for that quota he's talking about to have a parliamentary minority right and then mocks those people. People answer, and he can't choose those people who answered and that he respects the law that these people are really appointed to this Programme Council. And then there's the question of what kind of democracy we're talking about. It's the frogocracy of fellow Stazic, the pure frogcrat you're spending. Then he says himself when you ask him on the board, well, why don't you pick people in the missing Program Council, why don't you put that on the Committee's session. Well, he says I won't do the parliamentary majority's wishes. Listen, if you wish, you can work or order on Sundays you have a possibility on the radio Krapina then there can be ordered according to the wishes of some songs etc. You have to work under the law here, and the team should know more about it as president of one committee. And normally, in the end, you don't know what, what way to disqualify this man of ours that we should propose here today to the Program Council, so you say, yes, but he has no interest in what you would like him to have an occupation. So you're underestimating the interest of a proposed member of the Program Council, and yet you're breaking the law and calling for a violation of the law. Because the law says exactly who members of the Council can be, so they can be citizens of the Republic of Croatia who represent various groups of Croatian societies, so young, retired, employers, trade unions and now that I don't read everything to you because you can read it yourself. So the law determines who may be, not who you would like and what occupation you would like to be in the Programme Council. Then you should have written this law and brought it in from your time to think differently, and then you should have shaped it differently here if you meant it the way you do today and underestimated that man that we today should choose to be a member of the Programme Council. But not by desire, but by law. So fellow Stazic, this qualification of yours as one of such a prominent member and president of the Media Committee was not really to be expected and you could have avoided it. But what about Mr. Lovric? It is certainly important to stress that this person will not be in conflict of interest as a member of the Programme Council in view of the tasks he does, and as he confirmed by his statement of lack of conflict of interest with the public notary, and he did not even say as the lady you so often mentions, he did not say that he had the possibility of some being in conflict of interest. And since you've grown so fond of Mr. Zorislav Antun Petrovic, I don't see why you're ignoring this man so much. So why don't you propose it to your quota? You've just had the opportunity to propose it in this quota, where you've made fun of these people, who've come to you in the open competition. Propose and then you don't have to impose on us now you're talking about democracy, then you impose on whom you would like the parliamentary majority to choose in this Programme Council. So this whole story is uncovered, and it's not because we wanted it that way, it's because you wanted it that way. If that's what you wanted today, the Program Council could have been filled. So, you wouldn't hear what my colleague Beus said that the actual parliamentary majority is the one who is, in principle, holding the greatest responsibility now because they are representatives only from that parliamentary majority. And the parliamentary majority only adheres to the law. He respects the Law on Croatian Radio Television. So the parliamentary majority doesn't want to play the law the way you play it. That's the whole point. Because the law doesn't say yes, it has to. So a new member must be elected to a place that no longer exists on any basis that is also defined in that law. So don't deceive the public, don't impose anyone's guilt here, but get to work as chairman of the board. Pick out those people you called for the contest, those people answered. Now name them at the next session. Here I expect you to come out with those names and we'll be at the next session of the Parliament and those names and fill out the entire Programme Council. I don't see why. Maybe you do. I believe you see, but about that, by that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64385	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64386	Three corrections. First, Zorislav Antun Petrovic cannot be proposed because he responded to the tender for Siniš Grgic. So we don't have any chance of a business proposal. You could have done it. Secondly, at the next meeting of the Media Committee, we will not be able to continue this election process by three members of the Council because we will have to make a decision, since the new law will already be voted on, that all existing members of the Council, including Petar Lovric, will cease their duties when new members of the Council are elected. And the third amendment. Everything I said as chairman of the Committee I spoke before this performance, and now I did not act as chairman of the Committee, but as a member of the SDP club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64387	Ms. Representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64388	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So here's something I'm going to say very briefly about the proposal for this decision, and at first I want to express my satisfaction that here today we are finally discussing the appointment of a member of the HRT Programme Council, so after the last competition that was launched by the Committee on Information, Information and Media, as Col. Stazic described in his opening statement in detail. Why do I express my pleasure? So here's just for the reason that already on several occasions in this assembly we all talk about it together, and we call for how the HRT Program Council is making it extremely difficult to work precisely because of what it does in so-called. I'm a piece of shit. So I'm glad that here we are, hopefully, going to choose at least one member of the HRT Programme Council, of course I expect the remaining members soon to be better and better quality for the work of the HRT Programme Council. I fully support the proposal of the Information Committee, for reasons I do not think it should be spoken of, Mr Petar Lovric meets all the conditions prescribed by the competition, so I see no reason why Mr Petar Lovric could not be elected. As my colleague Kunst said earlier, the Law on Croatian Radio Television did not say what kind of interest a member of the HRT Programme Council must have, but specified exactly who it might be, and Mr Petar Lovrić is a prominent member so proposed on the proposal of the Croatian Employers' Association, so the prominent member, the president of the Croatian Association of Small and Medium Entrepreneurs, a volunteer of the Homeland War, is very connected and further connected with Croatian defenders and cares for them and their families, so I don't think we really have a reason for Mr. Peter Lovrić not to choose. Finally, I would like to point out once again that I fully support this committee proposal, and I believe that we will soon choose the remaining members of the HRT Programme Council, so that the Programme Council can work in full composition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64389	Thank you. Mr. Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64390	As far as the debate is concerned, the public... She heard that she would probably plead in the elections because preventing the opposition from breaking up, to exercise its legal right in this House will be punished by the public... [[You don't understand.]] to those who did it. [[You don't understand.]] And I won't waste another word on that. And I wouldn't have reported for this notorna, to say the need to vote one member, if something strange hadn't happened that actually speaks in some way about the ambience in the democratic and in general how who understands the media. By being elected on the board, or proposed to be elected to the Parliament by Mr Lovric, otherwise the representative, if I understand very little entrepreneurship, has already performed on a show by Mrs. Dijana Culjak "Open". That same day. The law says directly that no member of the Programme Council can be elected in this way in this way, but surprisingly so many other members of the council were elected, never because they were elected or proposed not before the election on television, Mr Lovric had already been. Give me an answer who knows how to answer me, because I can't answer myself, what kind of ethics it is, what kind of journalistic professionalism it is, what kind of adherence to this same law so between Mr. Lovrić's proposal by the board, and his election in the Assembly, he gets a call on public television to do so. I wasn't watching, nor commenting on his performance, I turned away, because in there, how can I say grief I didn't want to watch. So it's a lack of any ethics, and it already shows that I'm not sure how this law is going to save and who it's going to save. This law should save public television, and I think maybe it can legally save us, and I just don't know who's gonna save her from it. And it's good to think about what comes next from the circumstances and what sanctions will be taken, whether or not they should be... , but in any case, at least an explanation of how it would be that someone who has been nominated by the Committee on Parliament, would be a member of the Programme Council, between this candidacy and the elections itself at the Parliament, where otherwise the law explicitly states that those elected to the Programme Council should not be involved in the programme of this, what actually includes these kinds of performances. [[You don't understand.]] I think this is all about political maturity and this House, and it all shows that we had to think about more when we were proposing our candidates. The opposition did not act as parliamentary majority, it allowed a choice, but now and after it did actually open a new round of doubts as to why such things happen, in terms of who and who, whether they are orders, whether it is and I mean in this category that now the Programme Council remains only in the possession of the parliamentary majority or not, and at the end of the matter of journalistic ethics and editorial responsibility that this kind of thing happens which is not a service to Mr Lovrić, is not a service, because I don't want to talk about it, I don't know, but I think the attack is actually an attack on the meaning of the law and the meaning of the conduct and the meaning of public television itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64391	Correction, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64392	Here, I must correct my colleague, Vujic, who says that the parliamentary majority did not allow the parliamentary minority to exercise its right, which is not true. The parliamentary minority could have had four members of the Programme Council, but they don't want it because those four members did not let God happen to have 8 people for one man and choose the director of HRT. So they deliberately obstructed the choice precisely because they had no confidence even in candidates who responded to the ad.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64393	Replica, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64394	I really don't know if Mr. Lovric showed up as a guest on Mrs. Diane Culjak's "Open" show because I didn't watch it. I'll take your word for it. But now I understand why Mr. Kunst said Peter Lovric is our candidate. Petar Lovric is our man, and that is exactly what the formulation said. Because that's when our man shows up on "Open" and that's right at Mrs. Diana Culjak's, and that's when our man gets a promotion on public television, which is really a precedent. And Mr. Vujic, in something you're right about, maybe it doesn't matter this choice, we'll be principled, but this choice and this behavior is about political maturity. That should be the main theme of this debate, political maturity.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64395	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64396	Well, we talked a lot about it today, but let's start a little bit of the law. This law has been on the exhale for a long time and is now exhaling, and it is good that a new law is coming, so the new law will probably solve all the problems that this law could no longer, and we can see why it couldn't because it couldn't because it simply couldn't form a whole Programme Council that was good when SDP had a significant impact on the members of the Programme Council and when the members of the Programme Council just did everything the SDP wanted. At one point, however, it happened that some members had left, others had come, and the Programme Council stopped being similar to that of the SDP. I'm having a little trouble talking about my fellow Stazic here because as chairman of the board, he's talking about discrimination, and as a representative of the club, he's talking about discrimination. Well, I don't know if that's two trails, two discriminations or one track and one discrimination, so let's just let my colleague forgive me for trying to put it here somehow. A colleague neatly set up the men on a professional basis, so he said that the mid-skiller wasn't responsible for this, and probably for nothing even though he was in a hurry, when we look, there's a lot of SDP MPs with medium professional equipment, so it would probably be his way, and they wouldn't actually be able to sit here with us. Although I think everyone's trying to represent their opinion in the right way. So if we're going to discuss discrimination it's discrimination number one. Second, make fun of the people who come from the economy. May it serve him honor. Finally he's so far from the economy, and so close to some circles that allow him to have a clear holiday and everything else to believe that, I realize him completely. Namely, the Program Council has six members at the moment. In order to choose a director, he needs to be 8. The SDP had and the opposition could have had four members. If instead, if Mrs. Škarica Robic had already been so controversial, they could have suggested someone else and these three others, so the council would have completed, there would have been 10, and here at this moment with this election of Mr. Lovrić and 11. Well, then there's a possibility that the council will choose someone as a director who's not like him, probably for the SDP. And that's why it's obstruction. Because of the six candidates I believe they are not similar to Mr. Stazic because most of them are defenders, most of them write texts that do not match Mr. Stazic, and that's why he doesn't really suggest anyone. Five candidates have been eliminated from 11. Of the other six, he obviously doesn't want to make fools out of them, apparently, so it's actually not supposed to, but he said it on the board, and he doesn't really want to see any of them because they simply don't match him even though they have and the opposition has a choice. Therefore, the council could have been almost completely complete with the Programme Council, could have chosen the director, but here is the culprit, not that from all portals and all newspapers he looks at us smiling, scrawny, disappointed, cheerful face of fellow Stazic who persistently defends some democracy. So, a false democracy because democracy exists, but not in his opinion because it's not democratic to choose someone with middle gear, it's not democratic to choose someone who was here as a defender, so we'd better not choose anyone. As far as I'm concerned, I have to repeat here, I don't know which time, Mrs. Vera Robic Skarica, who's to blame? Proposers. Proposers have written neatly that they are dissatisfied with the documentary programme on HRT, we will also document this in the Committee on Decision on the conflict of interest, and that the lady is actually a producer and finally, and it seems to me to be the director of documentary films. So if you add up 2 and 2 we're going to throw out what we're not comfortable with on the program, and we're going to put ours. But here, it's not a conflict of interest, it's a conflict of interest if someone has medium professional equipment and works in the economy and represents, say, small and medium enterprises. Well, I'm telling my colleagues, Stazic. So the obstruction was definitely not by the parliamentary majority. The parliamentary majority would very much like to raise their hands for both this 3 and possibly the fourth candidate if it had been proposed instead of Mrs Robic, but here is the opposition that did not want 4 members of the Programme Council to their extent, but here is what Mr Petrovic, who sees miracles, did not compete when three members of the Programme Council were asked for which he has the right to parliamentary minority rather than compete now. And now they're raising him to heaven, now he's the real one, that's the only man who's going to defend his interests probably don't know whose, and the parliamentary majority wanted to choose their candidate over Mr Grgic, but in a very parliamentary and democratic way, the board president interrupted the board. Because he knew that there was no more quorum and thus obstructed the earlier election, Mr. Lovric. Therefore, the Law is in force and will be applied under this Law until the new Law comes into force, that is, until members of the Council are elected. The program council. It can be a month, two months, at last no one guarantees that the law will be passed in time, that there will be no complaints in the contest and the like. Therefore, the Programme Council must do its job and let all those who have competed, these 11 candidates, or six who have been missed in the contest of thanks to the right parliamentary minority for not being elected to the programme council and who have been neatly competing in one legitimate contest, so let's see who is playing democracy, who is playing democracy, who is crying for democracy but democracy for which fellow Stazic, not to say on behalf of the Club, or the SDP, or on behalf of the Committee says, that democracy is long ago, long ago for us thank God.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64397	Thank you. One correction. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64398	Well, my colleague Markovanovic is not exactly aware that I interrupted the session to obstruct Peter Lovrić's choice but to break up because the quorum was missing. If there is no quorum then no decision can be made. And the quorum disappeared because Djakic came out of the Committee session and there was no quorum. I cannot put a decision to the vote if there is no quorum to be made, but as soon as the quorum is gathered at the session, I put that decision to the vote and voted for Peter Lovrić's election as well as my colleagues, we will do so at the plenary session because we respect the rules of democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64399	Replica Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64400	Thank you very much. A colleague, Markovinović, you have well noticed that this is about some double personality, because he actually told me, as the chairman of the Committee here at the pay phone, I will repeat, he said "there was no agreement between the representatives' clubs, so that they would suggest, think of Lovrić, the clubs of the parliamentary majority". And fellow Stazic as I belong to the parliamentary majority, then I say it is our candidate, to explain to you now, that you understand better, only if you have forgotten within those few minutes, what you have spoken as the chairman of the Committee and in relation to the representative of the Club and I don't know why you are angry, why the people of my colleague Stazic if the parliamentary majority respects the Law on Croatian Radio Television, and he deliberately plays it, spends state money to put out a press release for the competition and then plays people who report to the competition does not want to put them on board to choose them in the programme council. I think that's inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64401	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64402	The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64403	What I should need is a fellow Stazic when someone is replicating and in your position he is not replicating but is misrepresenting what I should turn my neck on, break it right now, and I should stop it right now and say enough. As it ends with you and everyone else, you've lifted a plate to hurt the Rules of Procedure, and I would clearly give it to you, in communication you've given up, which I'm supposed to lock on to my colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64404	Well, here's a thank you. I find it a little strange to be jealous of the SDP as far as the replicas are concerned, because they've led to perfection. Each of their members knew how to give 5.6 replicas, in the style that a dear colleague agreed with you, as you said it nicely, I am delighted, I will not be able to sleep because of that happiness, therefore, it is your style do not excelle. If we're talking about Mr. Stazic, he's the chairman of the Committee who now said the truth, that there was no quorum and there were six members of the parliamentary majority and he was seven, and his colleague Vujic was also present and the quorum wasn't just, they weren't the personalities that were being doubled, they were missing at the moment, they were seeing them, you can't actually count them, because they simply claim there weren't no quorum, so next time we count the quorum well and ask if it's you, if we can count you in a quorum, or if it's just some guy who showed it here. So, the untrue truth led precisely to the fact that the Programme Council is now vegetating, instead of working full steam to do everything that was needed to be done, Croatian Broadcasting. If the director could be chosen, Croatian broadcasting could already be arranged and better arranged, normally that any interim director of television does not have the power that the elected director would have, because we all expect public television to be everything that it has to be, and that is impossible in this situation, because every obstruction is very convenient especially if the parliamentary majority can be accused, and we will take pictures on that television and say that we have no rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64405	And a replica of Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64406	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You have rightly questioned the position expressed by a representative of the SDP Club, which concerns the professional preparation of candidate Lovric for the HRT Programme Council. In fact, I'm sure they don't mind, because if it bothers them, probably then their secretary-in-chief wouldn't have a medium professional standing, nor would they have a parliamentary representative, certainly if it didn't bother them because it wasn't a condition for them to choose a member of the Programme Council. And probably something else bothers them, they may be bothered that Mr. Lovric is the president of the Association of Volunteers Association, perhaps it bothers them or perhaps it is the Croatian Employers' Association, which is what they have proposed, which is what they have proposed before the Association of Small and Medium Entrepreneurs. Maybe that's what's bothering them? There's a lot of questions about what's bothering them? And it seems that it is indeed about the SDP wanting to describe the whole procedure for the election of members of the programme council to the truth, and in this context, this statement by counterpart Vujic, who said the opposition does not allow them to choose their members. That's not true. The three members who propose the opposition were proposed or submitted to the tender in accordance with the procedures. That why they do not want to propose those three members of the programming council is a question to discuss but it does not need to be blamed for the parliamentary majority, because it simply does not stand that the majority does not allow the opposition to choose their three representatives in the programme council. That's what this is about. So someone doesn't want to tell the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64407	Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64408	Well, here I think, otherwise the board was completely wrong. Namely, when a tender was opened for three members of the programme council elected by the opposition, it was to be written to be selected by the opposition. And then almost all the candidates wouldn't have written that they were defenders, that they were doing this or that, they could have known they didn't stand a chance. Just like they say, there's no way Mr. Lovric can do.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64409	Ms. Representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64410	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's my colleague Markovanovic when you were talking about these four remaining unnamed members of the HRT program council, I think you need to say just for the sake of the public here's to let people know. I, in my debate, pointed out that I expect how and we will do it quickly. But I'm afraid that's not going to happen, because at the previous meeting of the Information Committee, Stazic, he made it clear and loud that the parliamentary minority will not propose its candidates, because he does not want to make fools of people. So isn't this making people stupid because they expect the results of the competition and already two competitions that aren't completed, or maybe Mr. President of the Board of Staff Stazic enjoys praying to him, because it is also at the previous session when we discussed the additional report of the HRT Programme Council President most kindly asked all of us board members to finally resolve these competitions so that the programme council could work better. Now you know I can't finally decide what the parliamentary minority wants. Either people want to or they don't want to make fools or they enjoy really praying to them. I believe it would be better to choose these four members of the HRT Programme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64411	At 12.24, it was time to report a debate of 10 minutes. Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64412	I think the obstruction started early. Namely, colleagues, remember that you, as a board member, were unable to attend the committee for a few months for a simple reason because the chairman of the board had not convened the committee. Di bija, we know where he was, instructions from Rada Sherbedzija, and he probably also went to persuade him to become a member of the programming council, which would clearly be a respected member of the programming council who would actually exercise the will of fellow Stazić with his own reputation. In return, he did a little laundry on the Brijuni, cooked some cooking, baked some chubs and the rest we heard. And that was good. The man did his job, so with those seven kunas he paid a day in Brijuni plus this job, I think it's a fair shot job. The only problem is that he didn't work as a parliamentary representative here, which we don't see here for a few months every year, so God pays goes, and that's exactly the system against which both his colleagues and colleagues object most.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64413	House Vice-President Mrs. Zeljka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64414	Thank you very much. Although frankly speaking, this debate seems to be a waste of time, I still want to join it and say a few words and actually draw attention to what's important. She asked a colleague named Lukacic earlier, what does the parliamentary minority really want? So we just want laws to be implemented in this country. These laws can be good or bad, better and worse, but laws should be implemented in this country. In addition to the legislation, other than the force exercised in this case overvote, revote, interpretation of the law by the parliamentary majority, there is something called good law enforcement practice. This could also be applied to those elements in the law in which the Assembly itself participates in the application of the law. This good parliamentary practice has been in force for a number of years as far as this HRT Act is concerned, it has shown that under normal conditions there is a possibility that the parliamentary majority and the parliamentary minority together, in accordance with the provisions of the law, determine members of the HRT Council. and in this way it was established to call so-called the political balance or balance in reducing political influence, above all, on the Croatian Information Programmes. However, at one point and at a time when it has already started to prepare and pass a new law that was to be adapted to the different changes that occurred in the meantime, there is some incredible interpretation by the parliamentary majority, which is that the candidate who was to be elected to the HRT Council on the minority proposal is being obstructed by the majority because it is allegedly a potential conflict of interest. I don't know who else in this country can accept that interpretation, and so I think this debate is groundless, so in a potential conflict of interest absolutely every single person that comes forward to this contest, whether it's coming or not. What makes you think Mr. Lovric is not in a potential conflict of interest? A man's in business, he can open a production house tomorrow, isn't that a potential conflict of interest? Well, you can't eliminate the candidates because they're in a potential conflict of interest. The other thing I want to get out of this debate is to sort of fence myself out of it. It seems to me that in the heat of political outsmarting, or political debates, political discussions here in the Assembly have touched on the integrity of people who, whether they have received or have not received support at the plenary session of the Parliament or at a debate in the parliamentary committee, have been touched into their integrity. I don't think anyone has the right to play with personalities, the integrity of individuals who have put their name and last name and their reputation at their disposal to be based on the criteria chosen for members of the HRT Council. Both or both of them meet these criteria, and I think it was extremely inappropriate here some of the statements that were heard about both of them, which touch their integrity, which is what I personally do because it's also about people on the other hand we want to build. I don't think the Parliament is serving this and that our political bickering must not go over the back of people who have run from the civil sector or run for the HRT Council. And thirdly, the last thing that I came forward for this debate is that it is more than obvious that the majority in the Assembly is undermining the key interest of the application or functioning of the Law on HRT and the formation of the Council as the only body to play a major role, the only elected body on the part of which plays a major role in the functioning of HRT in all its segments, most of them have subordinated their political interests to this second interest, which is the formation of the Council and then the functioning of the Council. Have you not wondered what it is that happens to the members of the Council to resign like this, have you not asked what it is necessary to do to form this Council and begin to function, whatever it is. I personally don't think that this council has been working lately as well as what needs to be taken over by certain members of that council or all the individual members of that council, but the fact that without the Council on TV there is no supervision, that is, on Croatian broadcasting there is no control and that the responsibility for it is borne by the Parliament or by the majority of Parliament, who has therefore taken the right to interpret who it is, and who is not and imagine it in a potential conflict of interest. Meanwhile, my dear colleagues and colleagues, there is a serious bad situation on television. Big things happen, big things happen. We from the minority are concerned about this, we are doing our utmost to pass a new law as soon as possible, counting that this situation that you have caused by blocking the election of members of the Council, although in the new bill almost identically elects this Council and there is no guarantee that there will be no blockages again. It is obvious either from that attitude or indifference because the council does not function is obvious that you are in V.D. Administration or V.D. The office has put people you've given the task of doing their job. I want these people to do a good job, I want them to get rid of political pressure, I want them to give up the practice that they almost obviously prefer certain politicians with whom they are friendly. It is not always just about politicians from the ruling majority, sometimes it is about completely inefficient parties without any parliamentary representative, but it is definitely about people who sit and prefer their friends in the editorial office and in the administration, giving them television terms and minutes that are by no means relevant to them, not by the influence or by the voter's support. If that's what your dear colleagues do for you, it's an honor. You've probably been marketing for your influences, too. And we are left in the minority only to fight as soon as possible for the adoption of a new law, for as high-quality provisions in this law as possible, for the formation of a new Council and hope for responsible people from reputation, not from the trust of this or that political option which will persist, respecting real problems and circumstances, help to preserve the status of public television and public radio and thus set up a defence of the spine, commercialisation and the destruction of society in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64415	Thank you. Correction, Ms. Representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64416	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I am to correct two incorrect allegations by my colleague Antunovic. I don't know what time I have to say it, but it's not true and you're wrong to say that the parliamentary majority has obstructed the choice of Vera Robic Škarica. It wasn't an obstruction, it was just normal and we had to notice that the lady was in a potential conflict of interest. The other thing is, it's also not true when you say you're seriously concerned about such a bad condition on HRT. Well, that's not true, because if you were seriously concerned then we'd already have these four members of the HRT Programme Council, so we would have chosen them, and you as a concerned parliamentary minority would have already proposed them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64417	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64418	Well, the colleague incorrectly states that actually the parliamentary majority, for political reasons, is actually blocking the Council's work, which is not true. The council had 10 members without Mrs. Robic, without Mr. Grgic nine members. For the selection of directors, there were enough 8 members, and then just for political reasons, the SDP pulls three members of the Council to whom they are, who have been chosen by their proposal just so that there is no chance that the selection of directors would not change their mind or listen, I do not know the likely suggestions of a parliamentary minority. So it's purely political reasons. And as far as democracy is concerned, it is incorrect that there is actually no democracy, because the fact is that three members of the Programme Council have resigned just because those 6 chose someone else rather than their own.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64419	Madam representative of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64420	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, I'm going to correct the incorrect quote of a colleague who said we want the laws to be implemented and we're doing our best to get the law passed. So the concerns that are expressed here again will be repeated if you need to be 150 times because, as you say, you keep turning the saw upside down. So, if so many members of the parliamentary minority were concerned, they could propose four members and then prove they want the laws implemented. And I'm glad that colleague Antunovic is being fenced, obviously from my right side of the assembly, and she has repeated it several times and I'm glad that she disagrees with everything her colleagues obviously said in the debate, so here's at least some hope that the laws will respect, that there will be no discrimination in this House and that reason will prevail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64421	Replicas Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64422	Well, colleague Antunovic, anyway, I was glad to hear from you when you said no one had the right to make fun of the citizens and that you're being held up. But I will remind you that you are also a member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media and that you, just as a member of that political echelon, should act on your president. Because if he's making fun of, if he's obstructing and he doesn't want to choose people, and he's calling for a contest that people are reporting to the Program Council, then who's making fun of? And you are angry here if the parliamentary majority respects the law, and so is Mr Lovrić, for a short time, choosing in the Programme Council. Secondly, you are concerned with the state of Croatian television, so you simply obstruct that your members in the Programme Council contribute to the fact that this Croatian television is in what kind of light you would like it to be. This way, what are you doing? You work or you keep quiet here, you don't warn your colleague, you don't criticize, I don't know what. Here you show it as if you're building on it, and in principle who you're making fun of and who you're making fools of. Well, it's made up of fools just out of those people who responded to the contest, giving their life-savings. And what else? They spent money on a public notary because they made statements that they weren't in conflict of interest. On the other hand, money from the state budget was spent, which was announced in the media for the competition. So who's making fun of these citizens? You can fence all you want. But I would ask you to act on your party member, the chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64423	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64424	Dear colleague, you should know that we are all free to speak our way but that we are all bound to obey the law. And that's why when you make some kind of verbal mistake for me or if I do it or my colleague or anyone from my club, it's going to be less of a cause for concern either for warnings or for anything else. Let the citizens judge about it, and they will judge both about you and about us. However, both you and I and all of us together did or did not make verbal mistakes, insulted or not insulted those who do not deserve it, we are obliged to obey the law. And that's the whole point of it. And I don't think I should tell you any more about how ridiculous and immaterial your insistence on a potential conflict of interest is. I have shown you on this final example that we are all or that all candidates, all elected members in a potential conflict of interest, and that is simply a deliberate, conscious blocking of the application of the law, obstructing the election of members of the Council, and in no other way is it understood in the public or you can explain it differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64425	Does the Proposer want a representative? I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64426	We move to the Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Programme Council of the Croatian Radio Television for the rest of the term of office. Proposer of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The debate is closed. I would like to vote on the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Croatian Broadcasting Council for the remainder of the term of office. Let's please get involved and vote on the motion for a decision. The result? This proposal for a designation decision was adopted by a majority of 105 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and nothing against. In the text proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64427	We're moving on to the next point. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 639. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, European Integration, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Interior Ministry Ivica Buconjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64428	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before you is the proposal to amend and supplement the Road Safety Act. I will say at first that we propose that the law goes into regular procedure in two readings, because in discussions on individual committees there are certain misunderstandings, so that these misunderstandings are resolved in the most qualitative way we agree that the law goes into two readings. I will only try to briefly explain the main reasons and motives for proposing amendments to the Road Safety Act and some of the solutions proposed or proposed changes. In fact, there are several groups of reasons why we, or the government, have proposed amendments and additions to the existing Road Traffic Safety Act of 2008. One reason is that certain norms and provisions have proved insufficiently clear and precise in the existing law that have caused certain concerns in application, so that certain articles of the existing law have been proposed and amended in a way that makes them clearer and more precise, so that police officers have fewer problems in handling them, so that citizens, i.e. those involved in transport, also know that the provisions of the law will apply to them and that the matter is more clearly arranged. There have been certain shortcomings in certain articles of the law, so we have also shown ourselves during the application, and we have decided to remove these shortcomings, so that the law is simple, applicable and without inadequacy. We have also decided to take into account the observations and proposals of units of local self-government, and that is, above all, with regard to the management of the parking problem, in terms of the delivery of data on vehicle owners who are in breach, and as regards the punishment of vehicle owners who park their vehicles in spite of bans in unauthorized places, especially in places where the hydrants are, where the fire passages are and where other places that prevent emergency services from being handled in case of need. We have also proposed certain amendments and, in order to comply with the Directives and the acquis of the European Union, this applies primarily to categories, namely in the existing law of the category of driving licences, were not fully in line with the Directive and the acquis, and due to the duration, i.e. the validity of an international driver's licence was prescribed 5, and according to international directives, the international driver's licence may be valid for a maximum of 3 years. Then it is also one of the major changes that I would say is the provision of Article 199, which refers to conditional punishment, i.e. punishment for driving a floor, with a concentration of alcohol of up to 0,5 grams per kilogram. In the light of the decision of the Constitutional Court, such a provision of the law has been put out of effect, and it has been said that there can be no penalties for parole or for conduct that are otherwise not in itself punishable, and therefore we have proposed Article 21 amending Article 199 that the unconditional management of a vehicle with a concentration of up to 0,5 grams per kilogram is allowed and that this concentration will not be punishable in respect of any other infringements. We also tried to regulate the work of auto school more flexiblely, and above all on the initiative and encouragement of the Croatian Employers' Association, which suggested that certain changes be made in order to facilitate the work of auto-schools in this recession time, i.e. so that auto-schools do not come into business problems because of perhaps too high criteria. So here are five main groups of reasons why we have decided to propose amendments to the Road Safety Act. I hope you will make your views known on the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. And I would just say that the current situation on Croatian roads is better than ever, as shown by statistics. I'll say only the main indicators, the number of traffic accidents and the number of fatalities. So we had the total number of accidents in 2010, or 2009 decreased by 16%, i.e. we had 24 thousand 213 car accidents in 2009, in 2010. 20 thousand 159, we have a 22% reduction on the victims, with the number of accidents killed by 14.6%, with 22% injured, with material damage by 14%. And what I think is most important in all this is the number of people killed in traffic on Croatian roads. For many years, we have witnessed that Croatian roads were almost battlefields on average from 14.2 to 14.5 inhabitants per 100,000 inhabitants, far above the European average, and the Croatian government's declared goal that the number of deaths should be reduced to 10 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants. So on today 2008, the deaths in traffic were 614, 2009 was 508, and on today this year, 386 people were killed, which is if we compare the number of deaths from 2010 to 2008, a reduction of 228 deaths, so 228 human lives were saved compared to 2008, down from 37%. We hope that during December of the last remaining month we will be able to maintain these trends and I believe that the Republic of Croatia will finally achieve the declared goal of the national road safety programme, which is less than 10 people killed per 100,000 people, and since the new national road safety programme for the next 5 years, I believe that these results, which have been achieved by the basis of this national programme, are based on this law and based primarily on the work of police officers, will continue to remain and move towards achieving Europe's declared 7 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants. Here, I say, since we have seen the discussions on certain committees of some doubts about individual solutions, we agree that the law goes into another reading, I believe that these are only two provisions of two or three articles that can be changed relatively quickly and simply in line with the other articles and the purpose of the legislator, and that in the second reading we will get a real law that will ensure that we go towards that goal, which is the fewer fatalities on the roads, and the fewer traffic accidents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64429	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Dear Representative Slavko Linić, on behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. Here you go, board president.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64430	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary and Associate, colleagues and colleagues. At its 55th session, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act. The opening statement was given by a representative of the applicant who said that during the application of the Road Safety Act, the need for certain amendments and additions to this law was established in order to regulate road traffic issues more precisely and in more detail. And all of this would be to increase road safety. Also, in order to bring the constitutional decision in line with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 7 April this year, a new way of regulating and managing a vehicle under the influence of alcohol is proposed. It is also necessary to comply with Directive 126/2006 EC, which proposes the introduction of a new D1 category of vehicle. The debate estimated that the new concept of a number of laws, which would single out and regulate individual areas which are now defined by the Road Safety Act, would take over all obligations and responsibilities of a particular law, i.e. those responsible other than the Ministry of the Interior, would make other entities. It is also suspected that only an increase in the amount of fines will have a greater effect in reducing the number of traffic offences and that maybe penalties could be defined by some other criterion, property, censorship, cumulative punishment and the like. The concern has been expressed that these new increased sentences, unfortunately, the judiciary will be additionally burdened in its work. The debate welcomes the results and features of the current application of the Road Safety Act. What is important, the Committee found that any reduction of established standards in the law would be unacceptable. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In addition, given the proposed changes in terms of the higher powers that local self-government units have, the problem has been highlighted that local self-government units, which are traffic directors, do not have the authority to determine the identity of the perpetrators of the offence and that this is the case when police officers take place. The members of the Committee shall be of the opinion that it is necessary to propose amendments to the provisions of Article 202(1) and (2) of point 4 and Article 222(3) of this Act. So on behalf of the Committee, we also proposed certain texts that can be followed in further work on the law by the proposings. In Article 202(2), the proposal is that, in working relation to certain or indefinite times, at least one B-category instructor in full-time and the required number of operating driving instructors for categories of vehicles for which auto-schools have solutions for the successful achievement of the training programme and training plan. In accordance with Article 202, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: In this case, vehicle B of category B must be a private car with 4 or 5 doors with at least 2 airbags, ABS brake system and up to 10 years of vehicle age A1, A2, A and AM category must be up to 12 years old and vehicles C1, C1, D1 and D category must be with ABS braking system up to 15 years old. The trailers, except for the B+E category, shall be with the ABS braking system. We also proposed the text of Article 229(3) to add, in Article 229 beyond the words of the officials, the words or the official person of the units of local self-government which carry out the tasks referred to in Article 5(4) of this Act. In view of the proposals and observations made by the Committee, it considered that it is best to go to regular proceedings after agreeing with the Proposer. Next, we propose conclusions: a proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act with a final proposal for a law will be held in the first reading, the amendment and addition of the Road Safety Act and any objections and proposals submitted in the debate will be adopted by the Proposer in the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64431	Thank you. Would the other representatives of the board like to take their word? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the IDS Club, distinguished representative Damir Cain, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64432	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. So here I'm going with this introduction where on the side, it doesn't literally say that statistics in 2009 compared to 2008, there's a decrease in the total number of traffic accidents by 5.8%, a reduction in the total number of injured persons by 2.6%, while the total number of deaths is smaller by as much as 17.5% compared to 116%, or by 116 people. Also, comparing statistics for the first 6 months of 2010 with the same period of 2009 is seen by further reducing the total number of traffic accidents by 16.7%, reducing the total number of injured by 23.1% and reducing the total number of deaths by 14.5% and 34 people, respectively. Now, the normal question is, what contributes to that? Does that contribute to the dominant work of the police? I categorically say no. Far less or far more contribute to this, let's say they contribute a new mile of highways and above all recessions. I mean here, above all, at the price of gasoline, on the standard of our citizens who, unfortunately, are getting less and less driven, most importantly, is the most eloquent proof of the revenue from the fees in the state budget. It may seem absurd at first glance, but indeed that is how many gentlemen have dropped the charge on the highways in 2010 compared to 2009. She must have fallen by, like, 15 or maybe 20%. If that's how it was in the season, then think about what it's like today. So people drive less, the less they drive, the less they're at risk. When you drive along the road from Rijeka to Zagreb, or from Zagreb to Split, the same thing is on the Istrian Ipsion, our roads are almost empty, not counting on how many 8 or 10 weekends in the 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th months. On our highways there is almost no one, the interceptors themselves, how many trucks in 24 hours, for example, pass the most frequent road from Rijeka to Zagreb, towards the Hungarian border and vice versa. I claim it goes as far as the truck passes through Venice in 30 minutes, and perhaps less, and it also says very well where the Croatian economy is. Those who are a little bit outside, less or less if it were Istria or out of Istria against traffic, should only one day go no further than Palmano and there for 30 minutes count trucks in one direction from Udin towards Venice and vice versa and simply confirm that my thesis. One word until we understand what the Germans, the Italians have long known that the development is based on the speed of turning the wheels of their trucks in Croatia will not be better. That's why I think this law should go to one serious audit. Why? Because this law dramatically increases penalties and I keep asking myself how long it will be a practice in this country to complete each intervention with new higher penalties. Well, not everything in this country can be solved only by punishment. It is an expression of the loss of feeling for the measure and the moment at which citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia live at the moment. It's as if we simply don't want to understand the opportunities our citizens live in, as if some don't know the circumstances that simply exist in this country today. And so much I really advocate that those sanctions be reduced and equally so that few interceptors park in their garages. To begin with, let the police concentrate on attempted assassination, arson, and God knows how many or God knows how many moments it doesn't work out. I used to quote car accidents, there are fewer killed and injured, it is certainly for every praise, however, let me quote Article 12 here "Bike or moped driver, and a driver of a lighter four-cycle without a protective cabin and four-cycle without a safety cabin, as well as persons who drive these vehicles must wear a prescribed type-approved and neatly attached safety helmet while driving on the road on a road under 16 years of age". The penalty is 1,000 and 300 kuna, respectively. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "The pedestrian that moves by foot is due by night and by day in the event of reduced visibility to be marked by some source of light or reflective material," it is absolutely fine, but then again comes a fine where the individual will be punished with 300 kuna if that person does not act in such a way. Article 21 well here is about alcohol, absolutely that, drunk people should be punished, I also hope drugged, but these fines 1,000 to 3000 kuna, so 3 to 5000 kuna, 5 to 15 000 kuna, so on and so forth, I don't think individuals simply have a measure when they prescribe it. I think I will once again say that they are too easily increasing the fines, the penalties should be adapted to the trends of Croatian society, if the wages go down, clearly they will not always go down, but some such logic should follow if pensions go down, maybe penalties could be corrected, if all is collected, maybe the penalties should be involved, if people are left without a job, then I guess that feeling should be social in some way, like Mr Bandic has. One word should measure everything. Without it, there is neither justice nor social, nor a safe state, and therefore I am clearly pushing for these penalties to be as small as possible, and the problem with us is that we have more penalties in general than those in the European Union. So let me quote this for a speed of over 20 km in settlements, in Austria it is charged with 70 euros, over 50 km outside the settlement 2180 euros, going through red to 70 euros, parking 21 to 90 euros, and at these prices Austria is the most similar to Croatia, all other countries in the Ministry or in the Assembly, however, have lower penalties than the Republic of Croatia. Okay, one Belgium for over 20 km in the settlement means 150 euros over 50 means the euro has a starting point of 250, going through the red 150, parking to 50 euros, one France here, over 20 km in the settlement 135 euros, over 50 1500, going through the red from 90, etc. So one word of punishment in Europe is about the same in these most developed countries, if not lower in the Republic of Croatia. What it looks like in Croatia, Article 53 of our Road Safety Act means "on the road in the settlement driver must not move at a speed greater than 50 km per hour", I agree absolutely, but if that happens. Now look at the sanctions, fines of 5 to 15 thousand kuna or prisons of up to 60 days, will be fined for this violation by a driver driving by car at a speed of more than 50 km. With a fine of 2 thousand kunas if someone drives between 30 and 50 km per hour, it means faster, with a fine of a thousand kunas if they drive from 20 to 30 km per hour, etc. "At the road outside the village, the driver must not drive more than the speed allowed by a traffic sign, and not more than 130 km on the highway, 110 on the road intended exclusively for the transport of motor vehicles, 98 km on the other roads." So a fine of 3 thousand to 7 thousand will be fined for a violation of a driver who drives 50 km faster on the highway, with a fine of a thousand kuna if he drives someone 30 to 50 km, 500 kn if he drives from 10 to 30 km. And so I could actually quote all these provisions, and I think at this point in some way and when it comes to our penalties or sanctions should have a measure. So, I think it's good that the law goes into second reading so that maybe some more criminal provisions are corrected from that famous road traffic safety law, because as time moves away, it's gonna be harder and harder to pay those penalties. No one normally advocates that someone commits traffic violations, but let's tell me 10 to 15 or 20 kilometers if you drive faster, so it's almost a matter of statistical error on that interceptor. Okay, maybe that doesn't suit the truth joke aside. But yet one kind of tolerance and measure should be in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64433	Thank you. I'd just like to say that I have to intervene so much that this isn't the IRS. This is a law that, when a person commits an offence, you or any other traffic participant must be sanctioned. Therefore, it is not a social category and that if pensions go down they need to go sanctions down, so we encourage that as many people as practically commits a violation and endangers themselves and others in traffic. We are moving forward with the debate, so on behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative Ivan Božovic is on behalf of the HDZ club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64434	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, fellow Members and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act with the Final Proposal of the Law. Road safety has undoubtedly become part of the global policy of all countries, especially Western European countries. The Republic of Croatia as a transition country, but also a country that, according to its historical, political, economic and cultural orientation, belongs to the Western European geotransport area. Already at the beginning of its independence and international recognition, she learned the importance of road safety and began implementing measures aimed at reducing the number and consequences of traffic accidents. Road safety is very important because it includes almost the entire population, and each injured or killed person in traffic accidents is a great loss not only for her family but also for the wider community. We know that there are three basic road safety factors, which are man, driving the road. It is certainly the greatest role and responsibility of a man because he participates directly in transport as a participant directly as a projector and road builder and as a state, as a vehicle constructor and as one who repairs them, as the one who adopts road safety laws and takes care of their application and implementation or the one who conducts medical examinations that raises and educates traffic participants etc. The road safety law entered into force on 17 June 2008, and its application in the right sense of the word may only be considered at the beginning of 2009 after the adoption of almost all implementing rules necessary for its application. The main indicators of road safety are certainly the total number of traffic accidents, the number of injured persons and, in particular, the number of people killed. Comparing the data on the number of traffic accidents and the number of injured and the number of people killed in traffic accidents in 2009 with 2008 is a significant shift in the positive direction that can certainly be prescribed to the Road Safety Act of the National No. 67/2008. Statistical data in 2009 compared to 2008 show a decrease in the total number of traffic accidents by 5.8%, a decrease in the total number of injured persons by 2.6%, while the total number of deaths was lower by 17.5% and 116, respectively. It is also important to note the number of traffic accidents caused by young drivers, persons 16 to 24 years of age. In addition to reducing the absolute number of traffic accidents and casualties in 2009 it is also important to reduce the share of this age group in all traffic accidents and casualties. Unfortunately, in 2009, the number of children in car accidents increased. The 4 children died more than 23.6%, respectively, and the severely injured children were more than 5.5%. Children mostly suffered as passengers in vehicles managed by their parents and should be stressed that of the 14 children killed as passengers, 8 of them were foreign citizens. It should certainly be noted that foreign citizens participated in almost 16% of car accidents with deceased persons in 2009. It is the same data if we observe the total number of accidents, and 10.4% of those killed are foreign citizens. It concerns the fact that out of the total number of fatalities involved in car accidents, 341 or 62% died at the scene, 58 or 10.6% in transport to a health institution, and 149 or 27.2% in the time to 30 days from the car accident. This information shows that it is necessary to organise better the provision of the necessary first aid and transport of injured persons to adequate health institutions. The relevant Road Safety Act lays down detailed conditions for training candidates for drivers and conditions that must be met by persons performing the training of candidates for drivers, with provisions on the professional preparation required in accordance with the provisions of the Law on academic and professional names and academic degrees. The requirements of professional training of driving instructors, lecturers, professional car school leaders, authorised supervisors and authorised interrogators are also prescribed. Determination of the minimum price of the driving instructor's hours and lecturers of traffic regulations and rules certainly increases the quality of candidate education and contributes significantly to road safety in the long term. Comparing the statistics for the first six months of 2010 with the same period of 2009 there was a further reduction in the total number of traffic accidents by 16.7%, a reduction in the total number of deaths by 14.5% and 34 people respectively. During the application of the Road Safety Act, the need for certain amendments and additions to the law has been established in order to further regulate road traffic developments and to contribute to further increasing road safety. Thus, the amendments and additions of the Law seek to prescribe a way of supplying the necessary information on vehicle owners to the unit of local self-government or legal persons designated by it or to traffic directors. In order to carry out road safety operations which are also entrusted to them, the Law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act seeks to fill the legal gaps that exist now and to regulate the relations primarily in the field of vehicle registration and check-out, but also parking, the exclusion of drivers from traffic and the conditions which must satisfy persons performing the tasks of an authorised interrogator, teaching course Transport regulations and safety rules and vehicle management. The amendments are also proposed in the provisions laying down specific restrictions that young drivers are subject to to in order to avoid misunderstandings relating to the issue of the sameness of these restrictions with the restrictions which have been subject to so-called ‘subsistence’. Drivers beginners. In accordance with the provisions of the Road Safety Act, "National Journal" No. 105/2004, but also keeping pace with technological development and increasing the average power of the passenger car engine, changes requiring a higher level of responsibility are proposed in the part of the law that regulates the movement of pedestrians and cyclists. The use of a safety helmet and reflective vest will significantly contribute to increasing the safety level of these road users. I'm going to mention a few of the proposed articles. In Article 49(4), a new paragraph 5 is added, which reads as follows: A fine of between 5000 and 15000 kuna or a prison of up to 60 bottoms will be punishable for a violation of a driver on a highway, a fast road or road intended exclusively for the transport of motor vehicles by a belt intended for the transport of a vehicle from the opposite direction, i.e. in the opposite or prohibited direction. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The driver of motorcycles or mopeds and the driver of a light four-cycle without a safety-belt and four-cycle without a safety-belt as well as the persons driving on those vehicles shall wear the prescribed type-approval and neatly attached safety helmet while driving on the road on the head. The safety helmet during the ride on the road on the head must be worn by bicycle drivers under 16 years of age. Article 2 of the same article will punish the driver of motorcycles, mopeds, light four-cycles without a protective cabin and four-cycles without a protective cabin, as well as the person carrying on those vehicles if... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, in paragraph 3 of the fine amounting to 300 kuna, the driver of a bicycle will be punished for failure if he acts contrary to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article. In order to comply with the Directive of the European Community 126/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council, it is proposed to introduce a new category D1 and D1+E of the vehicle category, as well as the retegorisation of four cycles... the change in the obligation to carry out technical checks for certain types of vehicle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By amending Article 221(3), the person who has passed the B-category test shall not operate a personal vehicle whose engine power exceeds 75 kilowatts shall be replaced by the words: a passenger car whose engine power exceeds 80 kilowatts. In Article 193(2), the words of the motor vehicle’s driver shall be added to the following words, before being placed on the market, to clean out frozen windscreens and snow on the vehicle with a fine of 700 kuna, for the offence of the driver if the vehicle is operated contrary to the provisions of this Article. Article 199 of the applicable Road Safety Act is also amended and, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 7 April 2010, the concentration of alcohol that certain categories of drivers may have. Thus, for drivers of professional categories C, 1, C1+E, C+E, D1, D1+E, D+E and H, i.e. young drivers and drivers of vehicle B categories whose vehicle management is basic interest, taxi drivers, emergency drivers, company drivers and state authorities etc. at a time when they perform these tasks prescribed that they must not have alcohol in their blood at all or have drugs or medicines that are indicated not to be used during driving or for a period of time prior to driving. Other drivers are prescribed not to operate a vehicle on the road or start driving a vehicle if they have drugs or medicines in their body that are indicated not to be used during driving or for a certain time before driving, or if they have alcohol in their blood above 0.50 g/kg, i.e. the appropriate amount of milligram in a litre of exhaled air. Comparing statistics for the first 10 months of this year with the same time period last year, the number of traffic accidents with killed persons caused by young drivers decreased by 48% and the reduction in deaths was by 43.1% and 44 people respectively. We believe that this positive shift is also due to the achieved standard of improving the quality of training of candidates for motor-school drivers and carrying out driving exams, which also highlights the majority of auto-schools carried out at expert consultations with auto-school representatives and European Commission delegations as part of a visit to the Republic of Croatia with a view to verifying compliance with the conditions for issuing driving licences and minimum standards for the implementation of driving exams and training of candidates for drivers as a prerequisite for closing Chapter 14. Traffic policy. We propose that, for a second reading, the proposed Article 202 paragraph 1 of points 2 and 4 be considered and that a better quality proposal be found to facilitate the operation of auto-schools, especially when replacing vehicles, maintain the standard of working conditions in the professional, organisational, material and personnel view, and allow further trends in traffic safety growth and quality of the driver training process. In the belief that positive trends in road safety will continue in the future and that the goal set in the National Road Safety Programme of the Republic of Croatia 10 people killed to 100,000 MPs and representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will be achieved, support the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64435	Thank you very much. We'll have another debate. It is the club of HSS respected representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64436	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, I'll try to be as short as possible, given that here and the break is approaching. These amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act want to further contribute to increasing road safety in line with the security policy developed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Ministry of Internal Affairs and other relevant bodies. So far, the application of the law suggests that interventions in the law have yielded positive effects on road safety. In the opening statement, the applicant also provided statistics indicating a significant shift in the positive direction. I'm not going to read these statistics now, we've heard them already in the opening explanation of the secretary of state, but also in the name of the clubs. It is commendable, in any case, that he suffers far fewer people than he has suffered before. The fact is that in the conditions of high traffic density, the risk of traffic accidents is increased, both in relation to indirect and direct losses of overall economic development. Traffic suffering other than major material damage is irreparably caused by the loss of human lives. In general, therefore, measures are increasingly being taken in the world to reduce the negative trends in traffic loss. The Republic of Croatia also seeks to act preventively to combat road accident trends, and for several years back began implementing measures aimed at reducing the number and consequences of traffic accidents. It is normal that without systematic and continuous implementation measures there are no expected results. The implementation of these measures also adopts directives and guidelines which oblige the Member States of the European Union to increase road safety. The HSS representative club welcomes the efforts of the relevant authorities and institutions that have contributed to the reduction of traffic accidents over the past period. We believe that these amendments and additions to the law contain many good solutions. I'll list only a few of them. Generally I think we all agree the law is stricter. We've heard of punishments here and here, but I don't think there's any other way to gain discipline among drivers. It regulates the movement of pedestrians and cyclists, the use of a protective helmet, reflective vest, which we think will significantly contribute to increasing the safety level of all road users. Infringement responsibilities shall be extended to the driver who stops or parks a vehicle which would endanger the safety of other road users or pose a disturbance to normal traffic flow or pedestrian movement. Provisions on stopping and parking of vehicles shall be provided. A fine shall be prescribed for drivers who do not clean frozen windscreens and snow on the vehicle when referenced. That's what we're witnessing here these days. It's snowing, but the law is only in the first reading, and we can see that our fellow citizens, drivers, are quite observant of it, obviously, from the fear of great punishments, and some other provisions. In addition to the fact that we generally welcome the amendment and the addition of the existing law, we would also like to point out some open questions that have appeared in public these days as soon as it is known that this law is going into procedure. Any offer of a penalty for flashing, i.e. the glare we like to say in driving with the right to cause and caused public disfavor. According to HSS's knowledge, unnecessary giving of light signals is punishable in most European countries, but this refers to nervous drowsiness when someone driving behind you warns you that you are too slow or move away. Of course, light signals are not to be misused, but we must also say that there is a thin thread between the allowed or unauthorised and that in every court, the police would hardly prove that the driver was wrong in that case. We fear that many light signals would stop using even when they can eventually save someone else's life. I'd like to find the latest example that someone in the City Hall was flashing the driver before he ran into a beaten young man left on the road. We all know how it ended. The light signals are extremely useful, and therefore they are installed in each car because it enables the driver to be effectively alerted to danger. For example, a dive, fire an object from a vehicle, an accident on the road and something like that. We are also afraid that an increase in the management of a motor vehicle from 75 to 80 kilowatts is not going to meet young drivers but more cars, or the car industry. We therefore believe that there should be a limit of self-managing of motor vehicles up to 75 kilowatts for young drivers, but they should also be given the ability to drive up to 100, maybe 100 kilowatts accompanied by an experienced driver, for example with ten years of driving experience or more. The reason we see why not every family can have two or more cars. And part of the beginners in traffic when they pass the driver's license don't drive a motor vehicle for a few years until they hire themselves and buy a car themselves, so they stay inexperienced drivers rarely beginners at the age of 30 and over. We think that it should be possible for all of us to gradually engage in transport in accordance with their capabilities. We also consider it necessary to give a particularly prominent warning to the representatives of local self-government units that we have already heard about today that the Road Safety Act is allowed to carry out tasks of supervision of improperly stopped and parked vehicles, traffic management, and the relocating of improperly stopped and parked vehicles which, in practice, face a major problem in determining the identity of the perpetrator of the offence. In particular, local self-government units responsible for carrying out those tasks are traffic directors. When they find a vehicle that is improperly stopped or parked on the windscreen, they leave a notice of a breach with a payment card. If a certain fine is not paid within the time limit, it shall request the vehicle owner information from the Ministry of the Interior and issue a mandatory infringement order against the owner of the vehicle and not against the driver who managed the same vehicle at the time of the offence. If the vehicle owner submits a timely complaint, he claims that he did not operate the vehicle, i.e. that he has not committed an offence, a complete file shall be sent to the competent Court of Justice, which shall most often require the completion of a mandatory criminal order requiring the identification of the person who operated the vehicle and committed the offence. The owner or user of the vehicle of a legal person, natural persons, craftsmen and persons carrying out another independent activity or natural person, traffic monks shall not have the legal capacity to request information on the identity of the person to whom he has driven, or traffic monks may request that information but the person from whom that information is requested shall not be obliged to supply it. Therefore, this remark should be taken into account and the provision of paragraph 3 of Article 229 should be complemented in such a way as to allow traffic directors to request and obtain credible information on the identity of the owner, i.e. the person entrusted with the management of the vehicle. And finally, given that here's the time and time, the HSS Representatives Club supports this passing of the law, and hopes that through these remarks and this debate in the second reading of some things will be completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64437	Thank you. We're going to interrupt the session now. We'll continue at 3:00 with the session. The first is on behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Ivan Hanžek. Thank you very much. We'll continue the afternoon session. According to the announcement, first in line is a respected representative on behalf of the SDP club Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64439	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, representatives of the Directorate. Here today we heard the decision that this law goes into regular procedure in two readings, and I think it's extremely good because that was also the suggestion at committee meetings that had the law in question on the agenda. And I welcome that for a number of reasons. It is, in fact, the fact that traffic problems require that laws are more frequent in processing and changing than other legal regulations because the simple development of transport infrastructure, the development of transport, the emergence of forms of negative tendencies or points in road safety certainly lead to the thinking, consideration and suggestion of amendments to laws that can improve the situation. And this bill, i.e. amendments and additions to the law in this sense, we would really welcome it, and I am not going to make suggestions and suggestions that have been made or which are referred to in the first debates because I believe that in any way, they will be adopted and incorporated in any way, but I would like to look back at a single suggestion, and that is what I think is the law at the level of criminal sanctions on the monetary consequences of misbehaving has reached its top. And that, in fact, further increase in penalties can actually lead to its opposite or even worse consequences, which is that one phenomenon which is a dominant situation where fines are too high and the pay power of participants in traffic is weak, that we come into the area of possible corruption and corruption. What I think in the next phase can significantly affect the increase of road safety is prevention. In fact, I like to stress it often and ask for understanding of fellow travellers in the world. Unfortunately, there are too few traffic cops or cops on our roads. The second thing, that I have a personal impression, and also some citizens who point to criticism and remarks, that it has come about, is I will use the term "before the '90s" and then it's a phenomenon that the police officer you call to act on is not criminally but preventively or as a suggestion according to a certain phenomenon in traffic, that you get the answer that it's not his activity, that he doesn't belong to that service no matter what he's wearing a uniform and that he actually avoids taking action. Secondly, it is quite common to see whether it is because of the administration that has been introduced and which is welcome in recording certain phenomena, that police officers turn their heads from certain irregular, aggressive behaviors in traffic such as slalom driving in cities, such as driving on the left-to-right lane, and the right is free, because they do not want to expose whether certain inconveniences in contact with citizens or do not want to administratively address a question that can complicate their life. There I show great understanding for that, that many times it is hard to write, with us Croats especially, on paper put, it is easier to say, on paper put things. However, it is a service that should react without delay as we have the opportunity to see on the roads either city or out of town in Western Europe. In particular, the Federal Republic of Germany, where the police, regardless of their duty, are competent, whether criminal or any one, reacts to the occurrences of illegal law enforcement, retains the perpetrator until the arrival of a competent police officer covering the area, let's make concrete traffic. I would especially like to, here I am, and I'm not going to spread since here's the first reading, and we've agreed to share more of that information and suggestions, especially now I want to point out one thing that is definitely current. On the one hand, the need to reduce the number of civil servants, employees. But not in a way to reduce the police and reduce the general number of police officers, but to think deeply about the formation of non-traffic order, but, let's not take this under quotes, don't take it to the end literally, "communal police". In Western European countries, it is also common for police to react to violations of the Law on Communal Order. In our community, unfortunately, that's lost. Officers in our community, we call them bobbys, unfortunately quite often they're corners for everyone because instead of working only in the area in which they're in charge, they're quite often during the annual vacation exchanges, they're doing replacements, then when some sporting events go to increased security, when some state visits go to reinsurance and then they have the right to free days and then you get into a situation that actually top police officers who are also citizens, and we as a local government are satisfied, that they're actually not happy with the time that they can devote to the problems of their area, and that we can't even end up being satisfied with it. So I think, in terms of the reduction in numbers, under the allegations of "decreation", this is actually about increasing the number of police officers, but not about the burden of the Ministry of the Interior, but about the burden of local self-government. In doing so, not all have the right to participate in this, but according to certain criteria and rules for certain areas for several units of local self-government such as the Law on Local Self-Government provides that joint operations for several units of local self-government may be carried out by agreement or agreement of the same. That way, police officers would be trained dearly today. We know that for 4 years, their schooling takes, and it's really too expensive and it's too long for them to just regulate and do simple jobs, wrong parking, walking violations, cycling, speed control measurements, and at the same time to be able to meet more flexible needs in local self-government units. In doing so, I mean certain points in the traffic problem when there is a need for regulation by an authorised person now I do not speak whose person, traffic signalling traffic regulation or increased presence which are now also made up of police officers in primary and secondary schools when a regular school year begins. However, this is most often an extremely high effort by police officers and administrations, which at that time have to separate police officers from other businesses to actually prevent them. The prevention in terms and this law needs far more to be done through other rules and regulations in agreement with the ministry to strengthen prevention, as I repeat, we have reached the ceiling of the level of fines. Some I support from this proposal, some I don't quite agree with. But the good thing about it is how much reason it will be from traffickers and also from police officers who need to sanction certain behaviours, that it doesn't turn out that everything is subject only to sanctions of fines but that there are also warnings and other ways to prevent them from acting. I also repeat, I support this variant until further notice of the municipal police. Suggestions and suggestions on behalf of the SDP Club, which it gave on behalf of the associations of cities and we recommend that we work together to prepare for the second reading and as a club and as representatives of the Association of Cities until the final text of the amendment and addition of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64440	Thank you. And on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's distinguished representative Goran Beus Richemebergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64441	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen, representatives of the proposer. We have also read that the amendment to this law is only two years after we adopted the basic text and that there are several reasons why, among other things, that one is the adoption of a directive of the European Parliament, and the other is the consequences of the decisions of the Constitutional Court of April this year, and that the third is that concrete experiences have come from last year's period of application of the basic law itself. On the aside that Parliament's directive was adopted in 2006, we could also apply it in 2008 that we wanted to. Also aside and the fact that we warned that the matter that the Constitutional Court abolished had been disputed since the first hour. But let's stay on the key things that we have from implementing the basic law that is now changing. In fact, there is one more thing that we should say, we do not seem to be consistent with some of the elements that the directive suggests, although these changes that are now being proposed were actually more familiar than we set out to pass the basic law. What we would also like to point out is that we will find it difficult to support the changes proposed in Article 5, which, in addition to fines from 5 to 15 thousand kuna, also provides for a prison sentence of up to 60 days for driving in the opposite direction of the highway. In fact, if suicides and murderers are excluded, no one else is going in the opposite direction on the highway on purpose. Thus, it is foolish to threaten them with prison and thus prevent them because it is clearly done to make it much smarter to consider further regulation or signalling that is visible and aggressive in some places and is not in some places. Furthermore, it seems good to us that we should punish which, from half a metre of snow, come out onto the road, because we have been in a situation not only from personal cars, but also from trucks, so large quantities of snow applications in the fall at high speed can significantly endanger traffic. However, allow me a little joke, we will certainly support the revision of Article 51 of this bill, but we need to remember what this is about. So, the device that gives traffic signs to three-color traffic lights, red, yellow and green, will finally be called a traffic light. It's like we've been calling the gutter around the house and collecting the bathrobe. However, what is really controversial for us in this whole set of new solutions is the urgency to significantly increase fines for the offences described in Articles 57, 67, 70, 72 and 74 of the basic law, and they are really only about taking away the advantage of the illegal impediment. In fact, the government suggests that the fine rises to 60% of the average wage in the Republic of Croatia. We know that this law has been applied since last year and the fact is that it has significantly sharpened the financial conditions of punishment but now to sharpen it further we think that it is extremely counterproductive, not only from the fact that people really have less and less money because of the recession and economic situation, but also because no punishment will prevent paralyses and hanging people on the road. So, they don't care if the penalty is 2, 3, 5 or 8 thousand kunas they'll pay for it but they'll actually get a small man or a man with an average salary or less than it will put him in a position to think about corruption. That's not good. Now, what's the reason he's got the Proposer going into this kind of tightening? The promoter says that the experience of the application of this Act is significantly improved opportunities for road safety in terms of those numbering indicators on the reduction of the number of traffic accidents, the number of injured, the number of deaths in 2009 and the first half of 2010. And when we see what exactly the figures are, some colleagues already mentioned them, it is said that in 2009 compared to 2008 the reduction in the total number of traffic accidents was 5.8%. That the number of injured persons was reduced by 2.6% and that the total number of deaths was lower by as much as 17.5% and 116 people per year, respectively. Great. Of course we all look forward to these indicators, however, to give the effects of this Law such almighty actually almighty relevance in this case is a little bit taken over anyway. In fact, reality is saying something different, I will now warn that Croatia has a drop in road numbers from 2000 to 2009 by about 15%, and let's say Portugal has a 55% decline, Spain by 53%, France by 48, Slovenia by 46 and so on I count all, Germany, Italy, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Ireland, the Czech Republic, Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Luxembourg, Austria, England, Belgium, Hungary, Finland, Greece, Poland and only then come to us, with the one that is above us, which is Poland has a 27% reduction. So almost twice as much as we do. And let's take it as a reality that from 2000 to 2009 we radically changed the quality of the roads by building very high mileage or highway network that's one thing. The second thing is that the promoter obviously forgets that there are also consequences of the economic, social crisis recession that also affect these numerical indicators that you boast about. We are now here on behalf of the CNS HSU to name only two. The number of passenger kilometres in 2009 fell by 15% compared to 2008, further, the transport of goods in road transport fell by 15% and slightly more. So as our traffic drops 15% in total, our traffic accident numbers are down 5.8%. To bring this into line with the strict measures of this Law, therefore, has been taken over. In this sense, we do not agree with such a severe tightening of financial penalties from 2 to 3 000 because we think that this is too harsh and secondly we do not think that greater penalties would condition a significant improvement in road conditions because they are already high enough for people who do not have money to destimulate and however much they are for people who are wildly expensive, fast cars who certainly cannot develop at full level on our ordinary roads, so there is madness for them no punishment is enough. Well, considering this is an emergency procedure, we have submitted the amendment, since it goes to another reading, we hope that you will then accept these suggestions. In any case, we welcome the applicant's willingness to react relatively quickly to the experience of the application of the Law and that some of the things observed as difficult to implement or otherwise imagined are now re-applying in a new form of this Law so that the Law looks better and that ultimately those to whom it applies are citizens, drivers and pedestrians can understand better, and on the other hand those who directly implement it, or oversee its implementation, which is easier for traffic police to implement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64442	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, distinguished Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Interior, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64443	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here I would just like to react, try to give an explanation or to give an answer to certain claims made by individual representatives, and I will start with the latest agent Beus, so I ask you to tell me after this debate the source of this data on the number of miles traveled, i.e. a 15% decline in passenger traffic. I've got here, I've got the same data I've been looking for here, I've got data from the Vehicle Center that through the official data collected on all vehicles says there's a drop in the number of miles average per car, but the total mass of miles in the Republic of Croatia is higher every year. I'm talking about the total mass of miles in road traffic. So I'm going to tell you that the total mass in traffic we have, the frequency of traffic is higher, we have more participants because we have more registered cars every year. Here is just to be clear and clear, so in 2007, according to the Vehicle Centre, which is the data that they came up with on technical checks where they take down practically every technical survey of mileage from each vehicle, in 2007 a total of 21 billion million million and several thousand kilometers of road traffic in Croatia. In 2008, 21 billion 458 million, so 300 million kilometers higher, 2009. Twenty-two billion 238 million miles [238 million km], which means, say, from 2009 to 2007, more about 800 million miles [800 million km] traveled. You may have been confused by this fact that the average mileage per vehicle is smaller, but since we have more and more vehicles each year, the total number of kilometers on all roads in the Republic of Croatia, of all road traffic participants, is higher. So the recession did not make it easier for us to work in a way that has fewer participants, fewer miles and less risky situations. As for these excessive penalties, I'm just asking to draw attention that we haven't introduced a lot of new fines. We have a new sentence in Article 5, that's this ride in a restricted direction on the highways. This has proved to be a major problem where the public reacts extremely badly because so far there have been several extreme cases where there have been many victims and these are phenomena that are harassing the public. In Article 13, we have the same new punishment for pedestrians who are not marked with a reflective vest, but not in the city, not on footsteps, but on public roads outside the cities. It's a fine of 300 kuna. And we have a new sentence in Article 20 for this snow that you have commended that you should really warn drivers or sanction them not to go out on the roads with uncleaned cars. So we only have these three fines. These other fines that you have already said exist, however, have been increased from £2000 to $3,000 for six traffic offences, those articles you have listed, only for the reason that under the Criminal Code 3000 kuna the condition that police can come out of protective action in terms of points and other safeguards. Under these fines, what police are now like to the perpetrators of these traffic offences cannot impose safeguards in terms of criminal points and other safeguards. This was one of the main reasons why for these six offences we found most often involved in the total number of traffic offences caused by traffic consequences, that they were the most common and therefore we went to increase to comply with the Law on Violations. So we didn't go into an indiscriminate, socially insensitive increase in fines, but we just followed those traffic offences and those traffic behaviors that cause the most traffic problems and we were just trying to pay attention, and in that sense and sanctions, aimed at these traffic offences that most endanger the safety of all road users. Here were some allegations that I felt the need to react to because I don't think the MPs might have had good data, so here I am calling for Mr Beus to show me these data, or I'm allowing maybe my data to be not the most accurate, but this particular story about the fact that recession is the main cause of good results, or the main cause prompted me to look for official data, to try to check how much this recession really affects the efficiency of the police. According to this data I came up with from the Vehicle Center, it's still not in the same correlation as trying to set up a recession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64444	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. And the first is the distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64445	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. When this proposal was announced in the media at one point I thought that those who drive motorcycles would have glasses, wipers on their glasses, and that we would install rotating wipers on cars. And it's good that this law goes into second reading, but before content, only three questions. It's a good thing you gave a glimpse of the fall in the number of traffic accidents, injured, killed and whatever the hell he was, happy. Whether this is just the result of stricter legislation and increased penalties, I would not agree to the end because I think that, and you will have to agree with me now, that removing black spots at crisis points is also affecting the decline of the number of accidents, and the Traffic Police are very well aware of the 12 most critical, blackest points on our roads. That the construction of circular flows in cities also affects the reduction in the number of traffic accidents and the increase in the number of kilometres of highways, as well as the renewal of the rolling stock, new vehicles replaced by the old ones also affect traffic safety. So there's more elements. But when the level of punishment has already been subject to the obvious Mr. Secretary of State, do we have the possibility to compare the effects of punishing traffic offences with those states that have those penalties in their daily incomes? Is there greater traffic discipline in Switzerland or Croatia? You know, I know that you know that in Switzerland traffic violations are sanctioned by penalties expressed in daily incomes. You've probably read as much as I have about fines of millions and millions of tens and hundreds of millions of euros for those who want to go wild or who think they're somewhere in an unannounced state. And I do wonder why we don't use such experiences, especially in a field of transport security. If we're already talking about social sensitivity or social welfare, then I think moving to daily income sanctions would have a far greater effect. Then it wouldn't happen to us if some mayors were to throw 2,000 kunas of fines out of the window and keep chasing the roads because it's nothing to him. But if he was revered with 100 of his daily incomes, at least he wouldn't laugh at the cop who stopped him or punished him, or the whole system. I will remain in favour of this approach until it is seriously considered because so far no one has given a single argument why this would not work in Croatia, the second time I have not given amendments because you have always refused them, why do you not increase the penalties for those responsible for the situation on the roads. I do not accept that all that is happening in traffic are the drivers, and that the uncleaned road can be the culprit for the car accident, the pool or the water lake on the road, the wrong intersection, the false signalling on the stake itself or the follower. This irresponsibility of those in charge of road maintenance, highways, state and county roads is one of the reasons why the number of traffic accidents reduction is not greater. It seems to me that one of the only cases when a criminal traffic report was filed, it was somewhere in Istria County, and before and after that, I don't know about that case. We've focused on sanctioning drivers, which is good, but if there's no stronger sanctioning of those who are legally responsible for the state of transport in accordance with the regulations, we won't get much effect. We won't. Furthermore, I offered you last time an amendment to the police's right to close for traffic if it considers that the situation on that road is not in line with the regulations, and you did not want that authority more strongly because it would thus force the road owner to remove the grounds of closure as soon as possible. And we had a lot of car accidents, and it upsets the public when the traffic situation was such that there was a traffic accident. After all, we have recently witnessed all of Croatia that people driving along the road ended up in the lake because there was no traffic sign, let alone some obstacles to the paved road leading them to death. And today, you don't know who's responsible for it, and then the institutions of local, state-owned, public-media companies argue over who killed those people. And I'm afraid no one will ever answer for that. You see, that's the kind of example I'm talking about. On such examples, the traffic police had to see that the road leads to the lake and shut down traffic and order those responsible to choose a matter to be resolved whoever it was. It is clear to me that these stricter sanctions do not suit many in Croatia, because they are part of the government, local or national that resistances always come from these circles. Drivers aren't so tough, they're organized, so then we're always in sanctions just going towards them. Is it a good prevention when police participate and give consent to perform reconstructions, rebuilding especially intersections, going as far as possible towards circular flows as a means of slowing down, slowing down traffic and where indeed unlike before when there was nothing or where there were traffic lights to a small number of accidents. And I think every kuna invested in it is far more worth than this stricter sanctioning. And only with two requests about content. The snow on the roof, and even the water on the tow can be deadlyly dangerous but the provisions or clearer precision that it is not understood now that if snow falls outside and we're on the road, that every 500 meters we have to stop and clean the snow off the roof of the car. Let's not banalize things, let's make it clear to the citizens, see what kind of name was created. By the way, we're clearing the snow off the roof of the car. Perhaps the media presentation in the future would not be the one showing such suggestions. And that twirling like a rush to traffic. What if the driver blinds to warn this forward to some danger, hangs his exhaust, pulls the exhaust on the road, his tire is empty, something's going on, I think that article suffers a little change in the expression to be clear, unarbited depending on whether the policeman got up on the left or on the right leg that day when he stopped you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64446	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired in 15 and 35 for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. We have one replica that's the esteemed representative of Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64447	I'll give you a chance to comment, but I'm sure Secretary of State Buconjic will listen well. Therefore, according to data from the State Statistics Institute, so the state institution that only ran official statistics to the Republic of Croatia, in 2009 compared to 2008, there were 2741 vehicles less registered than in 2008, the fall in both the bus and freight vehicles and the passenger vehicles. Furthermore, the goods have dropped 15%, the number of passengers in public transport has fallen by 7%, the passenger miles have fallen by 15%, these are official data that stand together with all data on the fatalities, traffic accidents and all other forms you use in this Bill Proposal, in the same table on the same page of the State Statistics Office of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64448	Thank you. The answer to the replica is representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64449	A fellow Gorana that there have been fewer miles, billions of kilometers and fewer cars on the roads, the secretary of state will likely agree, reducing the number of accidents, the number of killed and injured, comparing with other countries will not satisfy them, they have greater reductions. It's supposed to be our subject. So, can we get into the secret of why they managed to build a bigger transport culture there than we did in Croatia. When we get into this, you will see, compare the penalties for those in those countries for those who are responsible for the state of transport and you will see that stronger sanctioning their irresponsibility greatly affects that too. And of course, locating black dots and removing them, too. And I want to believe that everyone would be happy that next year, the secretary of state comes with a report that the number of traffic accidents in Croatia has been reduced by, say, 25%.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64450	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to Commissioner Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64451	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The seriousness of the situation, therefore, when it comes to traffic security, especially when the law is passed or amendments to the Transport Safety Act do not allow us to be either cynical or moody in this sense to discuss in a way that is not worthy of this subject, and for what? Because Croatian roads, Croatian highways are still sites where people are unfortunately killed, where innocent people are most unfortunately killed. Gina because others are so careless, so few take care of other people who have been killed with carelessness and neglect of such people who really need to be put to the end. However, as much criticism as there has been here to tighten fines for certain violations which they may agree to in part. But our biggest problem is that there is still no social consciousness, no social condemnation that behavior is forbidden and deadly in traffic. Such social dangers must be caused by contempt and condemnation, both by the state and by society as a whole. If we see little of which persons are banned from entering the public service of all levels or authorities, including local authorities, we do not speak state-level, then there are counts of individual criminal offences by certain chapters of the Penal Code. But there is never a criminal act of endangering security, even if it is with the most deadly consequences, even if it was done with imagination, even if it was done in the worst possible way to drive drunk in violation of all possible regulations. So there is still the social awareness of us as it has long ago so that you can work in a family of whatever you want and that it is a private matter, therefore, and violence. Thank God we're behind it today. Social awareness has grown that these are absolutely unacceptable behaviors that eliminate such persons. So, of course, there are slight violations, there are violations that are not deadly nature. However, there are those who are of such nature to commit and represent crimes. However, as much as the Penal Code has changed, we have not tightened the sanctions that have been prevented from traffic crimes. Therefore, this one problem needs to be considered from that point of view. If we want to contribute to road safety, if we want to eliminate the material damage to the wound and, above all, the mortality on our highways, then I personally expected that we would have changes to that head of traffic security, so from the Penal Code. How many initiatives have also been made about victims who have remained apprehensive for the rest of their lives because young life has been extinguished by roadway life. And that is why, in this sense, some of the violations that are more administrative, which are more in some way disciplined administrative nature and do not represent in that sense. They, uh, there's a little bit of them in the smaller part. That's where you need to be careful and really take care. There is room to take care of a milder punishment, not discipline citizens in such a way. So, which is the state, which is the government and what all of us must be here together to contribute to road safety. But then I'm asking you to look at it this way. We recently passed a year ago, two passed the Law on the Reward of Victims of Crimes. But they were eliminated here by the people who suffered the greatest loss and not the people who, they didn't contribute to the traffic. They were road users, they were acting the way they were supposed to, and they're just gone. These people have often been defiled. No damages were paid. So, and in that way, people realize that it's not something that the state doesn't mean anything but how to calm down often I believe that it's not at the end of the line like that. But there's often a feeling that there's a state lack of money, and then it's a drastically increasing penalty for traffic violations. However, if we look at etiology and see how the most difficult accidents occurred. It's just that very little is caused by some natural, some kind of cause that's beyond man's influence. It's mostly over 90% because people didn't, or drivers didn't respect traffic regulations. I must point out immediately when the SDP club pointed out that one illogical fact that a man, or driver, must not have any more alcohol in the blood at all than 0.5, and then without any causal link unless he is connected to the safety belt that makes both violations. That's what we've been telling you. Here was the intervention of the Constitutional Court to see you were wrong and the Constitutional Court in that section respected the claim for the protection of the legality that the SDP club had filed. What is also very concrete now, given that I hope that the Committee's proposal will be truly respected, that it is about first reading and that there is indeed time for us to fix the law in terms of its ultimate goal not to fill the budget, but that the law primarily acts preventively and that we are all as road users as safe as possible. In that sense, I would like to point out that the provision of Article 14 which many in one way or another have criticised is something I would say most valuable in this law, it has been subjected to various criticisms, false understanding, there may be some space to improve in this sense and to improve, but the participants who are legally acting in traffic are most often thrown out to these drivers who, who are listed just in Article 14, are those who do not respect the speed limit, who do not respect that basic regulation to adapt their driving to certain conditions on the roads to specific times, do not hold the necessary distance, thus jeopardising participants who adhere to regulations and restrictions on regulations. That many of the crimes, or most serious car accidents, occurred with the most difficult outcome precisely because people did not respect these behaviors. Also here someone is mocking this provision, giving light or sound signs. Of course it doesn't apply, and that every cop should know about the warning to another traffic participant, that something's wrong with his vehicle, but in any case, giving light signals, when someone wants you off the highway with 200 and more kilometers simply to move you off the road, sound signals giving, blinding, therefore giving these light signals, acting illegally and simply driving you off the road, off the highway. Unfortunately, such ones always go without any sanctions, and unfortunately there is a situation where our official vehicles, I say not the Ministry of the Interior, but some others who provide certain protected persons with such behaviour, and that is unacceptable, and that is what is causing the citizens to have a great view. Furthermore, people here, or some MPs, were making fun of each other, so there's gonna have to be some windscreens and glasses here. So it's logical that the windscreen for the sake of transparency, that's the basic condition of safe driving being cleaned out. But what's going on? No one punishes, especially truck drivers who do not have or have, and should have according to the existing rules of a certain protective tyre, or windscreens for the rear wheels, because you can behave as properly as you can, clean your windscreens, but simply because of the way the truck driver behaves, it is not possible. Also in Article 21, it is impossible and not good, it is the first time you have introduced legal evidence into our legal system. So drunkenness won't, it's not possible, or it's not necessary to determine just by examining and analysing blood and urine, our court practice and it's well-known from witnesses' testimony, in the circumstances of a person who simply can't stand on his feet, is it necessary for her to take more special blood out? You can extract it if you determine the amount of alcohol in your blood, but it can be proven, therefore, the presence of alcohol in other ways. This has so far been and is not good for you to exclude, or establish, a legal assessment of the evidence.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64452	Thank you very much. You're out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64453	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64454	Thank you very much. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It's next, Honourable representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64455	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This Road Safety Act has been in force since mid-2008, and can be said to have contributed to raising the overall level of traffic safety on Croatian roads. This is seen by reducing the total number of traffic accidents, and the total number of injured persons, and is particularly valuable in reducing the number of deaths. However, through the two-and-a-half-year application of the law, certain shortcomings have been seen to be addressed with a view to further increasing road safety, i.e. the first reason for these amendments and additions to the law. The second reason for proposing amendments and additions is to bring it in line with the European Directive, the basis proposed by the new DI category of vehicle, the retegorisation of four cycles, as well as certain changes in the mandatory performance of technical checks for certain types of vehicle. In this respect, it is really not clear why this directive is not incorporated into the law immediately, at the time of its adoption in 2008, as the directive dates back to 2006. And the third reason for these changes and additions is to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted in April of this year on the SDP case and related to the punishment of drivers in driving conditions under the influence of alcohol. According to that decision, up to 0,5 alcohol spills in the blood will no longer be tolerated only by drivers of professional categories, young drivers and drivers of category B vehicles, whose management is of basic interest, so it is about taxi drivers, ambulance drivers, drivers of emergency aid, drivers of companies and state institutions, etc. For all other drivers, i.e. for the largest number of drivers in Croatia, 0.5 alcohol spills in the blood will no longer be a cause for punishment, regardless of whether it is committed during driving and any offence. So there will be no more double-punishing drivers for a level of up to 0.5 alcohol spill in the body, and drivers will be allowed to consume whether a glass of wine or beer, and it will certainly welcome our hosts and it will be one of the better anti-recession measures thanks to Eto SDP. All the reasons for the amendments and additions made clearly stated by the proposer have been stated so far. However, there is another reason to read between lines, but that is why it is not even less important. It is, however, the fiscal role of these amendments and additions, i.e. on the intention to raise additional financial resources in the state budget. In 2008, when the Road Safety Act was passed, there were a lot of criticism about its repressiveness, i.e. on high penalties. The amendments and additions to this proposal are definitely a step further in this repression. In one word convinced that the repressivity of the current law resulted in a significant improvement in the level of road safety, the government goes into even more repressiveness, of course counting on the financial benefit of the national register, or a simplified one will solve two flies. However, repressivity is not always a good solution, because we know from experience that citizens who frequently break the law are trying to get away with paying high sentences. In addition, it would be good to respect the property censorship when defining penalties, or somehow to adapt punishment differently, respecting exactly the current economic situation. And that is why it is good that the proposal goes into another additional reading, in order to consider all individual cases and propose the best solutions. The most observable example where only the high penalty, but unfortunately not some other preventive measures, intends to sanction some traffic situations is certainly a fine of 5 to 15 thousand kuna, which can be replaced by a prison of up to 60 days for driving in the opposite direction, or forbidden direction, and we have had such examples this year several times, so that some technical procedures, or more aggressive warnings, could prevent such situations, rather than just going to that naked punishment. Furthermore, the amount of fines is raised from 2 to 3 thousand kunas, so 50% for 6 violations mainly related to exaggerations. Therefore, the failure of the vehicle and the advantage of passing, crossing on the right hand side, starting or passing or bypassing, passing of another vehicle in the tunnel, on the bridge, etc. Also, I think it's too high a fine of 700 kuna for a driver who doesn't clean up frozen windscreens and snow on the vehicle before entering the market. Well, this morning I really thoroughly cleaned my windscreen to get used to it in time. For some of the violations provided for by this bill, I simply don't understand how it will be realized. For example, how will it be determined whether the driver blinked with long lights as often as we do when we greet acquaintances who come to meet us or we warn forgetful colleagues that they have not turned on the lights. And with this right over here, you have to say that forgetfulness contributes to a lot, and the law itself, since it determines that a little light needs to be turned on, so it doesn't need to turn them on in such a order. Mostly this is the manifestation of driving solidarity by glaring to point out the immediate danger of police in the future will be severely punished. And in the end, I have to say that with some other improvements, I personally find the article of the 51st bill very nice. In fact, the article says that a device that has been described in the law so far as to give traffic signs to three - color traffic lights of red, yellow and green will be simply called a traffic light in the future. This is a small step towards road safety, but a big step towards simplifying the Croatian language in writing the law. And if it continues in this positive trend to define terms with as little words as possible, best with only one, we'll have much shorter and much clearer regulations. In any case, the laws will be clearer and more accessible and understandable to the citizens, which is certainly the most important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64456	Thank you. It's time for the distinguished representative, Tanja Vrbat. She's gone, she's lost. ... I'm sorry, we have an exact correction. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64457	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So the correction of the alleged honourable MPs was read in her speech that one of the essential segments of amending this law and filling the state register through fees, fines and all that follows as a financial result. I can indeed conclude here that there is no price for any life and that it is an absolutely fundamental segment in this amendment of the law is not filling the state budget but through hitting on the pocket of all those infringers wanting our drivers to ride by law and thus preserve how the lives of the drivers themselves, and then all those who are partners or passengers or in the same or other vehicle. So I'm stressing that law enforcement is, above all, the prevention and respect of the law. It is clear that we cannot escape from the fact that thanks to God come and who swears in the state register, but this is not a fundamental principle and approach to changing this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64458	Thank you. We're moving forward with an individual debate. Dear Representative Mario Habek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64459	Dear Vice President, representatives of the Croatian government, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a new road safety law that will totally hit the driver's pocket and somehow be solid with the other drivers on the road. Also, this means that we will also be driving drivers who will dazzle and warn other drivers of police control, or who will warn drivers ahead of themselves who, for example, will be detained at a speed of 80 km per hour in the left lane, will be punished with as much as 2,000 kuna. On the other hand, for overruns like what we had recently at Bosiliev after which, unfortunately, a woman killed a Ferrari would be a thousand kunas greater than for such a terrible event. So it turns out that here we are going to be a slightly smaller punishment than wildling on the highway, crossing the tunnel, crossing the bridge, at the walking crossing and other crazy things that, unfortunately, cause people to lose their lives on our roads. Also, drivers will be severely punished who do not clear the snow that got into their car or parked car during their driving. For this the same punishment of 700 kuna is provided because only if there is no right here that there must be 10, 20, 50 cm snow height that can be allowed on the car. According to the proposal for a new law, pedestrians will also have to walk at night or day under conditions of reduced visibility with a reflective vest or be marked by some light source. Those pedestrians who won't have it, or who won't have a reflective vest and some of the clothes of some of these living colors if they don't wear the lamps, we'll punish them with 300 kuna. Then, an increasingly frequent car ride in the opposite direction on highways, police seek to curb the introduction of dragon penalties. For that offense, the fine is between 5 thousand and 15 thousand kuna or prison for up to 2 months. Of course, that's one big problem, I agree it needs to be solved, but the question is how much this punishment itself will affect solving this increasingly common problem on our highways. I'm here to find new ways and ways to prevent such accidents. What does one punishment mean when one who drives in the opposite direction kills himself and several others? So we need to focus on strengthening the control on highways or on places where such pearls can get involved in the wrong direction, i.e. solving it with additional signs or lights. This law can also be closely linked to the Road Transport Act. In fact, it is some articles that are mentioned in both laws with almost the same provisions. This is what I was already talking about here in Parliament, and it would be good for the Ministry to take responsibility and control of such laws, so we will see that certain things are regulated into two different laws, although it is quite clear that this is the area of the same law. The Constitutional Court then proposes that a provision be introduced into the Road Safety Act allowing for the use of alcohol of 0.5 prominence except for professional and young drivers, namely, it is actually about having to drink beer again and sit down for the controller and that there will be no offence in the blood regardless of whether an accident or another offence occurs during the ride. Here's what we can say is that it's another shower to the government that doesn't listen to the opposition in this House and doesn't use experts when laws are passed but the law is pushed into the procedure so where does it crack? We spoke in the House that you were wrong when you passed that law, we made an observation about the constitutionality assessment, and now you see that we were right and you were wrong. They wouldn't have made a mistake if you'd listened to us back then. Here's proof that it would be good for you to actually listen to the opposition sometime, especially experts. The question of whether this government would understand all other mistakes and amend this law if this were not to be brought into line with the European Parliament and Council of Europe's directives, I must admit that it is Europe that makes us change and supplement the law that we can obviously find it difficult to understand or do so ourselves. Thus, according to the number of people killed still at the very top of the blacklist, the Republic of Croatia should make even more efforts to reduce that number, also one of the causes of the motorcycles that I will be touching on the roads here, is in various holes and irregularities on the road that are not fixed in time and stand for several weeks, even months, should include criminal responsibility for such irregularities that are on the roads or for those who do not repair them in time. I don't remember anyone ever mentioning in the media that when designing the construction or maintenance of roads, the population on two wheels was being taken care of. These amendments and additions to the law are once again proof that the government has no hearing for experts, that there is no hearing for opposition in the Assembly and that it is not ready to accept good proposals in time simply because they do not come from the HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64460	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Nada Čavlović Smiljanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64461	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, in the context of today's debate, I would like to say something else about the road safety law and what is also related to this Law, namely, it is known that the Ministers of Home Affairs, based on the Road Safety Act, are laying down regulations, and also in 2005, rules have been adopted that relate to the number and places where the Technical Review Stations can be established. In 2005, Minister Ivica Kirin, then Minister of the Interior, made amendments to this Regulation that were anti-constitutional, which ended this provision by the Constitutional Court of Regulations, however, it did not prevent him from making a solution approved by 48 in 12 months 2005, approving the opening of 48 stations for the technical review of Croatia's insurance company. Also after that, Interior Minister Tomislav Karamarko also makes a solution that has not been established under the law during 2009, which is that of these 48 technical inspection stations, he approves that 15 technical inspection stations can be built and that 5 cells that were already built during that period have been built and 10 cells for the technical examination that allegedly started construction. I have to say here, since the secretary of state is present, that as far as the technical inspection stations are concerned, which should be started to build in the town of Virovitica, and the minister of his solution that approved this construction is based on the fact that the preparatory activities have already been carried out, I have to speak here publicly, that is not true at all, because the solution was made during 2009. Just a second. And the town of Virovitica and Croatia insurance that builds the station only concluded a sales contract in 6 months 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64462	Thank you very much. Don't be angry, we had one case this morning when there was a complaint that the MP was replicating something that wasn't in the basic debate. Here's an example, you've replicated something that wasn't even mentioned in the basic debate, all right, that should be said, but you could say it differently, not through the replica. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64463	Well, fellow Members, here's nothing to surprise you here, given that this example you've spoken of is just one in a series of examples of non-compliance with the law. In this country, the laws that the Parliament has passed are not respected, the decisions of the Constitutional Court are not respected, so all this goes on as to what kind of government we unfortunately have.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64464	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. Dear Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64465	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here we know that the main indicators of road safety are the total number of traffic accidents, injured persons or those killed, from these reports you say there is a visible reduction, but we also heard from colleagues different data, or we heard where our Croatia is on the blacklist, and I would also mention a single nice reference from the beginning of the tourist season, when with 150 deaths in traffic per million people, Croatia has declared an Austrian transport club the most dangerous European country when it comes to traffic accidents. However, no matter what our truth may be, our roads must naturally be made as safe as possible and certain that we do so to any amendments and additions to the Law. Good driving does not mean knowing all the rules well, having a good condition, actually being able to handle traffic, all drivers should tolerate each other, show greater solidarity, and therefore I welcome Article 14 where you state that you must not drive by slalom driving, that you must not run in the stop bar, that you should keep the necessary space, then you must not rush the vehicle ahead of you giving light or sound signs that we all felt traveling along the highway or writing in any other way performing any other shop. However, in this case, perhaps since it was a law on an article that defines all these things, it should be more specific to state what other ways they are. I would then mention the changes that regulate the movement of pedestrians and cyclists, or the use of protective helmets and reflective vests, and I also welcome that this now refers to all drivers who move at night and day in case of reduced visibility to be actually marked with a reflective vest or reflective cycling clothes, but of course this does not only apply outside the settlement but also within the settlement that I hold that this will naturally raise both the level of safety and that article. Article 5 speaks of the authority of local and regional self-government relating to road safety, I would like to mention here today our SDP colleague mentioned the association of cities in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, the City Association was shown that the purpose and scope of the proposed and planned amendments would be largely achieved if they were delivered, or if the NGO had been involved in the making of these laws since the start of these laws, rather than when the laws were delivered almost finished. I hope you don't take this wrong, but this is one constructive way to make the law effective in the future. So the Association of Cities has proposed strengthening the jurisdiction and authority of civil and traffic police, so let's say that civil and traffic police are expanding their responsibilities, so that there are two additional activities in it, which include detecting pedestrians and cyclists as other road users on the one hand, on the other hand controlling the speed of the vehicle in populated areas. With regard to the authority of the civilian traffic police, we are convinced that powers are required, to request driver's driver's driver's driver's license for inspection, and other traffic participants to establish identity. Namely, as we know of the violations of pedestrians and cyclists as other cyclists on the cyclist surfaces are a major security risk that does not follow and sanction the Ministry of the Interior, perhaps because there is not enough shortage in actually a clerk. But that's not the point now. Equally, these violations are not sanctioned by the civilian traffic police. That's exactly why I'm saying this because the existing regulation does not give her the power to do so. We were talking about speed today, and I'd like to give you some information. Every nine leads 200 km per hour, 50.13% of drivers drive faster than 130 km per hour, 125 subjects drive faster than 200 km per hour. Half of Croatian drivers drive faster than there is a limit on Croatian highways, and more than 50% said they are driving more than 130km per hour. Therefore, I always vote to control and punish the speed of driving, because we know what the consequences are. I would also like to mention something about alcohol, or the means of addiction. Drivers, motorcyclists, cyclists and all other traffic participants must also know that even the smallest amount of alcohol endangers road safety, since of course alcohol degrades all driver’s abilities regardless of experience, especially young people. Here's more information that it takes six to 12 hours, and sometimes with stronger drunkenness and a full 24 hours to make alcohol completely disappear from the system. It is very dangerous to drink in the late hours, and this poses a great danger because after hours of sleep in the blood, blood may remain an illicit concentration of alcohol. Therefore, I am here for rigorous measures and the withdrawal of, of course, driver's license. We also heard that punishments have reached the top, that there are opportunities and some corrupt measures, etc. But here I'm advocating for the prevention of small legs precisely because drinking began to affect everyone all those years ago. I'd like to refer here to two articles of the 17th and 34th that don't make sense to me, so I'd like to ask for an explanation. Like what? in Article 17, says "The driver of bicycles, mopeds and motorcycles shall not transport a person who has drugs or medicines to which it is indicated that he must not take during driving or for a period of time prior to driving" etc. However, a driver who drives another driver is punished, but as he will know, you know that a visibly alcoholic man can be identified, but we cannot know if he took any medication that must not be drunk while driving. I think that's quite unspeakable. Similarly, it says in article 34 and take anything to take a sedative and says that it must not be taken while driving, or even during the Coldrex flu, it may also say that it must not be taken while driving. Those two articles don't make any sense to me what's going on. Therefore, I can conclude that safety is actually a responsibility for safety is certainly distributed through several ministries, although when we talk about security we think of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport, the Ministry of Education, Health, Finance. Therefore, we need to integrate all together and not transfer responsibility from one ministry to another, as I think Mr. Lesar was talking about in his discussion somewhere. I think it is necessary to work synchronisedly to determine the priorities of the area and, of course, I always vote in favour of prevention first of all. And in the end, I can't get an impression of this law being mentioned these days, and when I talked to anyone, everyone was pointing out, everyone was looking at the punishment, kind of like it was in the focus of punishment, not security and responsibility. And as long as we have the focus of punishment when we talk about traffic safety on our roads, and we don't have exactly this security and responsibility, we certainly haven't made it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64466	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64467	This fellow you're talking about just one punishment and the drastic punishment of drivers who shamelessly exceed their prescribed speed, who drive under the influence of alcohol and drugs, I think it should really be a taste of punishment, and then people wouldn't see the law as to what kind of punishment is for some of the most reckless and minor offenses. So all those good things fall right under these little things and a drastic increase in fines for minor violations. Then people, then, everything is relativizing and the most serious offense. And that's why I think we need to concentrate on these things right now, and let's not say what's proposed in the proposal, let's say that the international license is now no longer worth five years but three years. So, really, then people realize here's what the government wants us to do, wants to get our power in our pocket and again just some taxes, new IDs or new permits, something that was worth five years ago now worth three years. Or the introduction of some other terms that do not know the legal system. We have a lot of problems with both residence and residence with some other laws, and you don't need to introduce some new concept that doesn't exist in our legal terminology. So there's only a place to live and only a place to stay. The resort is always temporary, no temporary and no permanent residence. It's another thing that's being played. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64468	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It's our guest, Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64469	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The adoption of road safety laws in June 2008 shows a number of indicators of a significant reduction in the number of accidents on our roads. Basic road safety indicators are the total number of accidents, the number of injured and the number of people killed. In the year of full application of the law, we can consider 2009. Data show that in that year compared to 2008, the total number of accidents decreased by 5.8%, a decrease in the total number of injured 2.6%, while the total number of deaths was less than 17.5% or 116 people. The trend continued in 2010 and there were 14.5% lower deaths in the first six months than in 2009. The national road safety programme for 2006-2010, which was set by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the main goal of reducing the number of people killed from then 15 to 100,000 people below 10% of the population to 100,000. It is now seen that this goal is achieved, certainly, that, among other things, the current law has contributed to such a state, more so if there is a constant increase in traffic, an increase in motor vehicles and a number of drivers. For example. In 2007 alone, the number of motor vehicles increased by over 100,000, the number of drivers by 45 thousand, and there was an increase in traffic by 18% throughout the year. Of course not to be satisfied, we should work to improve both the conditions and the legislation because we are still far from the average of Scandinavian countries that have died below 5 per 100,000 inhabitants. So these amendments to the law are on the trail because the need for even more precise regulation of road traffic problems has been observed in order to further increase safety on our roads. The law seeks to prescribe a way of delivering data on vehicle owners, units of local self-government or legal persons who are required to carry out operations in the field of road safety entrusted to them by this proposal to amend and supplement the law. Also, vehicle logouts regulate relations and more precisely indicate this in this law, traffic regulations and safety rules and vehicle management. Special restrictions are also proposed to be imposed by young drivers in order to avoid doubts about the issue of the sameness of these restrictions with the restrictions that drivers of beginners have been subject to in accordance with the applicable law, but also to keep up with technological developments and increase the average power of the personal car engine. What I believe is not good and it probably won't affect the increase in traffic safety is the revision of Article 202 which, under the applicable laws, gives the owner of the auto school must have at least one vehicle of the category for which it is being carried out and there is actually going on to go below the level we have so far, which is certainly an impact on the significant increase in safety on our roads. Of course, what I think is still to be predicted in this law, which would certainly improve the statistical indicators of road safety, which is that stricter standards for bus transporting students should be laid down, given what we have been reading through all these, especially these last two years in the media, but also looking at our televisions. So that's one problem, I'm afraid there's been a huge dismissal of the owners who get it, so I think we should definitely do everything we can to make the standards for those who deal with this activity more stringent and that here in the future will certainly bring better. Of course, I share the same thoughts of all those who spoke of excessive fines. I think some should really be corrected because I agree that it's not the conditions and it's not the social situation, the standard of citizens, but all together, I think we could fix it a little bit. Otherwise, I fully believe that the proposal to amend and supplement the Road Safety Act is one additional improvement, and by the second reading, I think we're going to do this, here's these few remarks that I've had that we're going to fix. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64470	Thank you. It's the honorary representative of Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64471	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The purpose of any amendment to the Road Safety Act is to increase that safety. The promoter obviously believes that it is not enough and that something needs to be done to make it more secure. The question is whether it can only be achieved by increasing the sentence. I believe he can, partly. Penalties can't be too high, because punishments don't need to be paid, so they can't be high. In order not to pay the fines, it's enough to commit violations and then no one has to pay anything. Are the penalties too high? So I'm looking at the newspaper when a big incident like that happened, it was 250, and it says it was done in Switzerland, it would pay 10, 15000 euros. I don't know anything about 2000 or 5000 kn. So they're not too big after all. It wouldn't have occurred to him to do it in Switzerland, he wouldn't have thought to do it in Germany, Austria, Italy. But then he comes to Croatia and tests the strength of his vehicle's engine because he can afford it here. So, basically, I don't mind increasing the fines. But let's do a little analysis. What is the biggest threat to road safety? What causes the most difficult, the biggest, and the most common accidents? Alcohol, drugs, speeding mostly with young drivers. When it comes to drugs and alcohol, of course, there's something I can do, but what kind of phenomenon we have is an unwanted one that we can't control. They're relapsers. 15 criminal charges, 20 criminal charges, kill someone on the road, and then we find out that before that, he had 20 criminal charges for drunk driving, speeding, driving without a driver's license, driving with a sequestered driver's license. He's grounded. How was he punished? Money. That when it comes to young drivers, the fine doesn't mean anything to them because they don't pay it. That's what Daddy pays from, and he takes the car, he borrows the car, so he drives wildly on the road, so he kills people completely irresponsiblely, and the fine doesn't go out of his pocket. Therefore, such a fine could be said but completely pointless. Last time the Road Safety Act changed, I proposed an amendment. The government turned him down. I will not spend this time and effort writing the amendment again, but this innovation will probably be introduced into the law only after the change of power because this government is obviously not sensitive enough to do so. When it comes to relapsers. The only effective method would be to confiscate the means of executing a criminal offence. Look, when someone smuggles a slave ship, then there's a penalty to take away the means of execution because they found on his ship smuggled goods. And when someone drives 250 an hour for the twenty-fiveth time, there's no punishment. And if we took that car away from him, not because it wasn't his car, but it was Daddy's, then Daddy would think very hard when he bought another car if he'd even let him drive it. And if there's nothing to drive, then he won't kill anyone because he'll only be able to ride on a bike. Why the government won't accept it is not clear to me. He's got a parallel in Customs Law. Why won't they put it in this one I really don't understand. I didn't hear anything about the last changes to the law about it. And if we were to introduce something like that, I assure you, we'd have to get the relapsers off the road. Another measure I suggest. Young drivers. I don't think they have a problem with alcohol as much as testosterone. He poses a danger. Guys show up, go crazy, pretend they're important, they're not aware of the danger they're causing for themselves or anyone else. They take the girl in the car and they want to make an important move, so, of course, when something happens at those speeds, they kill themselves and her and maybe someone else. One rule should apply to young drivers. No harsh punishment. Or for the slightest violation of the resuscitation of the driver's test. So, what would our vice president say, darling, is that you didn't blow it. If you haven't learned that, then you're nice again at school until you learn it. For the minimum infringement of the resuscitation of the driver's test. It's for the wrong parking lot. You didn't learn not to park wrong. So go back to school, pay the course, go take a theory, take a ride. Society would profit. And these schools would charge them for it. To them it's a punishment you know what, the greatest possible. Because they won't pay for it anyway, and here they have to go alone again to the driver's license, back to theory, back to the exam, back to driving for 30 hours. Well, that's his bullying, you know. And if such a regime were to drive for five years, it would create such driving habits that it would never commit violations again. He'd just have a civilized ride into his blood. He could no longer drive after five years of such disciplined driving. Why isn't something like that suggested? I don't get it either. If we know that this is a danger and year after year we read in the reports that these groups are the ones that cause the most traffic accidents, with the most difficult consequences and that we simply will not apply the solution. Why? I don't know. I leave it to the government's soul this time, to settle it with its amendment, if he wants to, if there's any interest in solving it, and if there's nothing left, then we'll still be reading in the paper how the young people of the 20th time committed a crime so he killed someone, and in that accident he got hurt, you know someone who kills someone on the road doesn't have that quiet life for the rest of the day. He couldn't. He got killed in that accident, too, and he didn't have a bone broken, and he got hurt, too, because he's young, he's irresponsible, he's not aware of the danger. So let's help him this way. Well, it's better that, well, it's better that she lays her driver's license 15 times than she spends 15 years in jail when something happens and it's gonna happen. For some, it's not a question of whether it's going to happen, it's only a question of when. It's just a question. And something compared to Article 20, and this is a snow-cleaning obligation, so if you don't clear the snow from the car then the penalty is 700 kuna, I just don't know how you're going to do it now in practice. First of all, every driver normally clears the snow to see it drive, because otherwise he doesn't see if the snow is on the windscreen, and secondly, it starts from Gospić, let's say it snows thick snow, and he cleans the car, and it goes to Zagreb, it snows thick snow, he gets to Karlovac again, except for that place where wipers work. And then what will the police stop him and punish him with 700 kuna? Or will he have to stand there every 10 minutes and clean that snow from his car so he doesn't pay 700 kuna? So one provision that's completely pointless, you don't know what it's for, who it's used to, what it makes any sense to have snow on the roof of a car, I don't understand, maybe it bothers me, maybe I don't know if it bothers, I've been a driver for a long time, but I haven't noticed that it bothers anyone yet. It's a shame if you don't see through the windows, if you don't see the mirror, then it bothers you, then you're driving by yourself, but every driver takes care of his own safety, so cleans it up a little bit, if he gets a lot of weight, you stop and you clean it up, but because of the uncleaned snow, now he's gonna be stopped by a patrol in Karlovac, and he's going to go out of Gospić on a thick snow and punish him with 700 kuna is an absolute nonsense. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64472	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. Honorable representative Stjepan Milinkovic is the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64473	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Stazic said a few incorrect allegations, but I was stuck with one especially when he said that young drivers are not a problem of alcohol, but a problem of testosterone. So please nicely, you get into this place in one minefield I would say in some way, and in some ways I've, in some ways, incorrectly it's first of all, and second thing and thank God there's this testosterone as such he's got his variations through time like young people, but a colleague of mine has said very nicely how much of a problem alcohol is, and you've said that alcohol is a drug and a fast drive and a regent that it's a major problem, but you're also coming opposite to your club that says we're going to legalize those drugs, light drugs, as you already call them, drugs are drugs, and in some ways you're killing yourself. And then you say we're not going to Europe like that. Well, we won't even think about it that way. No one thinks in Slovenia that he would drive more than 50 kilometers an hour and so on. So we need to be principled and responsible, very clear alcohol as such is a big problem, of course with young drivers who have other moments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64474	Thank you very much. And a second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64475	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm correcting Mr. Stazic's incorrect quote, and when he spoke of penalties related to cleaning cars from snow, he said it was total nonsense. Either he's a respected colleague of the Stazic, or he's driving or he's not driving a car, or he's driving it to the Sahara where there's always 45 degrees and there's never any rain or snow, the intensity of this part of the law just cares about the safety of traffic in the segment when at... There's snow 10 or 15 or 5 centimetres from the last day, you take the car, and after 5, 6 minutes it needs to fit on the brake, and three pounds or four pounds of snow comes down to the front of the glass, even if the driver's a little young and underexperienced, there's no way he doesn't turn left or right, the wiper can't register it, and here's unfortunately a big car accident, it... [[You don't understand.]] from stories for small children than from the lives of all of you or us who were or were drivers today in winter conditions. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64476	Thank you very much. It is still in place in an individual debate, the distinguished representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64477	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the very beginning I'm going to ask a simple question, so I'm going to ask what is really road safety? The answer should be very simple, and he is, safety on the roads is a situation where there is no accident, or where these accidents have as little as possible. Accidents and accidents in road traffic as a result of disability and death disorders, in their total are still at a worrying level, regardless of here as we have heard positive shifts in our country. Road accidents are so much represented in the world, and they view us as special. Let us remind ourselves that today, according to UN estimates, half of humanity lives in settlements that can be classified into cities, cities, especially those in poorer countries, are growing exclusively and chaoticly. Road traffic, regardless of poverty, is growing unfortunately much faster than security. It is predicted that accidents in road traffic by 2020 will come to an infamous third place on the list of leading causes of disability and death disorders, and I will remind you in the 1990s it was the 9th place. What do you need to do? Urbanist solutions need to reduce exposure and dependence on road traffic, better traffic regulation and more stringent measures against irresponsible traffic behaviour should reduce road accidents compared to traffic, increased traffic protection and traffic safety should be reduced when accidents occur, continuous improvement of all first-aid elements should reduce the execution of the consequences of accidents. In the opinion of many experts in the current time of traffic accidents, there is no relevant attention and 2 basic reasons for this are given. People around the world experience fatalist accidents although most of the events and circumstances are within the limits of our control. So they can prevent themselves, or they are not accidents in the literal sense of that word. On the other hand, people are not fully aware of the weight and all the consequences of road accidents and since they can be largely prevented and the severity of the consequences can be lower. Finally, the cost of investment in increased safety is always less than the damages caused by accidents. Too often traffic safety is treated as a transport problem, not as a public-health problem, and traffic injuries are called accidents although these are the most common events that can be avoided. The fact is that many countries invest much more money in understanding and preventing diseases that cause less damage to their society than traffic accidents. This trail should be the work of those responsible in our country as well. And one small depression; on August 17, 1896, a 44-year-old mother of two became the first person ever killed by a motor vehicle. She and her underage daughter went to see a dance performance at a crystal palace in London. As they crossed the land towards the palace, she was hit by a car. Witnesses said the car was going at a terrible rate. He could have walked at a speed of eight miles an hour or it was 12.8 kilometers even though he had to go at a speed of no more than four miles. He was driving a young man, giving himself a blow to show his new invention to some, trying to impress a young companion. In his investigation, the coroner said, "This must never happen again." What happened in the meantime was known. And the facts for example in 1998 say: traffic injuries killed about 1.2 million people. So we're talking about the loss of one Zagreb and 2 Split. Over 70%, nearly 850,000 people killed by car accidents that year were under 45 years old. So, the whole city of Zagreb and that of young people. The injury mortality tends to grow from 5.1 million in the '90s to 8.4 million in the 2020s. With an emphasis on traffic injuries as the biggest cause of this increase. Currently, the deaths of traffic injuries have 2.2% of the global mortality stakes affecting all age groups. Traffic accidents at 9 are among the leading causes of the disease worldwide, counting 2.8% of all deaths and disability. Some 50% of traffic deaths worldwide include young, adults aged 15 to 44, which corresponds to the economically most productive part of the population. Key factors responsible for traffic injuries can and must be prevented as they are driving under the influence of alcohol and other drugs, speeding, non-use of seat belts and children, under-arranged roads, incorrect vehicles, impact of road safety standards. Car accidents aren't just a coincidence, they're a disease. Disease with cause, and removal of cause must necessarily result in a reduction of consequences. The cause is about 95% human factor, remaining technical errors of vehicles and roads. In recent outbreaks of infectious diseases, man gradually adapted to the acquisition of hygiene habits, the construction of sanitary devices, vaccinations, etc. In the present epidemic of traffic accidents, the resulting factor of human nature is changing too slowly and too little. Man’s personality is still insufficiently adapted to the growing role of transport in modern life. That is why ethical norms and plantations of moral maxes and la manhood still prevail in prevention. Statistical observations and observations of traffic controllers reveal that women are less rarely caused by traffic accidents. If that's the case, the other participants should accept the driver's habits. The most common traffic accidents are caused by young people of about 25 years of age. What are the characteristics of these young drivers? These are: youthful defiance, passion, enthusiasm, imitation of idols, underdeveloped social responsibility, aggression, often ethical maturity, instability, impulsive driving, insufficient driving experience, contempt and underestimation of traffic regulations, alcohol or drugs for the weekend. The opposite are characteristics in most women for the driver of the vehicle, as well as most mature and ethically stable midlife drivers, life experience, biological roles strengthened character, thinking ability and judgment, lifestyle, etc. Transport prevention comes down to raising a man, creating and strengthening the responsibility against the life and material values of a young child through a risky young man and to other ways of risky careless people of older age.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64478	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64479	The goal of traffic prevention is to reduce the number of accidents and their consequences because it will never be possible to avoid all accidents. The most important thing is primary prevention, raising a man for a model driver. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64480	Thank you very much. We have one replica, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64481	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, in most of your exposure, I would agree, especially in the matter of prevention. So, from the earliest childhood, children's kindergartens and learning about the transport culture of kindergartens. But I think you've been in some doubt in your first part of exposure regarding a name called a car accident or a car accident. Namely, from a judicial and medical point of view and a traffic accident is an accident in which there is no physical injury or these injuries are minor physical injuries. When it comes to severe physical injuries, life-threatening physical injuries or fatal outcomes, then it is considered a car accident, is it just a little bit from this judicial-medical population. In fact, there's one more thing I'd like to explain from the textbook of this court medicine. At a speed of 50 km per hour they also shoot the most bone whites, so contact with the human body already at a speed of 50 km per hour they shoot and the whitest bones, so the femur or femur in a man. But believe me, we've been witnessing you and I that in the last few days, we've had people running the highway at 250 or 200 miles an hour. Mr. Secretary of State, I suggest both you and the Croatian Parliament that I do not tell those who are crazy, a drastic punishment. If he has a car that drives 250 km per hour, it means it's a very, very expensive car that achieves such speed, then let the penalty be drastic in thousands of euros, so he won't think of it again. I'm here to execute a significant repressive fine cash or any other kind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64482	Thank you. And last in an individual debate, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64483	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Road Safety Act is pleased to go to regular procedure and that what he is also proposed to experience and his corrections in better explaining those things that concern the school above all. I hope that part of the amendment that the employers' associations delivered on behalf of the auto school will adopt. Also, the other important part of the amendment and addition of this law is that local self-government is given an additional autonomy for which urban associations require it to be made more clear and detailed. Here I suggest you believe in these people who work in cities. I don't think it's gonna be too bad if part of their amendments are respected, too. These are two characteristics of these changes and additions. And the third characteristic is that it is somehow touching some traffickers. So here we talk first of all about pedestrians, we talk about bike drivers, motorcycles, drivers, and we talk about police repression. These are the elements that are listed in this law if you drive fast, the police will punish you if you drive left-hand lane instead of right-hand police will punish you. So it comes down to all the participants in traffic and repression. I agree that phenomena such as the fast ride you mentioned really need to be punished by the most severe punishments. But the repression we all know has one limit. The repression is useful to some limit, when we cross that line it's unnecessary we'll learn about it and it's obvious that the vast majority of people won't be able to pay these penalties. Those who often commit the most serious offenses have money and I think that you should make sure that punishment for the same offences can somehow be done in some other change to go towards the property or any other state of the person who commits such an offence, so that I, who have a little higher income, pay more than one who has less for the same offences, I think it would be more useful. I will now say what is wrong with this law here. A law calling for road safety is missing. It is based, of course, on traffic safety but also on the basis of the National Road Safety Strategy. I would be very pleased if we had devoted one article or two, three articles to those who would also make the repression do everything to make the road safety more and better. And that's first of all the ones that are listed in that strategy and haven't done anything yet. So first of all, it would be good to stand, the Ministry of Health will be fined by two million kunas for not doing anything out of its jurisdiction, and based on the Road Safety Strategy. The Ministry of Education will also be punished because it is not with two million with five million kunas because it has done nothing about the Road Traffic Safety Strategy in its own region. So we have the Ministry of Transport and some other ministries, because we have agreed that the safety of road traffic depends not only on drivers or traffic participants, that it is not only on the repression committed by one ministry but on the many factors mentioned in this strategy. It is obvious that the part of the prevention that has been discussed by colleagues and colleagues who have been learning since childhood has not been accepted enough and is not enough in the Ministry of Education and Education is not sufficiently implemented in that strategy. I think that these ministries should also be punished, so this law would have the purpose of making them do what they owed in some way. In any case, if we're on that little example here, a fellow HNS colleague was also told why not punish those who run the roads. Nowhere does it say that the Dionycian Society of the Rijeka-Zagreb highways or Croatian highways will be punished because it has gone in a reckless and unconscious direction on the highway. I'm not talking about it when it starts on purpose, but it just can't happen. It's still as guilty as he is and the driver is so guilty as those who have made such a possibility that they can accidentally go in the wrong direction. And they need to be punished sharply, five million kunas, and somehow they'll remember that it can't happen at all, but just deliberately move in the opposite direction on the highway. I think that this segment of road managers should also find their place in these repressive measures if something is to be done and done. Or from the report, the National Road Safety Strategy, part of that report you listed here, and I think it's a good indicator that we've reduced the number of road deaths. But part of that report applies to something else, there are tax-listed black spots, on our roads that still exist. So is it possible that at that one black spot every time an accident or accident occurs, it's the driver's fault. No, it's the one who didn't take care of such a black spot, and he should either answer criminally or somehow increase the safety of road traffic and be more meaningful. So the repression has one limit, and I agree that these penalties can be as they are. I wish they could somehow rank that those who have more pay more, but obviously that's not going to be possible right now. And yet here's the individual, just taxing, and there's some things that aren't explained enough. You said he was going, and this new bill is going to explain some of the terms. So here's an explanation to make it clear, today we heard this snow-cleaning unfortunate from the car when it starts to traffic. Of course we'll clean it up, but it says it needs to be cleaned up, to where, until, if there's an inch on the roof, is that punishable, it's not punishable. Somehow, it should be resolved in a different way that there is no misunderstanding. Or, of course, I have to take the right lane when I'm driving down the highway, but then it says I can take the left lane and move faster. In that one article I have to drive on the right lane, I can drive on the left if the column of the vehicle, whatever that column of the vehicle means, is two, three, five, at a speed of 130 kilometers per hour. When can I drive that left lane? It's not defined, so you told me when I went around that column. How big is that column when I'm allowed to drive the left lane? So that should be kind of precise. And I agree there's also the marking of pedestrians, but here you've brought, here you have now said both outside and in the settlement we have to wear a vest if we're walking as much, before it was that outside the settlement, now an article says we have to wear it in the village. It's going to be very difficult to implement, and it might be good for us to act preventively then, so I guess we'll get the habit of walking more safely on those roads. And finally, when you started to change this law here I beg you, I beg you, in that old law there is one article left that says that when the winter time is then we turn on the lights on the cars, and when the summer time is then there's no need to turn on the lights on the cars. A law called road safety in such a provision says that someone who writes such a law cares about my safety on the roads for half a year, and the other half of the year doesn't care. Make it right. Either we turn on the lights all year round or we don't turn on the lights because I don't think that's appropriate, that he's only taking care of safety for half a year...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64484	Here's the light, thank you very much. And we have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64485	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, a colleague of Denon made one claim that the repression when he crossed a certain line was unnecessary. I think it's absolutely incorrect because those re-renaissanceists, with those we're witnessing in the media these days, 70, 80 times to re-reciprocate, go into violation. I don't believe that any educational measures other than repressive can help them. Yes, they do. I am a supporter of all that, I am a supporter absolutely that should take all measures into account, but of course these repressive must always remain there as such. And you yourself confirm that because later on you say that there is a need to repress against the Ministry of Health if it has not been carried out, it should be directed towards the Ministry of Education, if they have put in danger with certain actions. So I don't understand your intention either. On the one hand, you say unnecessary, and on the other hand you call for repression. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64486	Thank you. In conclusion, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64487	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to try only briefly to maybe look back at a few debates of some MPs because I don't think they've been well-read or understood, and here they've often been mentioned. First of all, it's about this famous flashing. There have been a lot of comments, although I think in Article 14 of the amendment and the addition of the law, it is quite clear in the context of the whole paragraph, so this ban on flashing refers to driving on highways and when a vehicle is hurried in front of it by giving light signals, means not from hanging. And you'll be allowed to warn another driver on the ordinary state road that there's a police officer behind us and it won't be punishable, but it's punishable by persistent flashing on the highway to distract the driver who drives ahead of you at the speed allowed. It's about that dilemma about flashing. Around the snow, what Mr. Denona said might have been better prescribed, but there were some attempts to verify this norm in such a way that it is completely pointless and completely unnecessary although it says so clearly in Article 14 means that the driver is obliged to clean the vehicle before entering the market. It may happen during driving, traffic, that snow strikes especially in Lika again, but we will indeed try to do so either by better clarification of this article or by instructions to traffic cops to remove this possibility that this provision is being misused and misapplyed and that simply drivers are being punished and for what was not the primary purpose of punishment. As far as pedestrians are concerned, we are also, it is no obstetrics, but we have said that the pedestrian must be marked with a reflective vest, of course it is also punishable if it is not marked, just means walking on a wheel on a public road outside the settlement. There can be no misreading, so someone says they must have a vest in Ban Jelačić Square or elsewhere. It's clear, only on public roads outside the settlement. What was confusing you, Mr. Denona, is for the cyclists. So, we are now introducing a cyclists commitment that in the drive at night and conditions of low visibility they must be marked with a reflective vest not only outside the settlement but also in populated places because unmarked and unmarked cyclists and in the middle of Zagreb suffer if they are not visible enough at some crosses, on roads where there is not enough lighting. I just wanted to explain these three institutes that have been commenting a lot here, and I don't think I've been able to get a good read. By agreeing to be able to do more about these things, we can be clearer, more precise. We'll try to get that thing straight to another reading. Generally, here on behalf of the promoter, I can say that there is no reason for triumphism. I wasn't even trying to show it. I can only conclude that in the past two years 350 lives have been saved. If we had been killed in 2008 in 664, 548, so 116 less. We'll probably be about 400 this year. God forbid some big bus accident or something. So two years of 2009 and 2008 were saved over 350 lives, and we believe that this fact itself is commendable regardless of who is responsible for it and why it came. I can say that we are not saying that this law alone has led to this improvement in road safety. But surely this Law and the work of the police along with some other institutions have helped to make traffic behaviour more responsible and that what is ultimately the goal of all of us to make the death toll smaller. And I'm saying, I hope that these trends will succeed and continue. There have been many proposals and discussions on how to ensure this greater security, even better results. I would just say that every government has different models at its disposal that will try to achieve better results. There have been various attempts, and during the coalition government from 2000 to 2003, auto-schools were in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Education. That's the solution I consider to be a bad one. It hasn't been good since we moved the surveillance of car schools to the MUP, and we think it's one of the measures that must have contributed primarily to improving the quality of teaching in car schools. That gets us more trained drivers, and then all of that comes with less accidents. We are fully aware that improving the state of transport is a painful, demanding job to include not only the MUP, not only police officers but almost all institutions starting with kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools, autoclubs, NGOs, and that we all have to engage together to get close to that target figure, which is 7 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants, which is also legal property, European Union directives. I can only say that I hope that this year we will still succeed in achieving that target number from the government's strategy, which is 10 fatalities. We're now somewhere on nine and a half deaths. I'm saying, here's hoping that we'll really, in December, not have some catastrophic car accident that's really gonna stop these good trends. I agreed to another reading immediately before your debate, because I simply noticed that some solutions could be better. And what might have hit me a little bit the same way was what you said, Mr. Denona, that we would accept car school suggestions. You have seen that in this article 202 we have just accepted one part of the proposal of the car schools that they have exposed through the HUP. Unfortunately, however, after we adopted these proposals, they went back with new proposals. They have also made little problems here, and we will certainly give this problem a little more attention because these measures we have proposed in the draft law on amendments and amendments to the law went first and foremost to make their business a little easier under these difficult conditions. We have received complaints that I agree that the activity of the car school cannot be profitable, but that it is an educational process in which there is a very large responsibility, and therefore we will certainly commit ourselves to another reading in this Article 202 in particular to find this truly quality solution that does not burden the business of the car school in these difficult times. But in no case at the expense of the quality of training, which would ultimately bring about an improvement in road safety. Thank you very much for all these discussions. I am saying that through certain changes to this proposal, we will make an even better law that will certainly be a good basis for these good trends, that the situation in security will be even better and that the dead and the victims will be in traffic as little as possible, because no matter how much life there is no cost of damage from any mortally injured Croatian citizen is enormous and I think that this is the main objective of this Law to prevent material damage, but above all, the death of road users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64488	Thank you. We have three corrections of incorrect allegations. First is Honorable Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64489	Dear Secretary of State, I appreciate that your final review is very acceptable and tolerable and I think we'll get an even more qualitative law in the second reading. What I couldn't agree with is that the assessment that you said was flashing in the column on the tape is a very risky move. I don't think it's, that's an equally risky move to drive, a long ride of someone in a passing lane, because the cross-section should be abandoned as soon as the overrun is done. And the other thing is, we don't have anyone coming on the highway to meet us, and it's our duty to look ahead, on the side, and to observe and not stay on the passing lane. Otherwise, I'd say otherwise if you stayed with this claim, I'd say the Italians are very rude drivers because they're always staring at these highways and asking you to move away. And they drive fast, but they drive safe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64490	It's flashing to you, too. Thank you very much. It is now time to correct the inaccuracies of the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64491	Mr. Secretary of State, I have no other instrument to share, but this correction to the incorrect quote, Mr. Vice President, so allow me here and maybe that's one reason why we're going to another reading to try to understand ourselves better. Maybe it's your interpretation that on foot when it moves day or night, and then even here it says in case of reduced visibility it has to be marked etc. etc. Okay. You only said out of town. But in the light of Article 13, I'm going to go ahead and read it. You're right, but I was also right when I read it like that, so it says it should be changed because it says, "labelled by some source of light or reflective matter, unlike the previous solution that therefore required only pedestrians moving on a public road outside the settlement. So it says here that it's inside the settlement, and that's why it might be necessary to exchange those opinions that somehow... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64492	Thank you. And it is up to the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64493	Mr. Secretary of State, I see good intentions and good faith that this law of yours, therefore in yours, is in order to make this law as precise and as good as possible, which is commendable, but here it is almost, my remark is almost the same as that of the Temple. By example, I'm going to say this correction, if someone is driving a left-hand, narrow lane 100 per hour, and it's allowed 130, how do you get around it? By flashing, by sound? How. And the police won't punish him, he can drive 100 kilometers like that, and on the right, you can't go see if he is. There's no other way than to flash him... There's only that much. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64494	Thank you. These weren't corrections, they were exchanges of views. But good. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64495	We move to the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act is an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 639. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the proposal of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links to discuss this legislative proposal in the ordinary procedure. I therefore vote the following conclusion: "1. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act and 2nd all objections and proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law." Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The result? This proposal was adopted unanimously by 106 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64496	We move to item 4 of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Product Safety Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 660 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Krešimir Rogman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64497	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council and the MPs. The objective of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the General Product Safety Act, with the final proposal for a law, is to apply two decisions of the European Commission. It is the following, therefore, products that are on the market must be safe, and sometimes already in progress, as products are found in the market, so that some products, that some products are not safe, and then they should be banned or restricted. In this context, the European Commission has decided to address these situations with decisions, which are provisional sources of law, and are therefore made because they allow for a relatively fast normisation of what such situations require, and then it is a target, and are temporary because they are then either incorporated into certain directives or normative or normative. So far, four such decisions have been made by the European Commission, one relating to chemical substances called talats, which are in toys. It's embedded in the directive, so that's how it's gonna work out. The second applies to some magnets in children's toys, not to go into detail now, and where two years is given to the competent authorities of the European Union, to solve it with normatives, or standards. And there are two other decisions that we would like to apply now. One refers to lighters that have the appearance of children's toys, which have proved dangerous because children can get burned, cause fire and so forth. Another refers to a type of chemical substance called dimethyl fumarate, which is found in some skin products, causes allergies. Therefore, by adopting this law, the European Commission decision would be applied in a way that would then give orders to withdraw these products from the market, or restrict them, so that they can be on the market. It is also proposed to supplement the law, so that, of course, staying on the product market, which should be banned or withdrawn, so those who are not safe and punished, and yet the aim is in the first order that these products should be withdrawn, especially as sometimes those who produce these products are distributed, and they did not know by the moment that these products are dangerous, so... that those dealers, or distributors of such products, will not, of course, be punished if they voluntarily withdraw it after they know it, or if they withdraw those products within 10 days after the competent authority, which is, of course, the inspectorate warns them of that, then they will not be punished. [[You don't understand.]] And penalties are still imposed for the responsible persons in the legal person who had not existed before, and another additional safeguard provision is also proposed in the sense that if there is no European Union norm, but it is shown that a product is dangerous, so that a decision can be taken in a particular procedure, which would then be limited to the market, or withdrawn from the market. And I must say, Croatia has the obligations of these two decisions of the European Union, i.e. to install the European Commission, so no later than 6 months before its entry into the European Union, so we are now of course within the deadline, and I must also say this text of the law has been sent to the European Commission which agreed with it and positively assessed it, so I propose that the law be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64498	Thank you. The board? Legislative, economic, European integration? I'm opening a debate. HDZ Club, Mrs. Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64499	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected state secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. The proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the General Product Safety Act achieves full compliance with the legal acquis of the European Union in this area. Product safety is a matter of utmost importance both in the Member States of the European Union and in the Republic of Croatia. Consumer protection policy as end-users of products is important for the establishment and functioning of the common market. The measures relating to the safety of products in Chapter 28 of consumer and health protection, legal property of the European Union, relate to the Directive on general product safety, to the 2 Directives on liability for an invalid product and to a directive relating to products which are not as they appear, which are, in fact, dangerous imitations, endangering health or consumer safety. However, it is not uncommon for products to appear on the EU market, which, due to certain ingredients, or methods of production, are not safe for consumers and for which there is no specific regulation that regulates their safety, such as the different types of lighters that Mr. Secretary of State has previously stated, and which are associated with the child's toy when it is possible for the child to reach the same and be injured. Also, some products contain certain chemical compounds such as dimethyl fumarates that can cause serious health problems such as severe allergic reactions. In order to protect consumers on the internal market from such emerging situations, which are not regulated by the specific regulations for which urgent action is required, the European Commission shall make decisions prohibiting or restricting the placing on the market and export of a particular product or batch of products that pose a serious threat. To protect Croatian consumers from such or similar phenomena, the proposed law will allow decisions taken by the European Commission to apply to the Republic of Croatia and before its full membership in the EU. Also on the market, i.e. products appear in use, especially those used in the context of the provision of services, whose safety is not regulated by specific regulations, and for the same, there are appropriate norms. In order to protect the health and safety of consumers in such situations, it is necessary to regulate the conditions and procedures for the safe use of these products or product groups as well as for the supervision of those already in use. The proposed law will achieve full compliance with the EU General Product Safety Act and create conditions for more effective implementation in situations where insecure products appear on the market. The Head of the Central Authority of the State Administration responsible for the general safety of the product will have the power to adopt implementing rules governing the conditions, procedures and means of safe use, i.e. the maintenance of products, in particular those in the context of the provision of services, whose safety is not regulated by specific regulations or for such products there are appropriate norms. This will ensure their safe use, all in order to ensure a high level of health protection and consumer safety, particularly sensitive categories such as this. children. In order to encourage voluntary measures, the competent inspector shall not submit an indictment proposal or bring an infringement order if producers or distributors voluntarily take measures to comply with security requirements or if, through a call for cooperation by the competent authority, carry out all obligations within 10 working days of the date of the call for cooperation. Similarly, if, after the expiry of that period, producers or distributors do not fulfil all the obligations imposed on them, the inspector will submit an indictment proposal or bring an infringement order against that person and, when determining the fine other than the legal person, the person responsible will be sanctioned and sanctioned in the legal person. In this way, it wants to strengthen its responsibility to place insecure products on the market, in order to further implement the policy of product safety in the Republic of Croatia. In this way, the Republic of Croatia will be able to act on time and fully protect its market, but also its consumers from insecure and dangerous products that can possibly be found on the market. The proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the General Product Safety Act presents, as I have previously stated, further harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation and, of course, I would like to stress that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support those laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64500	Thank you. HNS-HSU club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64501	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Under the applicable General Product Safety Act, the safety of products is regulated in a way that only safe products must be offered on the market and that consumers have all relevant information relating to their safety. Unfortunately, products which, due to certain ingredients, are not safe for consumers and for which there is no specific regulation governing their safety are also present on the market. I'm not going to say it again, we've heard an example of a lighter here, we've heard here an example of a product containing certain chemical compounds. So these are examples that represent dangerous or potentially dangerous products on the market. Also on the market, i.e. products appear in use, especially those used in the context of the provision of services, whose safety is not regulated by specific regulations or for the same applicable norms. On the European market, such situations are being controlled by the European Commission whose decisions are prohibited, i.e. restricting the placing on the market and export of such products because they are classified as dangerous products. Croatian consumers must also protect themselves from such phenomena. Under the proposal of this law, all decisions of the European Commission relating to the mentioned problem in the Republic of Croatia and before full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU can be applied. In such a way that the Head of the Central Authority of the State Administration of the Republic of Croatia is responsible for the general safety of the product by order, will prescribe a way of handling the manufacturer, or distributor, and with regard to the dangerous product within 20 days. I repeat, 20 days from the day of the publication of the European Commission's decision in the Official Journal of the European Communities. For us at the HNS Club, HSU, that deadline seems inappropriately long. Why does it take Mr. Secretary of State 20 days to write an order by the head of our state administration? According to the proposal of this law, the manufacturer or distributor also has 10 working days to apply it. Thus, a dangerous product can be on our market for more than 30 days with potential danger to the safety and health of consumers. Why so long? This law further defines the concepts used in the law, so it is said that any product which, in normal or reasonably foreseeable conditions of use, poses no risk or only a minimum risk compatible with the use of the product and which is considered acceptable and consistent with a high level of protection, safety and human health and is a dangerous product that is not consistent with the definition of a safe product. I would also like to mention and underline the definition of dangerous imitation that says that this is a product of misleading looks which is not food, and has a form, smell, color, appearance, packaging, labels, volume or size which, in particular, leads consumers to confusion to replace it for food and thus poses a danger to the health and safety of the child. The following legislation further regulates general safety requirements and criteria for the assessment of conformity of products, infringement provisions, transitional and final provisions. The HNS club, HSU will certainly support this bill, because we think it is a further positive step, but we would like to ask for clarification around these deadlines and, if possible, I would like to ask that these deadlines be reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64502	Thank you. HDSSB Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64503	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The HDSSB Club will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Product Safety Act with the Final Bill. Here we are, little by little, mic by mitz and finally we have reached a fully harmonised EU and Croatian legislation on product quality and safety. In fact, we know that some year or half ago, a year ago, we discussed about the same issue of product safety. And this is now some sort of supplement that she could think of and then could have been done, so that we could and then in that debate when we talked about the quality and safety of the products to include this current bill. Clearly, we too can't imagine in the HDSSB that these deadlines are 20 + 10 days, so from Europe's decision to say so short for the prohibition of certain products because of safety risks, they run for 20 days, and then from our head of the central government for another 10 days. It's a month. So in these months, sales and distribution of this product can be so much that it really endangers consumer safety. So I don't understand even though this is the final bill, I don't know if anything can be done to speed up these deadlines or to shorten these deadlines 20 + 10 let's say that it's 7 + 7 at least that way. Namely, this law refers to products for which there is no specific regulation on the quality and safety of composition, on the form, that is what Mrs Hursa said about dangerous imitation or when we talk about composition and quality, these are products containing chemical products such as dimethylfumarate or other benzene compounds etc. We know that mainly in children's toys and products for children there are such compounds, and we know that today's fast-earning pursuit has led to imports and importers being very lucrative and we know that these products can easily appear on our market, and therefore I welcome the adoption of this General Product Safety Act. And clearly the HDSSB will support him. By defining that encouraging voluntary measures to be carried out by the inspector in charge will contribute to the failure of the inspector to submit an indictment proposal. Secondly, it is called a co-operation call, which is one and the same voluntary measure or call for cooperation for 10 days, and I think it can be shortened that 7 days for such calls for cooperation or a voluntary measure and placing on the market such dangerous products or products as it says here pose a risk to child safety, or contain certain chemical compounds that can cause serious health reactions such as allergies, so I would say certain carcinogenic phenomena in terms of the occurrence of malignant diseases in the organs of certain particularly urinary etc. That we don't go into medicine now. I am personally and Mr Secretary of State, pleased that it is actually a spot-on one urgent reaction that will follow through the publication of the European Commission's decision, and then through the head of the central body of the state administration. But if it is already a spot reaction then let it be spotless and in terms of the time period that has elapsed since the publication of the European Commission and the announcement of our head of the central body of the state administration. If that is the case, there is really no reason to doubt, at all, the well-intentionedness and, clearly, that as the HDSSB club, we will be in favour of adopting this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64504	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64505	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary of State. We have before us a proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the General Product Safety Act with a final proposal which, as the predecessors have already said, is in line with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, and in addition to that, a statement on its compliance with the acquis of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe and in most of the laws that comply with the legislation of the European Union. This is one law, or its amendment, which is one part and interesting and for the general public, and especially when we have opportunities to read in the press or to see in public media certain products, first and foremost I dare say from imports from maybe the Far East or something like that, and not to be apostrophe of either the country or the producer who in today's market game that is present in the whole world are with certain shortcomings and qualities and, let's say, I may not be able to say a hole in the law, but a certain inability to react quickly and quality to this topic which is recognised absolutely and in the European Union first and then, accordingly, in our country. The predecessors have already said that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law and that the safety of the product is, in itself, of exceptional and exceptional importance both in the Member States of the European Union and in the Republic of Croatia, primarily in the light of consumer protection, and on the other hand, the possibility of certain bad consequences for the failure to use such products. Our national legislation of the Republic of Croatia is in line with the legal acquis of the European Union in this area, but certainly there are certain products that are not safe for consumers on our market as well as in Europe, the European Union market, which, first and foremost, do not have specific regulations governing their safety, and I will mention that first and foremost, the possibility of injury which is primarily related to our younger population, especially children and the legal way. The regulation of this problem in order to reduce this potential of injury to the minimum possible extent, and also to certain chemical compounds as components of certain products that may be a threat to their use, is again primarily linked to the use of children themselves, and we are aware that manufacturers in different parts of the world in this marketing game, in the battle for production, often the quality of their products decreases or places them to the least possible extent, taking into account first of all profit. In order to protect consumers on our internal market from such a emerging situation, and therefore I repeat those are not regulated by certain specific regulations, the European Commission is making exactly those decisions that prohibit or restrict the placing on the market and through the export of certain products or batches of products that pose a serious threat. In order for our Croatian consumers to be protected on the market of such phenomena, this law allows decisions to be made by the European Commission and in the Republic of Croatia not from the moment of our entry into full membership, but before that, the time limit that is certainly in our favour. In addition, the General Product Safety Act encourages voluntary behaviour of manufacturers and distributors in this topic, but it is very often shown in some cases that, in order to strengthen the responsibility for placing such insecure products on the market, it is necessary to sanction or prescribe sanctions not only for legal persons but also for a responsible person in a legal person in order to place such uncertainty on as little as possible. This proposed law will certainly achieve this full compliance of the General Product Safety Act with the legal property of the European Union in this area and create conditions for more effective implementation, and in a situation where such insecure products and products appear on the market. As colleagues have said, due to the high level of protection, decisions taken by the European Commission, which relate to the subject of dangerous product, will also apply in the Republic of Croatia in such a way that within 20 days, which has been discussed at this point, whether or not it is possible to reduce that deadline, the publication of that decision by the European Commission, where, in the official vote of the European Community, the Head of the Central Authority of the State Administration must prescribe the way the manufacturer or distributor should act, and concerning the dangerous product. I want to say here and welcome the idea of volunteering, and that means that a distributor or producer is being warned about the non-compliance of this law in the appropriate time finds a solution or such a product withdraws from the market itself or is being remedied in another appropriate way, that sanctions are not prescribed for me to welcome. And it is also clear that the non-compliance with such legislation and in accordance with this new bill of law, i.e. amendments to the law, should be sanctioned and, accordingly, the proposal for this law on amendments and additions to the general product safety law, with the final proposal, and I support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64506	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64507	Thank you very much. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, MPs. So this General Product Safety Act is certainly an important item and link in the safety of production, especially the protection of manufacturers as users of these products. This functioning of Croatia within this common European market is our obligation, but even moreover, the translation of these directives and legal provisions of Europe is even more and more important and the obligation not only to align our regulations as a future member but also to create one security for our consumers, which is certainly one of the basic needs why we are constantly supplementing this Safety Act and to make certain amendments and additions to this Product Safety Act. Because protecting the safety of consumers normally shows the need and certain examples and certain elements of each product. Here when mentioning product characteristics, especially its composition, packaging, assembly instructions, and if necessary... Keeping normal that we are aware that often times exactly what Boro used to say is a quick-to-earth drive normally leads to the fact that often times we do not have safe products, that often times under imitation we talk about a quality product and normally that in such a situation such products can cause certain problems with consumers especially if they fall into a group of products that can endanger health and even life, and even here there have already been talks about products that use I don't know could harm children or anyone else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second thing, the question of the joint impact of one product on another and the normal prediction that one in synergy can create even greater problems is also one example where the product can be insecure and lead to problems. What is often characteristic is precisely the question of presenting and marking and certain instructions on these products as they are used. Well, we especially have cases of those toys I don't know, etc. children where so little is written that they can't, I don't know who can read often instructions on a particular product, and normally that's one of the problems that can cause such instructions and labelling to make this product insecure, or to cause problems with consumers. And also what was said in the category of producers using this product, and they go from the smallest population to adults and older people. Normally, they're more at risk if we have products that aren't safe. Normally that toys with certain colors or some toxic etc. may be a danger to certain categories of consumers. How to protect from insecure products? I think that's one of the questions that these amendments of the law are normally trying to solve. We do, however, have a phenomenon that even in the papers we see certain laboratories appear, I don't even know if they have some support for even ministries, etc., to give certain certificates on product quality. I think that all of this has its price and often certain products, or manufacturers of these products, go to that part to get one certificate and think that they have solved this product safety problem. Of course, it costs everything and collects such a product, but I think it's still the implementation of this law that we're saying is one security that encourages first-class volunteering. It means that in one quality way, both the manufacturer and the distributor, not to say cheer, but to understand what the safety of this product means and why it should be safe for the manufacturer. But there's a very appropriate way of doing this. It is likely that this is also translated in some way, that such things of such volunteering in developed European countries are present and that normally no one can imagine that they produce a product that is dangerous. However, even if he finds himself as such, he reacts very quickly to get rid of him. However, I think that often times this awareness of manufacturers and distributors will not be focused solely on this part of volunteering but will sometimes need to be applied this second part of the issue of sanctions, certain penalties, based on the application of the competent inspector. All this suggests that this General Product Safety Act, these additions and amendments that are now present are necessary and that our inclusion in the European course of the common market and through this way should be resolved. However, I end up thinking that the basic objective will still be met if those products on the market are such that the consumer has certain security when buying it and that it will not endanger its health or even life. When that goal is fulfilled then we will surely be able to say that the implementation of this law is also real and live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64508	Thank you. Final review of Secretary of State Kresimir Rogman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64509	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Just a quick word about the deadlines we were talking about. So 20 days, we did not set it ourselves, but we took it from the general product safety directive, where Article 13 says Member States are taking all the necessary measures to implement the decisions, this is about those decisions that are... The law, within 20 days, and then says further unless otherwise specified in those decisions. [[You don't understand.]] So 20 days is a standard deadline, and then if it's about products that would be a serious risk, then in the decision itself, it would be a shorter deadline. And the second question 10 days after the warning, clearly if it were one product that would have a serious risk, it should be seen in line with the definition of serious risk, which requires the quick action of the competent authority, including the risk consequences are not current, in such a case even the inspection would not then be estimating that the serious risk should be and should then be left to that period of 10 days, but then the deadline itself would not, for the command, be 20 days, but would be shorter. And let me just say two more things. One question is the size of a letter, it is true that letters can be so small that they are not readable, but there are no regulations of the European Union that regulate it, and we ourselves cannot, unfortunately, do so, because it would be a violation of the freedom of movement of goods, so we would then prevent goods from the European Union, we would set a standard that is not a standard of the European Union. And finally, let me just say about the toys, so that directive that's being mentioned, that concerns... , so there was a decision that was translated into a directive and as far as toys are concerned, and that directive was then implemented by us in the health ministry regulation that regulates the question of toys, that is, the special rule. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64510	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64511	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Product Safety Act. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 660, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the general product safety law. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted unanimously, with 109 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64512	We move to the next point - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Open Universitys, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 621 Proposer of the Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, education, science and culture, and local, regional self-government. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, Želimir Janjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64513	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. Let me say in a few sentences about the law and the amendments submitted. So these amendments to the Law on Public Open University are passed on the founding rights from the Republic of Croatia to the city of Zagreb, it is actually about the Puck Open University of Zagreb, which was over which they had founding rights and state and city in equal proportions. I'll briefly just remind you that '93. the year of the Company Act, and later in '97. and '98. The Law on the Open Universitys of the Republic of Croatia passed its founding rights on to all, in the popular open universities to all cities that have seats in certain cities except the city of Zagreb. So that's where the state and the city stayed with the same share in founding rights. Of course it does not imply ownership rights, and in agreements with the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, we have come to these solutions. I would, therefore, first of all like to thank the Committee on Local, or Regional Self-Government, which unanimously supported the adoption of these amendments to the law, and I would also like to thank President Selem and the members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, who have helped us to finally define these amendments to the laws. Therefore, on behalf of the promoter, I would like to start by saying that I would not have to take the floor at the end of this debate, that the motioner accepts both amendments of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, and that then actually means that we are ultimately transferring founding rights to the city of Zagreb, without any conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64514	Thank you. Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Committee Chairman, Mr. Representative Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64515	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 33rd session of 20 October and 34th session of 25 November 2010 the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on open universities with the final proposal for a law. It's already out of these two... You can see that the committee has twice considered the proposed law and that it has passed a consistent procedure of getting acquainted with all the elements of the proposed law and that it is ultimately the result of this work, and working together with the Secretary of State and with the ministry have resulted in these two amendments which we are about to submit here and which the Proposer has adopted. [[You don't understand.]] The Committee discussed the issue as a parent working body, in its opening statement, a representative of the proposings, according to the motion to amend the circumstances that there were major difficulties in managing the open schools in Zagreb, a public institution, over which the founding rights were divided between the Republic of Croatia and the city of Zagreb. This suggests that the sole holder of founding rights be the city of Zagreb, as you heard in the State Secretary's presentation, in all other cities where there are such open universities. In the debate, the view prevailed that property law should not be dealt with by the proposed law, which also took place in the proposed amendment, and with such an approach was agreed by the proposing representative. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law amending the Law on Open Universitys, with the following amendments. Amendment one in Article 1 after number 54/97 shall be deleted in a letter and the point shall be added and the decision of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia shall be added after 5/98 ISPR. Explanation. Since the decision of the Administrative Court in this matter is a source of law, this should also be stated. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on open-air colleges. Amendment 2, Article 4 is deleted. It was an amendment that referred to an agreement between the state and the city on ownership rights. Article 5 shall become Article 4 and Article 6 shall become Article 5. Explanation. The proposed Article 4 creates recommendations at the level of interpretation and is proposed to be deleted. Since the proposed law is intended to address the issues of founding rights at the open schools in Zagreb, not property-legal relations. The transfer of the founding rights of the Pukko Open University institution to the City of Zagreb does not in any way affect ownership rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64516	Thank you. Local and regional self-government, legislation? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club Mr. Representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64517	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will try briefly, but really briefly, given that the proposal for amending the law is also relatively short to express the SDP's position. I am pleased that, although this law went into emergency procedure, at this speed and emergency procedure, we managed to get a better solution than the one originally proposed and it really wasn't, let's not go too far into history, nor the boredom of reason or too many reasons for Pučko open school in the City of Zagreb to be treated differently than other open schools in Croatia, because only then the Pučko Open School in the City of Zagreb was divided when it comes to co-ownership, i.e. management rights, the founding rights between the state and the city while all the other public schools were open, when it comes to founding rights, in the authority of the units of local self-government. This law, if I may say so, corrects it, which is fine, and we also see from reason, and the Government admits that because of that, but not only because of that, but also because of that, there have been some problems in the functioning and functioning of the Open University. So obviously when two founders are that it's a little bit inefficient than it is when it's one founder. And since the founder of local self-government units is everywhere else, there is no reason not to be in the City of Zagreb. In that sense, the SDP club will support the law intensities, especially when we ourselves are through a debate on committees, and today we have heard from the chairman of the board and from the representatives of the motion that this amendment is about relations between the city and the state not to be treated by this law, which we consider to be right. Therefore, respecting the position of the applicant to respect the amendment of the SDP Club Committee, it will support such a proposal with this amended, so with this amendment, the amended proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64518	Thank you. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64519	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Well, there are a lot of problems in the Puck Open University long ago, but I have to say that my colleague Jelusic is not, these problems are not the result of founding rights, but are the result of poor selection of people who worked and managed Pučka open school. It was the only problem, and it resulted in all the difficulties and inefficient management. Well, let's get back to history. The city of Zagreb and the Government of the Republic of Croatia had 50% of the founding rights in the Pučka Open University, which is the legal successor of the Moša Pijada Labour University. And as a legal follower who was enrolled in land books as owner and building and land Pučko open school was also enrolled in land books. The city of Zagreb was founded by the Centre for Culture, which he employed 9, I think, employees and the Centre for Culture, which, in the 100% ownership of the City of Zagreb, sued Pucko Open School for ownership of the building, i.e. the entire property. In his first-degree judgment, he also received the owner of 50% of the Centre for Culture of the Building, and 50% of the Pučko Open School. The lawsuit has been challenged and is now being resolved in the second degree. So, one completely unsolved property-legal relationship was. After that, it joined, to resolve this property-legal relationship, joined the accession of the Centre for Culture to the Pučko Open University, which was also done, and thus the property-legal relationship was resolved, so there is no more Culture Centre than the Pučko Open School in Co-owned by the 50-50 Government of the Republic of Croatia and the City of Zagreb's Headship is in 100% ownership and real estate. Meanwhile, many reported having the right to property. So they were based on the Law on the Open Schools of the People's Republic, which was published in '97. year, and it read: from the provisions of paragraph 1 of this article, on the date of entry into force of this law, the Pučko Open School became the owner of the property and property of the building in the street of the City of Vukovar, except for the parts of the building that the owners become the Institute of Art History in Zagreb, the Institute of Archaeology and the University of Zagreb, and everyone in the section they really own and benefit from. The Constitutional Court has abolished these provisions. Therefore, they have no legal basis for co-ownership over the property of any other institution and neither is the Welding Institute that does not have in the process of redesigning and privatization in the real estate statement part of the property from that location. So no one but the Open University has property rights there. After the merger, there was an unloved scene, the director was removed by force, suddenly, not given up, so they had to take it out. It was taken by security guards by hands and feet and accompanied by the police to take it out of the workplace.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64520	Did you wear it?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64521	He was wearing it. And resisted even.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64522	Oh, how painful.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64523	Yeah. Afterwards, they appointed another director, and it was found that the former had the right to pay several salaries, sued the Pucko Court for open school and received a first-degree ruling. You can't make any progress, but it's only because people who aren't competent to do that job have always chosen each other. Afterwards, the second principal who was only a temporary principal was appointed and then the second director who was only 3 days later was replaced because, in the meantime, he received a contract of a million kuna of severance if he did not happen to be further director. He's not the principal anymore either. At the same time, the previous President of the Governing Council wanted the High School of Business founded by the Open School to privatise and sell to a private one, so it failed either. Apparently one was, there was a large amount of riots and imbalances there. It is now an opportunity to transfer the founding rights to the City of Zagreb to finally and responsibility be on one subject. That there is no longer a shared responsibility to the ministry and to the city, to know who is responsible. But it also needs to be concerned that the Open School is on the market, that it does not receive budget funds and that it has a high business school that needs to retain the dignity that needs to be maintained and there has been a dean shift suddenly as well. I think it's finally time to take some long-term moves that will certainly be innate for the Open School to fit the time required in the education system as well as in the higher education system. Supports the HDZ Club to delete amendments and the 1st and 2nd parent committees in particular when it comes to eradicating Article 4 but I think it does nothing because the Republic of Croatia and then has no ownership rights further after the entry into force of this law. It is very important for this institution who will be in the governing council, which members, who will be the director of the Public Open School, that it is a competent person, not to be placed by the system under which they are currently being placed in the city of Zagreb where, after the university is completed, they immediately become directors of individual branches and college companies not at work but at the place of director. And then there's the difficulty, the brakes in the decisions, no one's capable of doing anything quality, and they're just postponing decisions, making sudden changes, and they think that the world is starting with what they've come up with the day they're coming to the director's office, and they think that this institution is starting. And that's how they treated each and every one of them at the Open School. And Pučko Open School is an institution that has been in existence for decades and should be respected. A lot of people think if they finished college, they put on a suit so they could be directors right away. Well, it's not like anyone who hits a hammer isn't a blacksmith, so not everyone who finishes college can be a director. But in the Open University, problems have accumulated, and these problems need to be solved. For years, there's been a nightclub there for 15 years, imagine at Pucci Open University Disco. A thousand squares and doesn't pay anyone a rent or even have a legal person to be there. Also the Welding Institute. Imagine you're entering the Puck Open School and it's like you're entering a shipyard. There's no contract, no one pays anything. There were claims, disputed with Croatian studies, disputed with the university court dispute. Finally, someone needs to start dealing with it, and don't act like you don't do today what you can leave for the day after tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64524	Thank you. Club of HSS Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64525	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We've heard a lot about these amendments to the law. I'm going to try to get a few sentences out of the HSS position. In this introductory explanation of the proposal for a law, the Proposer shall explain to us that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 4(1). The Law on the Public Open Schools of the adult education organisation is organised under the provisions of the Company Act. Also on the date of entry into force of the Law on the Open Universitys of Pučka became public institutions and owners of the funds over which they have the right to dispose or use, and founding rights over them as public institutions have been acquired by units of local self-government in whose territory their headquarters is located. In accordance with paragraph 2 of the same article, the founding law at the Open University of Zagreb, which took effect on the date of the entry into force of the Law on the Open University of Pučko, became a Pučko Open School in Zagreb, was acquired by the Republic of Zagreb in equal parts. Article 2 of the Treaty concluded on 8 June 1998 between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the City of Zagreb agreed that the right to be established on behalf of the Republic of Croatia over the Open School shall be realized by the Ministry of Education and Sport and the Ministry of Culture, and on behalf of the City of Zagreb, the Head of the City of Zagreb, unless otherwise specified for some questions. Since there are major difficulties in managing the Public Open School in Zagreb as a result of the division of founding rights between the Republic of Zagreb, this legislative proposal proposes that the provisions of Article 4(2) be deleted. The Law on Pučko Open universities and the regulation of the transfer of founding rights over the Pučka Open School in Zagreb from the Republic of Zagreb to the city of Zagreb, so that the city of Zagreb is the only founder of the Pučko Open School in Zagreb. It is also proposed to adopt a provision under which the Republic of Zagreb and the City of Zagreb, within 30 days of the entry into force of this law, will resolve all property legal and other relations arising from the founding rights of the Public Open School in Zagreb as well as provisions under which the Public Open School in Zagreb, within 30 days of the entry of this law, will bring its general acts into line with this law. Also, as the Ministry of Education has changed its name since the entry into force of the Public Open University Act, it is also proposed that in the provision of Article 3 of the Law, the words of education and sports are replaced by the words of the minister responsible for education. Comments to the proposal of the Law on the Public Open University of the Club of Representatives of the HSS were also submitted by the Rector of the University of Zagreb, who called for the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia as of 20 September 1999, to point out that the adoption of the draft Law amending the Law on the Open University would cause damage to the values of constitutional order, the rule of law and the integrity of ownership and proposed an amendment to the draft law in order to remove that irregularity. The report of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament shows that the University of Zagreb's observations were considered and adopted and some amendments were proposed to remove irregularities. In this regard, and we have done so on committees, the HSS Representatives Club will support this bill and we also express our satisfaction with the timely involvement of the academic community in the process of passing laws and achieving quality dialogue with the legislative body and ultimately finding and adopting the right solution for identified irregularities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64526	Thank you. Club representatives of HSS and HSU Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64527	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. On about the benign thing, the benign bill proposal, very short, very simple, and behind it hides so many problems, so many circuses and scandals, and it is amazing that it took the proposer 13 years to see the senselessness of a provision which the Pucko Open School in Zagreb fully discriminated against all other institutions of similar type. And for what? It is clear, therefore, that all this happened because of Article 4(3) of that Law, which was eventually deleted by the Constitutional Court and no less than 11 years ago. In the meantime, this almost impossible situation, the unsustainable state of one founding, ownership and management dualism has created so many problems that unfortunately today the public in Croatia has opened universities mostly associate through this scandal and circus in Zagreb, and we need it. Besides, the state's working in the long run for the survival of open-school regiments in the long run, I'd say an identity crisis. After the 1970s and 1980s, when it was possible to develop a whole series of high-quality, good, valuable activities that sometimes meant that this institution was not only educational but also cultural, roof institution in many cities in the Republic of Croatia. In the '90s, they brought a whole series of changes, so the colleges under their roof had auto-schools, radio stations, libraries and many other facilities in the meantime lost them. There's open-air colleges out there that's been sold out. The concept of lifelong learning that we were so looking forward to in the late '90s as one new concept that would certainly help under one that our educational structure, which is extremely bad, is being improved, on the other hand, that the open universities are being placed in the function of this programme and on the third hand, to stop experiencing open schools as places where they learn English, German, Italian, whining, binding and colouring silk, because there are a whole series of other important programs that can be developed but that are not competitive on the market at this time. In the 1980s, there were no such private language school in Croatia, private courses and associations dealing with various educational programmes that are currently directly competing with popular open universities. The only segment in which popular open universities generally do not oppose competition because it is a non-profit activity is culture. And where this culture succeeds, it develops from an idea into a great program, then politics comes and crushes it like in the case of Velika Gorica. In Zagreb, the consequences of such a schlemper and circus are amazing. At this time, we have three directors of the Public Open University in Zagreb, one whom the court has returned to work because he has been illegally removed, the other who has been elected as performer of office and the third who has been elected in a competition that has been annulled in the meantime. Through the story of the salary of the Director of the Public Open University in Zagreb, the work and great efforts of dozens and dozens of directors of the open universities in the Republic of Croatia were contaminated, and all because someone like the rams on the escalatory of how to manage the property of the Public Open University in Zagreb. And what my colleague Maric said when you came to that building at first sight was strange who was hiding everything under that roof, but what's even weirder, that the unpaid claims of a mere open school to those living under his roof grew to 12 million kuna. Well, it's a crime on its own. I may have old data, Mr. Maric, but it may have grown in the meantime. Anyway, neither one knows who's drinking nor who's paying, and one very prominent and important institution can't actually work. And now we are offered something that is an emergency procedure, in haste, behind which is actually the agreement of the Ministry of Science on the one hand and Mayor Bandic on the other hand, where we all refuse the fact that in the case of the Public Open University in Zagreb, there is an incredible usurpation of powers where the mayor of Bandic is the one who appoints members of the Administrative Council. Neither does it have a foothold in the Law on Local, Regional Regional Self-Government, nor does it have a foothold in the Law on Open Universitys, nor does it have a foothold in the Law on Institutions. No public open school in Croatia, except for this in Zagreb, is led by people appointed by the mayor because in the case of all institutions of persons sitting in the administrative councils on behalf of the city as founders are persons appointed by the city council or city hall. Why are we keeping it quiet? Is it true that Minister Fuchs agreed with Mr Bandic that as soon as the management rights situation is resolved within the deadline, the property issue will be immediately resolved in a way that the country's share of the popular open school is replaced by apartments for the needs of scientific recruits. If true, let it be said clearly and loudly, to know exactly what the state has left to get something because, as the city needs an attractive location on Trnje and the Ministry of Science, they need apartments for recruits. But let's not hide, let's just say loud and clear, which will be the result of the MPs making this decision 13 years after it was wrongly planted. In the Zagreb City Assembly, which is also being silenced during the process, i.e. a special interpretation was submitted on 9 September 2010 and a debate on the state of the Pučko Open School and the resolution of these issues is pending. Is the promoter aware that the city of Zagreb as co-founder of the Public Open University has its own City Assembly and that the City Assembly is the one that, by the Law on Local Self-Government and by the Law on Institutions and by the Law on Public Universitys, is appointed by the people who manage the Public School, and they then choose the Director. If that is so, it would not be bad for the promoter to maintain communication with the City of Zagreb Assembly, not only with Mayor Bandic. However, however, the mayor of Bandic is legally a legal representative or official representative of the City of Zagreb and he has the right to own even property up to the amount of a million kuna without knowledge, or the approval of the City Assembly. But it seems to me that this is about something far more valuable. I hope the Proposer is aware of that. On behalf of the HNS and HSU Club, I therefore regret that there has been an emergency procedure, not a regular one, so that in the first reading of this matter we can discuss it properly, and then the Proposer applies or amends his proposals or that the solution is good, quality, non-discriminatory, which does not hide any intentions or effects of such a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64528	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64529	Thank you very much. I'd rather rephrase it to you, but I don't have any business opportunities, so I have to say that there's no trade like you said, because the government is transferring its founding rights to the city, and it doesn't get anything for it. There's no store at all. As for the outstanding outstanding claims that you made 12 million kunas. In the balance sheet, and that's the only official document there is no record of so many claims. But they're onto that data, aren't they? So much should be paid by those who didn't pay, but their invoices weren't set because they had no basis for what, no contract. That's why one nightclub, one OTV, all these tenants there have been paying nothing for years and this is a calculation of what they would probably pay to be invoiced, but there are no claims like the Croatian studies because they didn't have contracts to present to him a invoice that would be sent to the Croatian study. Then they recorded with them such millions of kunas of debt, and in fact they didn't show in the balance because they would have to pay VAT, so these invoices ended up in the basket. But that's not how it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64530	I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the 2009 Retirement Fund Report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-01-0.u64531	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Open Universitys. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 621, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Open Universitys. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted unanimously by 109 votes, along with the amendments adopted. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We continue with the work of the 20th session, with the agenda point announced for this morning, which is - - Report of the Pension Fund for 2009 Carrier of the Central State Office for Development Strategy and Coordination of the European Union Funds. The Central State Office for the Development Strategy and the Coordination of European Union Funds submitted this report on the basis of Article 35. Retirement fund law. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr Hrvoje Dolenec, State Secretary of the Central State Office for Development Strategy and Coordination of European Union Funds. Here you go.
