ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62221	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Croatian Parliament. As the Vice President has said, I submit this report to the provisions of Article 12(8). The Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, and I remind you that this provision reads: "The Ombudsman in his annual report, and, if necessary, reports the Croatian Parliament on the occurrences of discrimination." Therefore, the obligation to report to the Assembly is the obligation of the Ombudsman as a central body, with special defenders who play a very important role in performing part of the work under the law not explicitly obliged to give special reports to the Croatian Parliament. As you can see, we have decided on a special report this time, not as part of a regular annual report, and we have done it for two fundamental reasons. First, this is our first report, and the special report allows for a little broader processing and fuller insight into what needs to be made possible to the Assembly, as well as to the working bodies to be made manifest and to make comments and suggestions and about the future way of reporting and, of course, the data and assessments that the Ombudsman makes in his report. Second, we went to a special report because of deadlines. When drawing up a report under the law, the Advocate General is obliged to collect records and statistics of special lawyers and the Ministry of Justice on cases relating to discrimination. But it is also required to consult the social partners of the civil society organisation, the religious community, the alliance for national minorities. So, and associations dealing with certain groups. This is in accordance with Articles 14 and 15. The Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. As regards the integrity of this Report, therefore, you have seen in some way the participation of the special Ombudsmans in it that it contains a very brief overview of the data and activities of the special Ombudsmans, as they have already reported in the regular annual reports to the Assembly on the occurrences of discrimination and their activities in that area, i.e. in the areas covered by them. In their contributions to this Report, the Advocate General has neither been able to intervene nor to comment on them in particular. I gave this introduction precisely because we are now and ahead of the next reports probably early next year, and it seems to me, on the basis of this year's experience, that they should, in principle, be prepared as part of a regular annual report by the Ombudsman, with the fact that, of course, it should be contained and such a report should also be included in the joint, aggregated data of all, therefore, the Ombudsman and the special defenders of the data which, at this point, due to the lack of support for the information and programme that they are just ahead of us, was not possible to give more complete. In that sense, my proposal would be to have future reports of the Ombudsman and the special prosecutor debated at the same session. Of course, I don't think it's one item on the agenda, it's a special point. But in some ways, they can be concessive at the same time so that you can get a full picture. Of course, we expect your opinions on such a way of working. Very short on the content of the report, because as a special report it is quite extensive. The introduction is a little wider because we felt that the first year might also need to give some information to say, or to warn of some legal circumstances, on the international framework, etc. The second part that is important about this report is the handling of citizens' reports and complaints. When considering this part, it is necessary to bear in mind that the Advocate General does not determine discrimination, nor does he make final decisions on when it occurred, especially in individual cases. Therefore, according to the law, the Advocate General provides notices, assists parties, assists them in the context of the application, provides notices on the rights and possibilities of judicial and other protection, and, until possible initiation of the court proceedings, examines the applications and takes the actions necessary to eliminate discrimination and the protection of the rights of the discriminated person. The powers of the occupier in that part of the job are not significantly greater than those in the work of the other complaints under the Law on the Ombudsman. So that's mediation, that's warning, that's recommendations. The only important authority is if such a situation arises and, with the agreement of both sides, it can organise a settlement until outside the court settlement. Therefore, it has the possibility of proposing, recommending and warning, and it is important that its authority guides and assesses in some way the parties what they need to do to protect themselves against the court and whether and under what conditions judicial protection is possible. Just very brief on that data. As far as the number of complaints is concerned, I'm talking about the attorney general, so not in total. The total information on all applications shall be at the end of the report and shall include the work of the Special Advocate. The occupier received 172 complaints of which 130 were resolved. As far as the complainants are concerned, they're mostly almost in three quarters, they're natural persons, of which only 9 by lawyer, so directly, more than double the number of men, they're 62%, 25% are women. When you look at the data, of course, of course, with the attorney for gender equality, then the situation is reversed, with the largest number of complaints, and the application has been filed by women. In addition to natural persons, one part of the complaint, in particular 16 were filed by NGOs and trade unions of 4 complaints. In the case of the complainants, the most likely is the authorities of the state administration. Then legal persons, public administration bodies 71, legal persons 40, then there are legal persons with public authority, which is interesting judicial authorities 18 cases, and local authorities in 10 cases. At least complaints against natural persons, or NGOs, are 5 to 7 complaints. With regard to discriminatory grounds, the most complaints about discrimination by nationality and ethnic origin, it is about, something over 30% of all complaints. Under the attorney general, social status, social background, property, education, union membership, and, of course, when the attorneys are involved is special then it comes first in sex, sexual orientation and then in the high place is disability as a basis. As far as the area is expected, it is an area of work and employment with 32% of the total number, then again what is interesting is the judiciary and administration, but I can immediately point out that this is a large number of unfounded complaints, and dissatisfaction and outcomes... procedures, judicial procedures, etc. [[You don't understand.]] Then there is access to goods and services to a significant extent, as well as social security, meaning pension, health insurance, unemployment, etc. Is what should be pointed out immediately, and that is that all of this information should be taken as one indicator and as a perception, but should be taken with respect to both discriminatory grounds and as regards the area of discrimination, with a certain reserve, because it is indeed a large number of unfounded complaints. And it either takes a face or after a certain examination. This is best visible in Table 4, where we have shown how to solve objects. In addition to this table, we stressed that out of 130 resolved cases, in only 32 cases, the Ombudsman acted under the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, so where he found that there was a possibility, i.e. a reasonable suspicion of discrimination. In these cases, the Ombudsman, of course, is acting under all those powers he has under Article 12, which means that he referred persons to the possibility of judicial protection, then intervened, to seek the evidence from the accused bodies, and many of these cases have not been completed, of course. Therefore, it should also be said that of these 32 cases, the final court will be able to be given only after they have been completed, and in many cases only after the judicial proceedings have been brought to an end. So we can say, in fact, that we won't have any more permanent court practice under this law for long, since we know how long procedures are going on, even if it's an emergency procedure here under the law. In the follow-up to the report, we have summarised how far this has been possible for us, the situation and inequality of certain social categories and groups that, according to our assessment, are exposed to the greatest risk of discrimination, i.e. social exclusion. This is about national minorities, especially Serbs, returnees and refugees, then Roma, which is not to be specifically talked about, but we have also warned about the risk of inequality and discrimination of those socially endangered, or those worst assets with the expectation that we will probably focus most on this in the next period and where we really need to go and propose very concrete measures on the basis of certain research. We've only discussed the subject, so far we've addressed the subject of free legal aid, the possibility and access to the court, while others will. So this part of the report is based on the documents already in this House, which have been discussed, which are available to us, reports and state bodies, and NGOs and international organisations, but primarily I would say on the work of a public defender. What really needs to be pointed out is that the attorney general is not involved in discrimination since the adoption of this law. A large number of complaints have so far been complaints, only that we did not have a law on which judicial protection is and some things are more detailed, etc. So that part is one warning that will need the most attention in the next period. Then we also showed us the data available for the time being on court proceedings. As you saw in 2009. 7 criminal proceedings were brought before courts under Article 174. KZ, there were only two lawsuits under Article 17. The Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. We explained in the report that there are problems in the statistical monitoring of court cases, because under the Law on Discrimination there is an article 16 that refers to a situation where someone calls for discrimination and decides on someone else as the main issue. Unfortunately, judicial statistics and records still do not allow a precise number of such cases, however, we are in negotiations with both the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court, in some ways trying to get as many of these data as possible accurately, so that they can be accurately shown in the reports. In any case, the situation is similar to that before the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. It's a very small number of court proceedings. We'll definitely comment on that, too. People are reluctant to decide on court proceedings, they know they last a long time, they know it usually costs them a lot. However, I think that after that first year, all those campaigns, research, education, etc. will take place. that the situation would be different. As far as IDP data are concerned, there have been six criminal charges, then 32 crimes, so-called. hate crimes and 130 approximately violations under other laws, public order or peace under the Law on the Prevention of Disturbation in Sports with Discrimination Elements. Finally, we have described 4 examples of our actions precisely to point to the diversity of access and the diversity of objects that come to us and we have described cooperation with NGOs, i.e. civil society, therefore, and trade unions quite extensively. Thus, it also shows how much of these obligations under the law were respected and how responding it was. Then we described all promotional and educational activities under the "Progress Project" which was done together with the Office for Human Rights and the Centro for Peace Studies. What I really need to mention is that all these activities, therefore, and education and campaigns and research, were in fact taking place in 2009. Therefore, before the law itself was passed, it was not possible to carry out all those preparations in order to be prepared at the very beginning of the application of the law. So, only at the end of 2009, which this report speaks of, in some ways, did we spend most of these promotional and educational activities. Now, just at the end of the closing notice. I pointed out in particular that after the first year of application, it is still too early to assess the effects of the law, but also for more thorough assessments of the degree and extent of discrimination as well as the spread of discrimination under the law of prohibited grounds, i.e. areas in which it occurs most often. There we also stressed that the largest number of applications is unfounded. That even in many of them it is apparent that there is no discrimination because there is neither an uneven treatment nor a forbidden basis for discrimination, hence the underlying conditions for possible suspicion of discrimination. We also noted that the assessment of the current effects of the law makes it difficult and observed shortcomings in the record of the statistical monitoring of cases and the negligible number of court proceedings initiated under Article 17 and, of course, we do not expect, I think in the report for the following year, much more precise data and evaluations of court proceedings and case-law. Secondly, we said that one part of the report is based on what I was talking about, and that's the experience and data of years of work, and also on grades from other sources. Based on these sources and our experience, we have warned of the social groups most exposed to discrimination and the risk of less or greater social exclusion. Of course, the assessments of discrimination, i.e. the unequal situation of women, gender minorities and persons with disabilities, shall include reports of special defenders covering the area. The emphasis will continue to be on protection, full attention to the protection of these groups, including the Government and the Parliament's proposed policies and measures, both for the possible adoption and amendment of the rules. And in the end, but perhaps not least, we finally stressed that the Ombudsman had made it difficult and, with great effort, had achieved his role. You are likely to know that when the law was passed, therefore in that form and in the assessment of the financial resources necessary for the implementation of the law, funds have already been provided for 2009 from millions and 200 thousand kuna. So, 500 grand for 3 new employees and the rest for calming, research and other needs. And the fact is that the funds provided for by the government's programme, which is 500 thousand kuna for the fourth quarter of 2010, will therefore not be provided for this year's programme and stressed that without strengthening the capacity of a task foreseen by law, it will be very difficult to carry out quality. I would like to point out here that the 2011 budget for the Ombudsman's staff is also set a 94% limit. Therefore, they are not again foreseen for new tasks. Secondly, I would say that we have proposed, and you have been given in the conclusions of the Committee on Human Rights that he, in some way, recommended that this be taken into account in the adoption of the budget. I would just point out that the government's Economic Recovery Programme has points that talk about protecting the most vulnerable groups and social layers. I think that, as well as the government's economic recovery programme, it would be justified to strengthen the office in this regard. Finally, but not equally irrelevant, it is that the progress report, so the 2009 report and the closure criteria of Chapter 23, nor the position of the common European common position, which has been addressed by the Republic of Croatia on progress, also contain the obligation to strengthen the institutional strengthening and capacity of the Ombudsman. We understand the economic situation, but I say we must warn the Parliament, and the Parliament will set priorities. I also remind you of the many years of our proposals for a parliamentary debate on the rationalisation of the entire system so as not to have to provide special funds because we think there are some options for reserves there too. Here, I'm glad I had a chance to expose this. In fact, I expected the last defenders to be invited here, but I think this debate will also be of quality. We will strive and show ourselves about any issues and objections from the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62222	State Secretary at the family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity Stjepan Adanic will further explain the government's opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62223	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the United States, the Attorney General with his associates. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has carefully examined this report, the first such report on the occurrences of discrimination for the past year, which I must stress here, has played an important role in curbing discrimination and raising public awareness about the problem, and has therefore given its opinion on the report in question. Chapter 5 of the report on the area of inequality, on the basis of race, ethnicity and colour of the skin, and of national origin, and in terms of the restoration of returnees' homes, the Government of the Republic of Croatia points out that since the start of the renewal programme in the war of destroyed or damaged housing units, no records or statistics under the nationality of the users of the right or on this basis can be established different rights than those prescribed by the Law on Reconstruction. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has on several occasions extended the deadline for submitting renewal requests to all owners in the war-damaged or destroyed housing units also to resolve the space of another 500 requests that will end by the end of this year, not more than 7,000 requests as set out in this report. In the light of the reports, the Ministry of Regional Development and Forestry and the Water Economy did not respect the legal provision on which it was required to initiate the eviction procedures and to request the reimbursement of the funds invested for those users whose home was renovated when the user did not move into a renovated facility within 30 days, the Government of the Republic of Croatia points out that in such cases the Ministry regularly initiated the procedures for eviction and compensation against the beneficiaries of housing. As regards the control of the use of real estate in which housing users are provided, the Ministry does not exercise control over the use of facilities by the users themselves. The long-term process of rebuilding houses and housing procedures to which the Ombudsman also warns in the report are conditional on a generally difficult economic situation and are carried out in accordance with the means available for that purpose in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. As regards the determination of the right to housing and the procedures for the adoption of administrative acts at the request of applicants, the Government of the Republic of Croatia notes that the order of resolution of the requests of the parties has been established, but the problem is that there are a number of requests from the parties in relation to the number of housing units. In the area where the Ombudsman points out that they are returnees, these are citizens of Serbian nationality to meet among other problems in resolving the status issues of citizenship, residence, mostly by objecting to the length of the procedures, the Government of the Republic of Croatia notes that the conduct of the competent MUP in the procedures of obtaining Croatian citizenship and the approval of residence depends on the complexity of the facts to be determined in each individual case. The ombudsman also states that cases of Serbs, Bosniaks, Albanians and Roma who failed to regulate their status in 1991 have been recorded, and in recent times they have initiated procedures to resolve their status, and that these procedures last beyond legal and reasonable deadlines, which are possible to detect failures in the application of the rules. Since the Ombudsman did not state in which specific cases such failures were observed, the Government of the Republic of Croatia should not be generalised here, and in particular there should be no circumstances which can only be linked to the individual and the fulfilment of the prescribed legal requirements related to the membership of a specific national minority. The report states that cases have been recorded that some people were enrolled 19 years ago in the book of citizens and are now being taken away from their homes where the parties are given an explanation that the registration was made by an error of the official person and that some of those citizens who participated in the Homeland War or have fulfilled a military obligation after working on which the Ministry of Administration has now been forced to conduct long-term proceedings as if it were about breakers who had recently arrived in the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, the Government of the Republic of Croatia notes that if a person is found to have been issued a housekeeper without a valid legal person by an error of an official in the home office, such a person should apply for Croatian citizenship to the competent MUP. According to the report, several returnees of Serbian nationality have been addressed by a public defender by a complaint about the conduct of the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy on the grounds that the issue of residence or reconstruction of the house is still under way, but that it can be assessed that there is an incoordination between the Ministry and the Ministry for which the return process is slowing down. In this regard, the Government of the Republic of Croatia stresses that there are no concrete examples in these cases that cooperation between the competent ministries has been coordinated, with each ministry acting within its jurisdiction according to the material regulations governing a different legal area. In Chapter 5 of the report in the area relating to property inequality or access to justice, the Government of the Republic of Croatia notes that, in cooperation with authorised associations and offices of state administrations in counties, the need to simplify the application form from 7 to 4 pages was recognised at the beginning of the year by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and published in the National Journal No 13/2010. year, so this year. As regards the application of the provisions prescribed by the property criteria, a number of comments on the strictness of those property criteria have been made. In Chapter 5 of the report on the situation of the Roma, the Government of the Republic of Croatia points out that the relevant ministries have been implementing a national programme for Roma since 2003, the priority is to address the request of members of the Roma national minority to acquire Croatian citizenship and regulate their stay. Furthermore, the measure under heading 2 in the field of discrimination and legal assistance of the National Roma Programmes provided for the provision of free legal assistance to Roma in status matters until the establishment of a free legal assistance system. The law on free legal aid entered into force on 7 June 2008 and thus established a system of free legal aid that provides for free legal assistance in status matters. And final. In Chapter 5 of the report on the area of inequality based on the health status of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I find it necessary to point out that, in accordance with the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights, National Journal No 169/2004, and 37/2008. The Committee for the Protection and Promotion of Patients' Rights, the Ministry of Health and Social Care is constantly monitoring the implementation of patients' rights and systematically monitoring the basic county commissions and discussing their reports. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62224	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities? The Committee on Gender Equality? I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives, Ms. Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62225	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed occupier with his associates. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what the Attorney General has already said, this is the first report to be submitted to the Croatian Parliament, and after the entry into force of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. In this report, the attorney general stated that 172 cases related to the fight against discrimination were opened in the Office of the Ombudsman during 2009. The 169 are open to the initiative of persons who believe that they are victims of discrimination and persons who have witnessed discrimination, while only three cases have been initiated as a response to media reports. The maximum number of complaints concerns state administration bodies, even 71 cases, are the following legal entities with 40 etc. In several cases, the Advocate General has given the cases to special lawyers, and they are obliged to act in cases relating to the suspicion of discrimination, so in this report and the special advisers gave their analysis. The report shows that, according to the Ombudsman, the most common discriminatory basis of race, ethnicity, skin color, is the national origin to which a very large number of as many as 54 subjects are concerned in this report. Here, I'll take a quick look at the D.A.'s report for people with disabilities. It seems to me in general that the analysis of all special lawyers may still need to be a little more extensive and detailed, although a relatively small number of cases, or a small number of cases that have been opened by special lawyers in their offices, so here is the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities 21, the Ombudsman for children seems to me only 3, the most of them as a lawyer for gender equality. However, it seems to me that we should have a little more insight into these items, or that the attorneys may need to show in a more detailed way what they were referring to. I'm saying this for the reason that here's the D.A.'s attorney for people with disabilities said that out of the number of cases in which she acted as 8 complainants of the male sex, 11 women. In 4 cases of discrimination was reported by a legal person, it was an association of persons with disabilities and two complaints were anonymous. It also stated that there was direct discrimination in 14 cases, in 8 on indirectness, etc. However, this is particularly true when we talk about the reasonable adjustment regulated by the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, it is difficult to say whether, in particular, when the complaint refers to a reasonable adjustment, whether it was at all a matter of discrimination if it was in some way more detailed, so that we might, of course, be able to discuss it in a more detailed way. What is a very significant piece of information, which the Ombudsman stated was that a large number of complaints were unfounded. So this says that maybe people still don't know what discrimination is, that they're not familiar enough with the law, although here they can praise, and as shown in the report, a large number of held seminars both by the attorney general and the specializing attorneys, and all for the purpose of education of all to say, both judges of both state lawyers, police and citizens themselves. At some of these meetings I also personally participated in when they were organised by the Ombudsman for people with disabilities and I think they were very useful, but it seems to me that, I'm not going to say that it might be of little interest to organise such gatherings, but that people may somehow still not understand what it is really discrimination, so that's how they report everything they think is discrimination. I therefore think that there will be a lot more, a lot of seminars and educational gatherings to really get the impression of what this is really discrimination and that, in the end, the Office of the Attorney General and other Advocates with something that is not really discrimination. It seems to me that this report should be a little bit more complete after all. And I see here in the Report of the Committee on Gender Equality is even suggested that perhaps the Ombudsman's report should be submitted together with the Ombudsman's report that we discuss here every year, so that this report on the occurrences of discrimination should also be submitted with him. It doesn't seem like a good thing to me, because then we'd kind of get lost in all of this, and I don't think we'd get the right picture of the occurrences of discrimination, because as we know, every lawyer in this House is reporting to this House of Commons what then, would she and her report be giving her analysis of the phenomena of discrimination, and by law, each of them has a duty to deliver the Office of the Attorney General. It seems to me, however, that this report on the occurrences of discrimination here should be discussed as a special report. In his conclusion, the Ombudsman stated that here are the first results of court proceedings and the views of the case-law on cases of discrimination against the experience so far, as the Ombudsman said should not expect soon. And it seems to me that this may be a little awkwardly said, because according to the Law on Discussing Discrimination, courts are bound by the law, and that is precisely what the law requires that the court and the other bodies that carry out the procedure are in charge of the procedure, the operations in the procedure to take urgent action. So, these cases are urgent procedures, and I expect that by the second report there will certainly be judicial judgments which the attorney general will be able to put in his records as well as special lawyers, and that we will be able to draw some concrete conclusions from the case-law. I believe that the judicial authorities are aware that these are urgent procedures and that I really have no reason to doubt that they will respect the Law on Discrimination and that we will have very soon the first rulings. I think here, however, as I have already told me in the Croatian Democratic Community club, we expected a slightly more complete report, and I personally think it should be. What the Secretary of State has warned in the government's view seems to me to have given me a good warning, because I think a lot of these remarks that the Ombudsman has stated in his report, which the Secretary of State has warned may not be about discrimination, but about the exercise of some other rights. I believe the next report will be more detailed, more comprehensive. I do not think that the number of pages will be larger and perhaps should not be larger by the number of pages, but that it will be more complete, that then we may have some right or at least as much as possible a relatively real picture of the occurrences of discrimination in the Republic of Croatia. I note that this is the first report and maybe it couldn't have been different for now. But I expect that here are the special defenders of their reports, a little bit of their analysis, so to speak, a little more concretely and deliver it to the attorney general. I believe that this is a first and a good step for all of us to get one real picture of whether the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination is respected in the Republic of Croatia, how well citizens are even aware that they are discrimination or that they themselves are exposed to discrimination. Certainly the number, the total number of cases and the special defender and the occupier are about four hundred. So it's no big deal compared to the population. But I don't think we can finally say that law violations weren't possible in a number of cases. But they didn't apply because people still either don't dare or don't know what discrimination is. However, here I believe that this number will not increase dramatically since we expect that even after more of your seminars and special counsel seminars, this law will still be brought closer to the citizens, that they will have more knowledge of it, and therefore I expect that the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination will also be respected. I must certainly say here that we at the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community think that this is a good law, that these reports are certainly necessary to get the right picture of the situation in the Republic of Croatia. But I myself personally and myself at the Croatian Democratic Community club that this report could still be a little more complete and detailed. So here is the Croatian Democratic Community club that takes note of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62226	Thank you. SDSS representative club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62227	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. Two important reports on the situation in our society can be found in this House. One is the one that we are discussing today from the attorney general, which is about discrimination in our society, and the other is the one that we are going to discuss in a day which, therefore, the State's Attorney's report, which is about incrimination in our society, and that is indeed two central topics that characterize the overall relations in today's society, is one discrimination, and the other is incrimination. It is a shame that in this topic of discrimination we are interested in representatives of the Croatian Parliament from year to year more and more declines. It's a shame we're handling ourselves, too, not a matter of basic constitutional values, which is our duty to protect ourselves here in this House, but actually manage ourselves by how much the media will have an interest in what we would say here, or what we could discuss. Since the topic of incrimination is today a trend and topic in society, then of course most club representatives, including club presidents, will sit here, but when it comes to discrimination then sit somewhere else. That's too bad. So it is not in other parliaments that we would like to look forward to, nor is it in parliament for which we will soon elect our representatives, so in the European Parliament. The subject of discrimination is indeed one of the central topics, especially for those parties who consider themselves left, but today it is no longer so important, today it is looking at the ability of political struggle for both parties on the left and right spectrum of the political scene. I'd like to say next. It's a good thing there's been a dialogue here between the government's representatives and the occupier, but it's not good that this dialogue is just going on here. That's why, Mr. Secretary of State, with all due respect for the things you've brought here, that dialogue should take place elsewhere and at the right time. Not in a way to deny things, not in a way that doesn't see things, but to make themselves clear, by exchanging information. The Attorney General did not receive information from his small finger, but received it from citizens, which is why he actually acts, on the basis of complaints, and based on their experience, and if there is not enough communication between the authorities and citizens, they are addressing the Ombudsman, and it is his to report this Parliament and this public in that sense, and Vladino is not to come to the Parliament and say it is not true. The number of 7,000 requests in the second-degree process for house renovation is correct. We can say that it's 500 numbers more than 500 numbers, but it's true. And I know it's true, which I do daily. And the controversy that is being led here shows the lack of daily necessary communication between the government representatives, those concerned, and especially the occupier, who certainly warns the government's bodies about what he receives as a complaint. It's his basic task. Because if his mission was to report here in the Parliament, what good would that do? Why should we even pay such a mere lawyer? His job is to inform you the moment he gets his complaint. And I believe he's doing it, as it says in this report. But reverse communication, unfortunately, is still not good. Inverted communication is still not attached to the measure of things and constitutional values, and the role of the attorney general. That it is so of course shows the fact of what our interest in the issue of discrimination in society is. In that sense, I would encourage, of course, the satisfaction that you are here, Mr. Secretary of State, on behalf of the Government, but at the same time encourage this communication to begin much earlier, and that this place here will be a place where the attorney general will discuss with us and with the public what has failed to discuss before that. And this looks like a lot of things that haven't been discussed before. As regards the types of discrimination to be observed, discrimination based on group membership, ethnic, sexual, generally minority, is still a fundamental type of discrimination faced by the public defender and his office. And we know that this is still a burden for our society, and we know that discrimination about ethnically, in terms of sexual discrimination is indeed a dominant type of discrimination in this society. And in that sense, it is certain that the good part of it is the result of the war legacy and the war burden, which the legacy is not just a lack of money, because if it were a lack of money we would have solved long ago. Mr. Secretary of State, the money of the Real estate Agency, the state money, would not be put in private pockets, creating fictitious contracts that then leave the owners without their property, and the state without her money, and then the problem remains ours, together. This, of course, also applies to certain issues in the field of reconstruction, in certain periods of government work. Same thing. I understand that today we have less than we had yesterday, and we will probably have less tomorrow than we have today, but it's not just us, all societies are going through this kind of crisis and all societies are going through this kind of economic situation, but the principle of justice must not be forgotten. And poverty, mostly in poverty. It's easy to be fair in wealth, but the problem is in poor circumstances to be just. It is easy under rich circumstances to be such that there is no discrimination, but the conditions of poverty in which we enter imperative is to prevent discrimination, because poverty itself is a generator of discrimination. In that sense, I think it is extremely important that we take seriously, not seriously, as we normally do with a report by the occupier in the last two, three years, but rather take seriously into consideration the findings of the ombudsman, in terms of discrimination on different minority grounds. Another thing I'd like to say, which is also seen in this report by the attorney general. And that is, not by who is being discriminated against but by which area is the most discriminated against. The highest discrimination in the field of work and the highest discrimination in the field of justice. So in one place where the state is shown whether or not it is a state, which is a judiciary. And in another place where society shows itself whether it's a society or not. And in that sense, it seems to me that it's time to finally say here from this place even though it might go a little beyond what is the authority of the attorney general, but it's time to say that those who speak or write anyway how they finally need to think about the productive part of society, not the unproductive. Those who think or write how only that part of society, the productive part of society, has the right to citizens and to make policy and to determine how many taxes there will be and to determine how many cuts will be made for this or that, and that those who are otherwise unproductive should be told them the following: who is responsible for Croatia today having such a number of non-productive ones, and that means those who are unemployed? This means that they are without one of the fundamental constitutional rights, which is the right to work. Who's responsible? You unproductive? Or do they call themselves productive today? Or those who remember today that they are productive and that most others are unproductive. Which means they're a burden to society, that they're a burden to the state, and that the state really shouldn't even worry about them, but possibly caritas. And they will then be photographed from opportunity to opportunity when the caritas organizes a ceremony or an opportunity to collect contributions. That's the kind of society and that kind of state, co-workers and colleagues. I don't think anybody's ever dreamed of it. But these people who send us a message of this kind, they're sending us a message about what kind of dream or nightmare for most of our citizens has turned our society into. And when I hear some of our colleagues and colleagues say when they come to power that the first year employers will be freed from paying contributions I would sooner ask them if they have determined how much the employer even pays the contribution today, yesterday? How many are they gonna pay tomorrow? How many employees actually have no idea that they have a pension tomorrow, or if they have a pension, how much that pension will be in view of the minimum income and earnings they are given. Therefore, the state must certainly do everything possible to be stronger and more just. It is necessary to do all that the elements of injustice that are increasingly developing in our society try to stifle and try to limit. And in this respect, the question of labour rights and the issue of labour rights which represents the fundamental area of discrimination in the Ombudsman's report is something that we parliamentary deputies should pay the most attention to and what we should turn to because otherwise, if we don't do so, then of course we won't notice that our fight against incrimination through the State's Attorney's Office, USKOK and similar institutions of the state will not only be effective but will not do the job that needs to be done. Because fighting only against incrimination, not seeing the galloping forms of discrimination in different areas of our lives, we actually look one eye and look one way. And for that reason, it seems to me that this report of praise is worthy of warning us both on this other side and on this other aspect, which is not only about popular, visible, deserved or undeserved, but about those whose names we will never know, and whose votes we will go to tomorrow and who we are actually here for. Both at the beginning and at the end of our term. For this reason, I would say just one more, Mr. Vice President, the ombudsman has received an extension of constitutional powers. One of the important newspapers of our Constitution in a series of newspapers that we have promoted constitutional norms and the spirit of the Constitution. I think here's a chance for all of us to say that if the Attorney General got an extension of his powers that it must have his reflex on what kind of budget he's going to have for next year. And at the same time, if we've given him confidence by extending power, then it's no longer polite to take his reports here only to the knowledge, but to accept them as it is appropriate for this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62228	Thank you. HNS-HSU Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62229	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney General, the government's representatives. In front of us is the first Report on the occurrences of discrimination which is indeed called the Special Report of the Ombudsman on the basis of the powers conferred on the special law which entered into force on 1 January of last year. In this regard, the structure of the report should also be observed, as it is the fact that the Ombudsman did not begin to deal with discrimination only on 1 January 2009 and the fact is also that the law which regulated the issue is not the first law in the Republic of Croatia to try to sanction different forms of discrimination. It is so hard to say that this is a zero report, so that we start from the beginning because the institution of the occupier has so far made it important to allow the framework, first of all, of the constitutional provision in its powers, and then the provisions of other laws relating to the work of the Ombudsman tried to point almost every year in the Croatian Assembly to different forms of discrimination. I would say that the fight against discrimination is a public monitoring of discrimination as such almost the core of the activities of the Office of the General Prosecutor in various forms. Before the Law on Discrimination was passed, we had thirty different regulations from the Constitution and downgraded through constitutional laws which sought to sanction discrimination as such in different forms but the practice showed that in the Republic of Croatia it was not enough to have law and that our daily life is ignoring the law, not only their violation but in many cases open ignoring. This is not just the case with laws that try to oppose different forms of discrimination, this is the case with many laws. But we, as the legislative body most of all in the Republic, must not even stop worrying about what will happen to the individual law of the moment when we declare it. There is responsibility for us in this regard, and all these reports are necessary to keep track of how the laws we have passed here are being implemented. The position of my fellow Ombudsman, as Pupovac says, is indeed strengthened by the last constitutional changes, and that is something that gives space for action, if you will and indeed that dignity that belongs to the institution of the highest Ombudsman or defender in a modern, democratic, modern state. However, three more things are needed for the successful work of the Ombudsman. The first is the understanding of the Croatian Parliament which created the institution of the occupier. The second active participation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of all authorities of the State Administration is in order to remove certain deficiencies or to combat the occurrences indicated by the Advocate General. And the third is to ensure good working conditions. I'm not sure that in all these three elements we can say that we're recording a very high success. The document delivered to us by the Government bears the name of an opinion. Unfortunately, it has everything but opinions. The government has re-emerged before the Croatian Parliament when it comes to a single report by the occupier without an opinion. That's not good. It is good that since last year, the government has begun to manifest itself extensively about the reports of the regiment and not only of the regiment but also of the other defence attorneys, and this is a major step forward. We also commend that in the discussion of last year's report, especially with some other attorneys. But to be obvious without any attitude is not a good message. It is of course that the Croatian Government, on behalf of all bodies of the state administration, must be manifested on all the findings of the Ombudsman, in order to determine the level of responsibility of the individual authorities of the state administration and to establish an action plan that will remove certain problems, of course directly in communication with the Ombudsman, who has a whole range of ideas, initiatives and proposals to remove these problems quickly and efficiently. We are still witnessing that the government considers the report as an open criticism of its work, not as a well-intentioned list of problems and suggestions on how to remove them. Therefore, what we have received today, or what we have received from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is unfortunately no opinion, because it does not contain any valuable attitude, but it is a whole series of indications. It was not long ago that the government suggested to the Croatian Parliament, and that it was the ruling majority and heard that reports of the occupier were being taken into account. This is below the level of dignity of an effective and responsible government and then of the Croatian Parliament. And that's not good. It should not be expected and it would be unnatural for the government, as executive authority and public defender as the main monitor of respect for human rights and combating discrimination in society, to have a close friendly inseparable relationship. These are two institutions of different levels. And the attorney general directly corresponds to the Croatian Assembly. Therefore, there should be no illusions that they must harmonize their actions and think of everything the same because it is simply impossible, because the nature of the work of the attorney general is precisely such that it points to failures and problems, but the Government must not act as an offended girl, but as a responsible institution that will act on orders. I apologize it's a colloquial expression but I really have no intention of saying it, as anyone is offended. Furthermore, the fact is that there is no unique and fully established definition of discrimination in the world, because it as such is so wide and large that there are many things that can be brought under it. It certainly makes it difficult to operate in this area. But people who are experienced in this business as they are, people who work in the Office of the Public Attorney know from their experience what these issues are directly related to the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, which fall under other laws. In this regard, it is good that the Ombudsman directs all those who address him by calling on him to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, which and where, before which body, should and how to work. But it is not good if an general refuses the public defender's intention to point out that the fight against discrimination is part of the overall human rights threat corpus in Croatia. So in that sense, I did not understand the proposal of the attorney general that the report of this type on the occurrences of discrimination must be an integral part of the report by the attorney general. What we understand is that if the same day is possible, then both on the other and all other reports of the Ombudsmans in Croatia, in order to actually open a thematic debate in the Croatian Parliament on that day so that we can focus on the issues of protection of human rights and the fight against discrimination. We accept this proposal and the Ombudsman himself said that it could be realised through several points of the agenda. Our Croatian society has traditionally wanted to admit it to me or not, and it is a perilous society. In part of our tradition there are still behaviors, forms of behavior that seem normal, in some environments perhaps as desirable, and in fact they are discriminatory. It is therefore not easy to establish new standards if awareness of these issues is not general, although not all segments of public administration, all segments of education, all segments of the public, including the media, are not working on it. However, it is rightly pointed out in this report to a whole series of particularly vulnerable groups that are under pressure from discrimination still most statistically dominant. If the fact that the largest number of cases previously recorded documented discrimination or complaints of discrimination concerns the issue of race, ethnicity, skin color and national origin, we can naturally attribute it to the aftermath and to the burden that the Republic of Croatia bear after the Homeland War, after a large number of households have suffered, been devastated, burned and destroyed. But it should also be said that from war to this day it has been 15 years and that in those 15 years, new standards must be established that will no longer allow war traumas and consequences to be dominant and prevail and to find any form of apology still to be found because of the phenomena that apply then and the cases of discrimination. We can close our eyes in front of the fact that 7000 are still ongoing procedures for rebuilding houses by officially keeping no record of nationality, but we all know that most of these cases are related to members of the national minorities. In the end, I am pleased that the Ombudsman has particularly addressed the issue of the Roma position and that it is said here that it is clear that there is a need to take measures to cultivate and evaluate Roma culture, language and letters, combating prejudice on Roma and their incentives to participate in all areas of social life, education and employment, etc. Today, the World Roma Language Day is recognised by the International Union of Roma. Today 40 people from 20 countries from around the world gathered in the City of Zagreb to discuss the standardisation of Roma language on the round table at the symposium. More than 30 representatives of the Croatian Parliament signed the initiative to join the Croatian Parliament with one declaration to join in the world on 5 November, as mentioned in the fact that in 2008 a cultural phenomenon took place in Zagreb, which the World Union of Roma accepted as a reason for marking the World Day of the Roma language, so that the Croatian Parliament also joins the initiative. Look at the agenda, this initiative is 53rd place, the last item of the agenda of this session we don't even know about until it lasts. We know it will take at least until December, but is this our contribution to what the occupier wrote in his report? Today at 12 o'clock there will be a ceremony where 100 people who hold that Roma language, its standardisation is a very important cultural thing, important among other things so that Roma can better and simpler exercise their rights. Unfortunately, from the Croatian Parliament, no one responded to this call and the Croatian Parliament is in some way involved in marginalising the Roma in Croatia. I don't like it, and I'm not proud of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62230	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62231	But the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Retired Party will support a report by the Ombudsman on the outbreaks of discrimination in 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62232	Thank you. Two corrections. First, Madam Representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62233	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, your claim was incorrect when you said that the government had taken a report from the occupier's office as a criticism of itself. Well, I don't know how you in the government opinion figured it out, but that's certainly not true. Well, in her opinion, the government has stated exactly what it has done so far and what it may not have done to the reasons why it has not done so so far that all people in Croatia can exercise their rights. And the government was focusing precisely on what the attorney general said. She especially pointed out and said what she had done in that part and which is why she did not. So you can't say that she saw it as a criticism of her work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62234	Mr. Representative Nazif Memedi.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62235	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. State Secretary, Attorney General. My colleagues and colleagues. I'll be brief, but clear. First of all, Mr. Beus' first statement, according to him, in fact, that the Attorney General has done nothing until now, and that's not true. Roma organisations all work together with the attorney generals and we deliver everything if we have a problem with discrimination, especially human rights violations. What we can do, what we cannot do, is how much music we can't get. That's what we have to say. Another thing I'm correcting is Mr. Beuss' incorrect claim that today is World International Language Day. That's not true. I'm Rom. At the request of 39 MPs, which I have written to inform all clubs, political parties and we have put on the agenda so that I can explain when this international world language day will be and as a Croatian Parliament cannot bring it to the level of Croatia. We can only give the initiative, support the initiative, and know who makes those decisions. Thank them very much for supporting such an initiative. I'm sorry, just a little bit. However, they first received 6.9 from the Ministry of Science to discuss qualifications today and yesterday, so to standardise Roma language, to put together a group and to standardise language. We as Croatian Roma are a step forward from all other countries, because we have the right now, as a national minority that we are included in the preamble of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, to have the right, if we have a language standardised to have personal documents such as Serbs, Italians, Czechs etc. I beg you, sir... I know you're a member of that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62236	Comrade Memedi, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62237	Thank you for increasing the number of Roma and I ask you so much. And on top of that, I'm in charge of the Roma. I will speak for my Roma and thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62238	Mr. Representative Sima Lucin on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62239	Thank you very much. Okay, well, I'd still watch out for big words and I wouldn't accept the right of any individual, no political group, so if you want NGOs to attribute themselves to the right of exclusive representation of any ethnic minority, gender, sex, etc. etc. Because if we're going into that space, we're going into a very dangerous space, so I would dare say that all those who have exclusiveity in that space are actually responsible for the situation within that space, so the level of human rights regardless of what this is about. Unfortunately, my colleague Beus is not just this item on the agenda. There are four more, five points that directly treat human rights regardless of whether it's ethnos, whether it's birthrights, etc. But I do not believe that the Presidency of the Parliament, in fact, that this criterion was why they put it at the end of the agenda but actually for a simple reason because it is an opposition proposal, and perhaps the Government still has no opinion on it, so it cannot come to debate in the Croatian Parliament for months now. As far as this report is concerned, unlike colleagues from the parliamentary majority of the SDP club will support this report, because I think it is unacceptable for any story, any report, any act that treats fundamental human rights in one way or another to be taken into account. For us as responsible persons, regardless of being in the legislative authority, whether in the majority or in the minority, it is up to us to act on such reports. Therefore, the SDP club will support this report according to its position, the opposition will continue to address the people who have felt trouble on their backs helping with advice, contacts, etc. But when we come to power, then we won't be giving opinions on reports like this, but on reports like this, we're actually going to have to show ourselves what she did on the basis of that report. And I'm really worried about the position of the Croatian government. So, that opinion, I think I don't care what government thinks about this problem. Who cares? You are executive authority and there are certain criticisms regarding you. And instead of writing why it's like that or it's supposed to be written that it's not like that we're actually getting some kind of story that I don't see right now that I don't see any sense of purpose. But I actually think the problem is deeper. The problem is actually deeper because it speaks about the situation, the state of the Croatian administration and the necessity of reforming the state administration. In fact, this opinion of you about this whole thing is merely an expression of what is actually in the structure of the Croatian administration incompetence, insolence, misunderstanding of the problem, and not the time we live in. And while you are acting like this, not on any subject, but on fundamental human rights, Croatia will not actually go forward. Now something about the report itself. So, I think the report is good and it's good that we got it on the benches, that's to discuss it. There have been different grades, and I have to say that what is written in this report if it were so, I would be pleased. Status is where and where better. However, I am concerned about some of the facts that have also been discussed. So, this is that, therefore, the complaints that have been delivered that actually even 71 apply to the authorities of the state administration, and then I can understand that defence position of the state administration instead of having at least that 71 of them cleared up and solved. But the other thing I'm even more concerned about is that in the structure of all applications it's still like this, this high degree of concern for ethnicity or ethnicity. So, when it comes to ethnicity, I have a few things to say. So otherwise, when it comes to the overall problem of combating discrimination, that is also stated in this report, we have a legislative framework. Now one question is, is the legislative framework that we have good and enough to have as little discrimination as possible, as little human rights violations as possible. You see, if you analyze a little bit, or we all analyze different reports together, the application of the different laws that we've discussed here, when human rights are treated, we've never found out about the following, this law doesn't apply, this law applies. For ten years now, ten years for certain laws, we have claimed that some shifts are being made. Now we want to keep saying, let's say, I'm going to take the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. This law has been passing in this House for seven years, but it does not pass in a way that it is said to be applied, but that there are some shifts. So the law is applied in small steps, small shifts, and problems are growing, and then in the area where they're said, what are discriminatory grounds, we get this data. Maybe it's time I didn't know if we thought about it for seven years, to fix the law, the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. I don't know, but it doesn't really please me anymore when we talk about that law, let's just say that there's a move record. Now, watch out the shifts can be recorded all the time, they can be both forward and back, but we de facto have a situation like we do. Here's maybe one topic, a serious topic, a topic to think about. So I'm also going back to, that is, the structure of the report itself. I am very glad that this report is written in a troubled way, few reports that come to this House yesterday, we talked about some, are written in a troubled way, or even there are certain, even certain conclusions. And what I am glad to see, in one place I have seen that it has been observed even that even through the law itself should see whether this law in some parts of it should be clarified, deepened, etc. When it comes to the extent to which the problem of discrimination, as discrimination recognised in Croatian society, or how it is handled, does not act, I think that this one is ultimately less important, because the man who gets hit by the trouble, who feels this trouble on his back, knew about the Law on Discrimination or not, he feels this problem and he will therefore turn to the institutions to help him. But well, that doesn't exclude that need to continue to be educated, I don't know the promotion of this problem. There's also been a lot of talk about how we've expanded this constitutional powers of the attorney, and we've all been there for it, and we've all raised our hand for it. One question to me, will we now be on the budget that will come to the Assembly in a few days to raise the hand and the greater funds? Because I mean, we can give the D.A.'s office, we can put him on assignments, but if we don't give him a tool to fulfill these tasks, or those legal obligations, so we don't give him the money first of all, those tasks won't actually be fulfilled. So here's how it's going to be a test. I mean, in fact, that would be special, I'm going back to the Roma, Mr. Memedium is gone, but I think that problem is present, that this problem is present. So when you look at the structure of these forms of discrimination, from the fact that these people don't have the basic conditions, so they don't have the papers, and I don't even know how they're going to get the basic documents and who doesn't have the help. I liked the same line here that says legal aid is needed, free legal aid to access free legal aid. So this suggests that the law isn't actually adequate. Here we have heard from the secretary of state that this form is now simplified, and I believe that this story, or this problem, will be solved, but it still concerns so very few approved legal aid rights. So to conclude, it's also good and it's commendable that actually 75% of the subjects of everyone treated by this report have been resolved, and I hope that when we adopt in this House a higher budget of the Advocates, that this percentage will be even higher, therefore the SDP club will support this. We also support this counsel's initiative that all reports, all the defenders, are unitedly debated or that we at least get them in one material entirely, because in fact they will then show the best picture and state of things at the level, at this level which is very important, and that is when it comes to the equality of people, when it's actually about some fundamental assumptions of modern and democratic society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62240	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62241	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Lucin, said that there is insolence and misunderstanding by the administration under fundamental human rights, mainly according to the rights of ethnos and national minorities. It is absolutely incorrect, because we heard from a fellow Median about the Roma national minority, how high the standards were reached, and before long we witnessed in some large European countries what was happening to national minorities. And it is also with us to remind a short time ago that the Constitution and Bosniaks and Slovenians are included in the preamble, so in any case certain shifts have been made, however many times we are not satisfied with these minor shifts, but every upgrade is always welcome and we are all invited to this job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62242	At 11 o'clock and 4 minutes, it was time to report a 10-minute debate. HSS representative's club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62243	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Public Attorney with Associates. In front of us is the first report on the occurrences of discrimination, submitted by the Ombudsman after the first year of the application of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. In view of this relatively short period, it is clear that it was influenced by certain restrictions, such as the fact that, for the time being, an unsuspecting system of monitoring cases related to this area has been through the defence system, has been through judicial proceedings, and therefore it is difficult to fully see the phenomenon and spread of discrimination in Croatia, and to prevent and combat this particularly negative social phenomenon as effectively as possible. In addition, because of discrimination, individuals and some social groups may be exposed to direct violence, marginalisation and ultimately segregation, this phenomenon also has a negative impact on the entire society in which, if tolerated, prejudices and kicks support human rights violations, which destroys social cohesion necessary for the smooth functioning of a society. The spread of prejudice that contributes to discrimination between individuals and social groups builds walls among people, sows mistrust and favours the spread of violence directly or indirectly, physically or verbally. How mature we are as a society shows how willing we are to accept and respect others who differ according to their characteristics or attitudes because they too have the same human rights that are not to be violated. Therefore, with the prevention of discrimination, it is also necessary to sanction discriminatory behaviour in order to combat it more effectively and to make it clear to everyone that such behaviour is completely unacceptable and that Croatian society wants to build its future on a healthy basis that implies respect for diversity which in many segments is in fact a positive fact and affluent and contributes to further development of society. However, it must not be forgotten that the Croatian society did not come yesterday but that they formed it and became its constituent and traditional value, such as the family, as we know it, and that it should accordingly seek its way within the European context, not easily reject them under pressure from any other factors, or because someone asked for it. We at the HSS Club are of the opinion that the sad fact that despite the fact that there are international documents such as the General Declaration on Human Rights or the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Council of Europe are individuals or some group are exposed to more or less discriminatory behaviour. The legislative framework has therefore been set up, and the Law on Discussion of Discrimination has been adopted on 1 January 2009, which brings the Croatian legislation in line with the EU acquis. However, as stated in this report, our Law on Discrimination of Discrimination regulates this area on the basis of a number of grounds than the European Directive, and it is a total of 17 basics, and this is in a wide range of areas which can make its application much wider than in European legislation. And although such a law reflects the political will to really combat discrimination, the fact is that such a broad law is laid down, and not sufficiently precise, opens a multitude of dilemmas in the application of what it is when it comes to the adoption of the HSS Club and warned. Such a comprehensive application of the law certainly presents a challenge against European court practice, since it is a rare issue of a very sensitive political issue, and this can also be considered as a reason why the European directives did not cover the area in such a large way as to be different from Croatian legislation. As well as international documents and our law provides for exceptions in which discriminatory behaviour and conduct will not be regarded as such if there is a valid and justified reason based on the law. However, it seems that we have gone beyond European practice, and the report warns that some of the exceptions set out in Article 9 of the law, as recommended by the European Commission, will have to be changed before joining the EU. We believe in the HSS that it would be good to point out the exceptions to this amendment. This is because the report states that following the year-long application of the law, certain shortcomings and shortcomings have been identified, which has led to the creation of amendments and additions to the law, and in order to combat discrimination more effectively. The question arises whether such wide-ranging foundations with the tendency of narrowing exceptions open the space for breaking some other fundamental human rights that protects the General Declaration as well as the Croatian Constitution. The report says that there is no hierarchy between discriminatory grounds and that they are all equally valuable, and we are not sure whether the amendments to the law are on that trail. I'm going to say one example that isn't covered by this report, and I'm sure it should have been. The priest of some of the Christian churches that work in Croatia must have the freedom to preach the Christian doctrine of marriage and family without someone who agrees with this doctrine being accused of discrimination. However, we know that, under the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, a court case has been brought against a believer who taught material from the textbooks and it is known that even the removal of parts of the textbooks for religious science that quotes the words of the Catholic Church's Katekism. My question is, where does it all lead to? Does protecting the rights of some individuals and a group really need to violate the rights of others? Since it is a relatively short period of application, it should not be surprised that the report states that a large part of the activity has been focused on the organisation of the Office itself to carry out new jobs within the existing capacities, the education of consultants, and the initial training of all other law enforcement stakeholders, without neglecting even the treatment of citizens' complaints. In 2009, 172 case files relating to the prevention of discrimination were opened, and were opened at the request of a damaged person, either on the initiative of another legal or natural person or on the basis of a public defender. Of this, 169 cases were opened to the citizens' initiative as a victim, either as persons who witnessed discrimination, and only 3 cases were opened to the public defender's initiative in response to media reports. Citizens have been sued for the treatment of all state bodies, local and regional self-government bodies, legal persons with public authority and the conduct of all legal and natural persons to whom the law applies, and 130 of the 172 cases have been resolved while remaining in the resolution process. Of these 130 cases, in 32 due to the suspicion of discrimination, it was handled in accordance with the powers laid down in the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. As regards the basis on which the citizens were sued for discrimination, the complaint concerned all the areas provided for by law. In complaints of discrimination addressed to the Ombudsman, the most common discriminatory grounds are ethnicity, gender, social status and social origin and disability. The majority of complaints concerned discrimination in the field of labour and employment. However, the analysis has shown that in most cases there is no doubt of discrimination, but it is subjectively dissatisfaction, because, for example, citizens have not progressed with automation or bothered to set specific conditions for establishing a working relationship such as knowledge of English. It concerns, however, that part of the complaints in which there is no doubt of discrimination testifys to the non-trust of citizens according to the work of the competent authorities of the state administration and the judiciary as well as the dissatisfaction with the application of the rules, since a number of complaints are the result of the already completed proceedings and a large number of complaints have been found to be unfounded. It also concerns that, according to the report, available statistics show that the public does not know enough about discrimination or the possibility of seeking protection from discrimination. In view of the fact that the law also provides for the jurisdiction of the Special Advocates in the implementation of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, a co-operation agreement has been drawn up, among other things, which confers jurisdiction on anti-discrimination cases between the Ombudsman and the special Advocates, whose indications concerning their actions under the provisions of the law mentioned are an integral part of this report. However, despite the new powers stemming from the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination as well as the need to secure financial resources for the implementation of the law for the first year of its application, the Ombudsman's Office has not been provided with funds either for 2010 and the exercise of powers and obligations arising from the law covered by the redistribution of existing material and human resources. Based on the information provided on the complaints made and on their content, the report shows that it is impossible to give a precise picture of the phenomenon of discrimination in the Croatian society, as well as that statistics on cases should rather be interpreted as the perception of citizens who have filed complaints, rather than as a review of discrimination in certain areas of a particular Law on the prevention of discrimination. It can therefore be concluded that the experience gained in the first year of the application of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination shows that we are at the beginning of a process that requires surrender, responsible and serious work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62244	Thank you. One correction from Mrs. Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62245	Thank you, Vice President. I'm correcting an incorrect assumption that giving a minority the right to the right of the majority. It's simply incorrect. It's actually not understanding the whole of this problem. Because fighting discrimination on any basis or ensuring the same rights cannot in any way jeopardise the rights of the majority, because that means that most defends their right to discriminate against others, which is absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62246	My colleague Holly, this is a classic example of abuse of correcting an incorrect quote. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS, colleague Marijana Petir delivered her opinion. You dispute her opinion, disagree with her opinion, and then correct the incorrect assumption. Hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62247	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague Holly hurt several articles of the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, as you yourself warned, because I said: "We know that according to the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, a court case has been brought against a believer who taught material from the textbooks and it is known that the removal of parts of the textbooks for religious science that quote children's catechism of the Catholic Church is also required. Protecting the rights of some individuals and groups should not violate the rights of others." The end of the quote. So, you've been sitting on your ears and you're not following what's being said in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62248	HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62249	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Gentlemen of the D.A.'s office and Mr. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. Here's as before the ombudsman with those to say extended powers and duties has always been and remained somehow as someone said here ombudsman but also the conscience of society and the conscience of the state, I would also say shoulder to cry to those who feel discriminated and where there are cases of discrimination. In this report, termology is used that should make me feel discriminated because the Ombudsman said Table 1, 4 and I don't know which one I think has the word tables in Croatian, the chart is a drawing, so we can think about it that way. So discrimination against Croatian language in the Croatian Parliament. In the very report that has been substrated by the parliamentary representatives and by the Ombudsmans, it is clear that it is to support the initiative to unite the report of all the lawyers so that the Croatian Parliament will consider these reports at one time, in one place and that the debate is not as tight as today and that the time of vote in the Croatian Parliament is limited on Fridays from 10 to 12 debates, because this topic is too important for all of our society and the state. It is true that the activities of the Ombudsman in the past period can be divided into two basic groups. One is a reactive or active action based on individual complaints from citizens and the monitoring of discriminatory phenomena and trends in society. The other is so-called. the preventive action or prevention aimed at raising public awareness of the prohibition of discrimination and the promotion of the Advocate General as the central authority responsible for the prevention of discrimination and the raising of standards of protection against discrimination. Mr. Pupovac here was just saying what they say took from my mouth what is visible from these tables as written or table, which is that the largest number of complaints related to discrimination in the field of work and employment. Analysis or parchment found that in most cases there is no doubt of the existence of discrimination but it is said of a subjective feeling of dissatisfaction. For example, citizens felt discriminated against because they were not automated, at the time of meeting the conditions for a particular job in the same progress, and were bothered by setting specific conditions for establishing a working relationship, such as knowledge of English. I think that, although it's written like that, there are much deeper problems in discriminatory employment than what is being called here. It's a public secret, everyone knows that there is nepotism and clientism in employment, and he in this report, and I'm convinced that the attorney general has been told that, I have known cases from around me, from the city I live in, from the county where I live, that they are very clearly defined or undefined or unwritten conditions under which someone is admitted to work, and someone is refused, not accepted. Do you think that there are no phenomena in which this nepotism is related to party belongings or to a material requirement from candidates who approach job competitions in terms of corruption or bribery? But there's no such thing as an order anywhere around here, there are other reasons. Therefore, as the most widespread basis for discrimination in the field of work with particular emphasis on employment according to the results of this research, the age is highlighted, in order: disability, sex, ethnic origin, sexual orientation and ultimately faith. So, what I was just talking about is gone, and we all know that these are everyday occurrences of just some other kind of discrimination that borders both with the use of and repressive apparatus, or a judicial state apparatus. Furthermore, in this report, so I'm talking about, just to conclude, I'm talking about nepotism and clienteleism as reasons for discrimination in employment and in work. This report provides a relatively large space for the rights of national minorities, especially Roma. There is a Roma settlement in Slavonski Brod that still has no status of location and construction permits resolved after 20 or 30 years and for which there is still a problem that is reportedly under way and which is resolved relatively slowly. I hope that you are as a lawyer, a public defender to know the problem, so it is also one of the occurrences in which it is difficult to say that it is discrimination, but in a certain sense it can also help with the recommendations of the Ombudsman. What Mr. Pupovac was saying about the problem of rebuilding and returning to areas of special state concern. You see, and I personally received from persons in the field of special state care, in Slavonia I speak, so in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, Brod-Posavina County, so the municipalities that are out of special state care requests, I was asked to speed up their renewal process. Although fellow Beus-Richembergh here said that he was sure that there was a particular majority problem of a particular national minority or minority, no one here has expressed numbers whether it is so or not. So we can't talk about something that we don't have exact data. I am sure that and wish Croatia had no soft stomach, and this is the land border and the river border of Una continues to Coprena or so on. the dry border with Bosnia and Herzegovina where the landscapes have been relaxed. But weekend returnees do not actually do, do not contribute to the fact that it is not the soft belly of Croatia, and it could be the grace of Croatia to invest far more in employment. Clearly, there are also problems in the reconstruction, but I would not be apostrophe of this as an exclusive problem of a particular national minority as in the field of discrimination of certain nationalities, because I say there are people who appear to me who are quite certain and reliable of the majority people, and they have problems with restoration in areas of special state concern both in Slavonia and in the counties of Vukovar-Srijem and in Brod-Posavia where there are 18 municipalities of special state concern. So I wouldn't be so discriminatory about the problem of minorities and the problem of the majority people because we don't have the exact data of what it is, those 7,000 cases of how much it relates to one and how much of another. Furthermore, someone here said that the right to free aid has not yet come to life, so the consumption of that right has not come to life and that legal aid is needed in order to exercise the right to free legal aid, as I understand Mr. Lucin. In particular, this material highlights the conditionality of providing free legal assistance to a 35 square-square living area plus 10 square meters for other family members. It is clear that living space for free legal aid does not actually play any role, because if legal aid is not free it is paid, and you cannot sell that space to initiate any legal process, lawsuit proceedings etc. Therefore, it is a little bit indisputable or in order for someone to say illogically that we voted in ours, here in our Parliament, the Croatian Parliament, that this is also related to certain ownership of real estate, i.e. immovable property. Given that this report is further, for this report and that the data from this report is actually an indication that it is our shoulder to cry on those who are discriminated against or where they are, and 25% have been found to be cases of discrimination that they were not, no reports have been justified. Here is a report that really speaks in detail about all aspects of Croatian society, Croatian life and the places where discrimination occurs, in which discrimination arises, as it has been resolved and in how it intervened, responded by the Ombudsman, there is really no reason why the HDSB club will not accept the Report of the Ombudsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62250	Thank you. An individual debate. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62251	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of my debate, I would like to say that I will support this report. Although at first sight from the Report it may be the impression that the Republic of Croatia is not a country in which there are many cases of discrimination. I cannot agree with this because I believe that the Republic of Croatia is a state in which there is a very, very much discrimination and a lot of open discrimination and a lot of hidden discrimination. Croatia is a country where discrimination is a completely normal thing throughout a number of different features. Croatia today is a country where it is not easy to live even if you are white, male, Croat, Catholic, employed, highly trained, married, middle-aged, healthy or disabled and... sexual orientations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The situation is much, much more difficult for all non-white groups, who are not male, who are not Croatian nationalities, who are not Catholic religions, who are not employed, who are not highly trained, who are not married, who are not middle-aged or young, who are not healthy, who are disabled and who are different sexual orientations. Unfortunately, the situation is getting worse with the duration of this economic crisis. What worries me most about this report is that people in Croatia do not know what discrimination is, and that means they do not know when they are discriminated against, but that also means that they do not know when they are discriminated. It is precisely in this area that the role not only of the Office of the Attorney General and other Advocates or Advocates but also of the Assembly, Government and other bodies of the State is crucial. Unfortunately, the whole of the country is not doing enough in this regard, and by ignoring the so-called discrimination cases. The government’s views on which other colleagues had previously spoken with their constant failure, not to mention that they were not at all working on education and public awareness of discrimination and non-acceptability of discrimination, which in fact encourages discrimination. In that sense, I would like to commend the recent statement by Minister Karamark, who finally condemned the attack of two men on two other male persons of different sexual orientations and called them, called the act, that is, the act of what it really is, and that is a hate crime. I say finally, because so far, the government and the said minister have been quite scandalous about the attack and discrimination of persons of different sexual orientations. In that sense, I will remind you of the case of gay arrivals which this year, as well as the previous ones, marked the permission of the Ministry of Interior to maintain so-called. An anti-gay comes together and it was nothing but a fascist, racist, and by all other features discriminatory in fact an event. I will, in particular, refer to both the report on gender identity discrimination, and the report says that there has been no case of discrimination reported in relation to gender identity and sexual orientation. There was only one case, as from this, the Report can give the impression that Croatia has no problem with these forms of discrimination at all, and of course it is not. I hang out with a lot of people who are second-born or sexual, or represent a gender or sexual minority, and there are really a whole series of problems, and most of the problem is that discrimination here often turns into open physical violence. And the state is approaching this problem I'd say stuck nose like it's disgusted to treat these cases, which is discrimination in itself. Here I would like to remind you of a case which is very indicative, which is that the SDP Club has referred two laws to the parliamentary procedure concerning the issues of birth or birth minorities or transsexual persons. It is the Law on the Personal Name and the Law on State Mothers, moving from session to session to end of the agenda, and there is no indication that it will be debated here at all in plenary, showing in itself that the Government discriminates against these persons whose adoption of amendments to these two laws is extremely important so that they can live normally in the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, I would also remind the government of the precisely scandalous response to my parliamentary question regarding the absence of a Transsexual Care Centre where the Government has responded in such a way that there are no such questions, there is no such problems in the Republic of Croatia, and then there is no need to pay any attention to it at all. As a result, I believe that it is not just a matter of reactive action, of applying or acting on certain media cases, but is very, very important in the matter of discrimination proactively, and what does that mean? This means that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should consider carrying out a public media campaign on what discrimination is, and in what way discrimination is actually conducted, because, as it is ultimately pointed out in this report, there is a very large misunderstanding of this problem, what is discrimination at all, and until people know in what way they are discriminating others, and how they themselves are discriminated against, I think there will be no positive steps in this area. And here I would like to praise one campaign, at least it seemed to me like a campaign, it was a whole series of publications, or texts that were published in the Morning List, where problems were actually being handled, i.e. the life stories of people who were different by any basis, so I think it was a lot of work done by people who were other races, other religions, other gender identities, or sexual minorities, gay populations and the like, and in this way, by actually bringing up these life stories, I think it was a lot of work on that and I think that this is not just the task of individual media, but also the Government of the Republic of Croatia to carry out a public campaign on this issue and in any case strengthens the Office of the Ombudsman with sufficient finances to carry out this part of the work by means of the Law on the fight of discrimination.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62252	Thank you. Correction, Ms. Representative, Ms. Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62253	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct a few, but here's just one, incorrect quote from a series of colleagues, Holly. We are just returning from one, a conference of women in politics and, and your incorrect allegation is that this government, that in Croatia is difficult to live, that discrimination is in every respect, but today in the morning, I have listened to the examination of an American one-state agency that is housed according to social order, so social order includes this part of discrimination and Croatia is 51st place, and is classified in the order of highly socially-organised countries, and among other things, the government is good at its programmes, and action plans related to discrimination, I think it does a lot of things, but most of all we have to do ourselves, and so perhaps your debate is good.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62254	Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62255	My colleagues and colleagues, allow me to say a few sentences.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62256	Wait a minute, one moment. It seems to me that some of the signals are coming from that box. Comrade Lesar, you had a replica? Okay. I'll take your word for it, because you're always saying the right thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62257	Replica, it's not a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62259	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, but... My colleague Holly, you mentioned in your speech the attitude of the government always and when it comes to the administration's practical lack of attention, and out of the government's obvious appearance today, I'm surprised that this part of the public defender's report, which refers to the labour market, has not caused any attention... More than 32% of complaints related to labour market inequality, 10%, only 10% of Croatian companies have an act of regulated conversation, a job interview, 60% of companies ask questions related to belongings, and private life. [[You don't understand.]] In one third of the companies, age is prescribed as a condition in the tender for employment. If no one responsible in the government is interested, not interested, and it is announced that the new Labour Act is being passed by the end of this calendar year, I am taking the opportunity to listen to someone in the government, because the secretary of state has gone out, reminding me that in a state firm in a state firm, testing those who can stay at work and reporting to a competition among other things, they are asking what food is being fed by a beak, that is, in which the family of animals is to be strangely beaked, which feeds koala, and what is called the most trophy coach of the American men's basketball team. I would ask perhaps the members of the government to go to that entrance exam to see which of them could be employed in that state-owned company, based on these three issues, so much about the government's responsibility when it gets this report ahead of itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62260	Do you know the answer to the question of a strange beak?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62261	I know, I had to learn.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62262	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62263	Dear colleague Lesar, you're absolutely right. In the end, it is unusual that the report, namely the Government of Croatia's opinion on this report, is generally perceived as being an attack on the government and that the government must actually fight and defend against this opinion, which is, against this report, quite absurd. And finally, we see that the government is obviously trying to convince us that we are living very, very well, and there are no problems in the Republic of Croatia, so here is the correction of the incorrect quote from my colleague, Sumrak, I am also experiencing in this sense as an attempt to defend the government to lead this country very well and that there is indeed no example of discrimination in Croatia, which is absolutely incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62264	Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62265	Thank you very much. Here if the replicas are finished, let me say a few words about one aspect of discrimination in Croatia which is less mentioned in the reports of this type, or is almost not being elaborated at all, and not because the Ombudsman would be incompetent or underprivileged, but because the problem is not actually recognized as a very serious form of discrimination on the one hand, and on the other. Not to be mysterious, what it's all about. It is discrimination based on political belief or rather party membership. This form of discrimination is almost accepted as normal and self - understanding and is more dangerous and serious and it would be good to start and talk more publicly about it. In fact, living 40 years in a one-party system, people have become accustomed to part of the privilege, especially when it comes to employment, can be obtained if it belongs to the ruling party at that time, especially when it comes to leadership positions in the then state, in the present system. Things have changed in a few by introducing a multi-party system, but the mental matrix and form by which membership in the political party brings privileges has remained and has been present and co-existing toughly for 20 years. A large part of our political parties actually operate on one clientelistic principle and party nepotism is an integral part of, I would say, the functioning of political parties. That it's a dangerous discrimination and a serious social problem that we're talking about because it seems to fit everyone. I'll give you an example. In the city of Sisak, in the City Administration, I am talking about an example that I am familiar with, about 1,000 people employed in the City Administration and city companies. In the SDP membership that has never been there, there are about 240 members. Only one member of that party is employed in one institution owned by the city. We could certainly assume that these 1,000 people who are members of HDZ and HSP are employed there because they are smarter, they are more capable, they were more similar to those jobs, but we can hardly believe that it is precisely so that in this unfortunate SDP all those who are incompetent, who are not aware of anything and who should not be given the opportunity to work in a city enterprise, a city institution or God in the City Administration are gathered. Last night, I had a woman, a single mother from an island who said she couldn't possibly get a job because she refused to join the HDZ that they had made her a condition to get to work. ... My colleagues, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, don't speak in advance because I can give you examples to warn about seriousness, I can give you examples of a different type. In the few times that the SDP was in power, you can be sure that there were pressures from my party's ranks to, say, eliminate, move from an important job a man who belonged to a marginal, extreme, right political party and, say, out there in the town of Split. So, I don't want to say that it's an exclusive right to have an exclusive on it with HDZ. For 20 years, the authorities have brought and produced, I say that this is a deeper problem, led to people dealing with it. Taking over several months in the same town of Sisak, the mayoral office of many said they packed bags to expect and that it is normal to get fired. When I told them that their political belonging or party membership was in no way qualified for any job or disqualification, many looked at it strangely. So we have a situation in Croatia in which unless you are formal members of individual parties, especially in our small places throughout Croatia, you cannot provide 2 of these fundamental rights, and it is about employment and it is about access to public goods and services. It's a problem that doesn't apply because it's hard and it can prove it. You know, nobody's gonna say I'm not gonna take you because you're not a member of HDZ or HSP in Sisak City, I'm speaking specifically. But no one's going to tell you, but it's known to be a key argument or a key ticket to get a job. At a time of catastrophic unemployment, a party card, party nepotism becomes a ticket that creates not only rights belonging to all citizens but also significant privileges. I wish you'd keep that in mind when you talk. You know that, that mass and that non-recognition of the problem seems to me to be a greater danger and coping with it than just that phenomenon itself. Because we're not even dealing with that phenomenon. I know that there has always been no ideal society in which there is general justice and general justice, but the question is whether we are dealing with it or not. And as in that Krležina "not among flowers or justice" when you complain... so he says to him, "You're an idiot, that's the will of God, so there's a point. ... This is how you think about inequality and inequality in society, but you should keep in mind that there is logic... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] which says that it can be given for the starch to burn the mac and that it can produce social conflicts, great dissatisfaction and that it can seriously disrupt social balance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And finally, let me say, this report warns of a problem that I've already talked about on one occasion. There are dozens of villages in Banovina where water and electricity or at least roads and electricity were found 20 years ago, if not water, in which there is no water. There's no reason to believe that 15 years after the Storm that we can accept the argument that it's financial problems. The only problem is who lives there. These several elderly Serbian families have the right and we have the right to seek in Croatia elementary municipal equipment and civilizational level. It is a question that we must no longer allow ourselves in Croatia to ever find as a problem in the Report of the Ombudsman of any kind. And please, another aspect, it's about hiring disabled people. By abolishing the Fund for Development and Employment, the Fund for the Employment of Persons with Disabilities at the beginning has discriminated against people who are not in an equal position for the competition. And that is why it is the government's responsibility to return all those mechanisms and to find new ones that will allow for a positive one, because it is said here that it is not discrimination, if it wants positive discrimination or the privilege of persons with disabilities to be equal in the competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62266	Thank you. Two corrections, two replicas. First Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62267	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, counterpart Vidovic said this, all employees of local self-government in the town of Sisak and companies and city-owned institutions are from HDZ and SDP. That's incorrect. I remind you, and you've pointed out, too. In just six months you've been mayoral yet you've changed some people, you're forgetting a little bit and it's right in the heads-up facilities. And the second correction, it's incorrect that there are financial problems regarding water in Banovina. It would be good to visit these people. I visited them. And some things also made some moves, so some people have been given water lately, and yet it's just technical very big technical problems when it comes to local plumbing.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62268	Mr. Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62269	Well, an incorrect colleague, Vidovic, when you were talking about hiring during HDZ. I think you and your party are the last to talk about it. In 2000, you think the public forgot what you did when you came back to power after 15 years. So, do you remember the statement from your fellow ministers who said they were expecting resignations before they sat down in the ministers' chairs on the table. So how many officers, how many civil servants, how many supervisors and assistants have been replaced in just a month. That's what you've been working on, and you know how to do it. And now you're threatening the Croatian public what will happen when you come to power.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62270	Replica, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62271	You are talking about Croatia's biggest problem, you are talking about political discrimination. It has grown to this extent that it has become such a problem that we simply have a captive state.../ Speaker off./... So we have one paradox. Those most communicative are their favorite communist methods. And then, of course, the government to say that we took note of it, but probably also the orientation of this report by the occupier to see how brave the public defender has to talk about all the cases that the government is harassing, because the government doesn't like problems. Therefore, precisely because of such a situation where it is impossible then to achieve economic rights of elemental justice for the worker to get his salary, we have a basic problem. Those who are invited to protect such as the attorney general and who enjoys the great trust of the citizens, even he needs protection when he is openly talking about the problems he is facing. There are not only the public defenders, this is widely heard in the EU that the ruling coalition does not support not accept the report. That's what you got read about, but the government didn't react. So there are also persons who would like and who are called to protect human rights. There are judges who are discriminated against because of this, who object to disability because they don't like decisions. So what do we even talk about when we have a society where those who have to provide protection need protection themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62272	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62273	I agree with colleagues with your findings as much as possible, and here is this little replica class or corrections that don't respect that different situations were possible. Dispute me, come to me, that I made cleanups, and I kept, for example, an assistant minister who was high on the HDZ list for the whole term, because she was professional and she was high-quality and whose party commitment was none of my business. This says that it was possible and that HDZ could do it and that nothing terrible would happen. Just like this case that my colleague Roxandić was talking about. It's not about water, it's about being recognized that after 15 years someone doesn't have electricity in Croatia. It's a fundamental civilizational good. And if we could understand it well in 1996, seventh, eighth when the home of the Croat returnees was restored, etc. No one can say that after 15 years in a village or villages around the Court, the Kostanica can't have electricity. We can fool ourselves, but it's certainly about the people who live there. So, I can also tell my colleague, Roksandić, that one change of director, director, etc. people who have to be directly responsible for the functioning of the government, and one is the employment of cleaners by those who measure in the plumbing and sewerage or in the Fima Media who negotiate jobs. It's different things.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62274	Ms. Representative Mariana Petir, replica. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa,
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62275	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. When you spoke about the state of water supply in the Banovina area, colleague Vidovic, you may have made some hasty conclusions. I can personally testify that here this year about a month ago for the third time the director of Croatian Waters along with me as a member of the National Water Council was in Petrinja, visited Banovina. With all the funds agreed to strengthen the water supply of this war system, another 6 million kuna has been agreed for water pipelines in Novi Selište, Moscenica, Gora Graberje, Križ Hrastovački, Zepeliš for collectors, etc. for the Croatian Kostanica area a complete disposal system worth more than 10 million kuna. You know there's a problem in Banovina with local water lines that people have built out of their self-delivery that lets go all the way, for which there aren't all the permits, and that's where they have to start all over again. But it is incorrect to conclude that no one brought water just because the Serb population or any minority lives there, because I personally worked as a mayor with the UNDP, with the Croatian waters to rebuild these pipelines. You can't rebuild some plumbing because they don't have licenses and they don't exist in the cataster, they're just not on the list. I think it's also dangerous to say something more difficult because it might get the impression that simply some people just because they belong to another nationality or another political option is classified in a group of lower order. That's not true. Because I don't want to believe that 46 Croatian defenders in the Lower Kukuruzari don't have their own home, have not achieved their gifts on which they are only entitled because they are Croatian defenders. These people have defended this Croatia, assured us and our children that they will have an independent state in which there will be no second-class people, they have received material for building houses but to this day these houses are not theirs, and we know that the safe home is actually a prerequisite for starting a family to have a normal life. And we're trying to help them in our talks with the Resort Ministry. So, I would just like to underline that we must not look at who is who the nationality belongs to, but that we should help every man and try to do so and that it is our job as parliamentary representatives and that I personally do so both in Sisak-Moslavina County and in all of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62276	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62277	I, of course, agree with the principles you said here. Yeah, we can't look at who's national and don't get it wrong, I'm talking about people I think are being discriminated against, even if it's one man. So I don't deny the efforts that have been made, all this data you've been saying stands, they're all true. But let's say, in Sisak, there is water in all the towns of Sisak, except in two villages. It bothered me that in the two villages otherwise populated by the Serb population, which the Serbian National Council had to give 400,000 kuna to restore the water supply. It was a local, I'm talking about an old village. So why should the Serbian national, let him give for books, let him give for cultural art programs, these citizens there have the right to get water... Now it's approved, but I'm telling you that it's been participated either from the funds that are, it's unnecessary in any way to question the nationality of the people who live there. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And I warned about the electricity, not the water so much. The water supply problem is of another kind, it's about something that requires minimal power, or a return of electricity, and there's still a lot of settlements in Banovina where there's no electricity. It's a fact and it's a fact that we all have to change together, and we MPs if you want out of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62278	Thank you. Now we're going to interrupt the debate on this agenda point. The debate will continue on Wednesday 10th, and the session will continue, continues for 10th, 11th and 12th November, so on Wednesday we will continue the debate on this agenda point. First in line is Ms. Karolina Leakovic. There are eight other MPs. After this debate, we will move to the agenda item bearing the title or title of the 2009 report on the work of state lawyers.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62279	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We're going back to work. And we interrupted the debate on the agenda item of the 2009 Report of Discrimination Report, which was submitted by the Ombudsman. And now we continue the debate, the individual debate. It's Madam Representative Karolina Leakovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62280	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to point out briefly in the following debate some aspects of human rights violations that you are talking about in your report on discrimination for the past year, because I believe that your warning should not go unnoticed and I want to say that I believe that, as it is evident that the rights of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia are in many ways threatened, I want to talk today, in fact, that there is no more free education in Croatia, at least the high one, that there is also commercialisation and commercialisation of health and health protection in Croatia, and that many elements of the social state are actually being destroyed, and under the ego and in favour of the private interests of a few who have possessed public, or common goods. Such a neoliberal concept of course is not our specialty, it generated... Imequities in societies around the world, but I hope, therefore, that in the search for new answers to these inequalities, we will come to the fact that the huge difference between the minority of rich and most poor dominoes. [[You don't understand.]] In Croatia, as I have already said, there is still and systematically many things that are public, if you want to privatise the state and try to subdue the interests of some clicks and lobbies, and it is actually trying to privatise itself to ensure the efficiency and quality of services, and in fact it is that individuals make huge profits, providing services that should be provided by the state, such as I have already told education available to all without differences or quality and accessible health or guaranteed pensions, and it is also said in this report that the level of social injustice is unbearably high in Croatian society, that there is no social solidarity and that the separation is mostly and above all social separation. In addition, Croatia is developing unequally, the quality of public services unfortunately declines rapidly, and for example, everyone who has money without thought is enrolling their children in private high schools, to private colleges, rarely abroad, is treated exclusively in private offices, and not thinking how and what choice they are actually leading to further collapse of the foundations of the social state. In such a situation, it is clear that citizens feel insecure, that they do not trust the institutions of the executive, legislative, lawless and judicial authorities, and these are the problems that we often talk about here, and we should do it more often. As you warn in your report, citizens are not sufficiently informed about their rights, so many do not even know that they can seek protection if they are threatened. However, those who demand protection, in most cases, are people who have been injured by labour rights, or those who complain about inequality in the world of work, and this is a crucial issue for me because the possibility of employment and work is also a question of dignity and self-esteem and involvement in society and the feeling that you are a valuable member or a valuable member of society and that it can contribute to its development. Unfortunately, more than 300 thousand unemployed in Croatia, and this figure is constantly growing, are highly discriminated against, young highly educated women are discriminated against, and women and men who are older, who have lost their jobs and who can't really hope in such a short time that they will have a job again. And that's exactly the aspect you're also talking about in your report and saying that actually the workers don't know what their rights are, and I would also add that they might be afraid to use their rights, that especially in the private sector, the possibility of union association is extremely small, and that this is a serious problem, that the workers who work in the private sector are exposed to all forms of discrimination, of course a little bit of knowledge and talk about it, because people are reluctant to talk about it, there are also no speeches in that sense, because the pressure in the workplace is so great that the employer is actually threatening that if they raise their voice, it will make it impossible for them to extend their work contracts and thus lose their jobs. These contracts, of course, are mostly made for a certain time. The report also warns against discrimination in accessing goods and services, and this is one of three areas where the largest number of complaints are, and these complaints reflect the opinion that in Croatia things can only be resolved through family ties or through the use of political influence. I must also express my dissatisfaction with the fact that the Ombudsman's office is complaining about the lack of money, both for 2009 and 2010, and in this regard I would like to call for more resources to be allocated to the work of the office, especially for the implementation of preventive, informative and educational programmes and campaigns that you seem very good to me in spite of these objective circumstances and so far have been implemented. I also want to point out a few things that can be read in this regard from the progress report on Croatia, which was published yesterday, so the European Commission's report on Croatia's progress, which also says that here, however, some steps have been taken to raise awareness about the existence of anti-discrimination legislation, but it is stressed that neither state or public bodies, and in particular citizens actually know enough about these provisions and that the number of lawsuits submitted is indeed negligible. It is also said that the application of provisions relating to sanctioning hate crimes is at an early stage. The Commission's report also states that there is a lack of information on rights and obligations in the field of social protection, health and pension systems, and that there is a warning of fermented legislative solutions, and I would interpret that as well as their non-compliance. The report also states that the state guarantees the right to free legal aid, but the procedure for coming to this aid is complicated and generally poor. Here I think that these warnings coming from the European Commission should also be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62281	Thank you very much. We have two corrections, one replica. First correction by Mrs. Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62282	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's a colleague who says incorrectly commercialized healthcare and health care. On the contrary, colleagues have actually seen progress in promoting and achieving patient rights in this area, and progress has been seen mainly in monitoring the purchase of equipment and removing architectural barriers to people in health institutions, according to people with disabilities for their easier access. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62283	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62284	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's an esteemed colleague in her debate, she said on several occasions, and she gets the impression that health care is only available to rich people at this point in the Republic. Dear colleagues at this time have access to health care for Croatian citizens regardless of wealth, regardless of the money needed, the biggest one is safe in Europe, and among the best in the world and every citizen can use the service and best clinics in the Republic of Croatia and the availability of healthcare is indeed at the highest level at this moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62285	Thank you. We have one replica, Mrs. Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62286	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues Leaković fully agrees with your finding that workers working with private employers do not have any rights, or above all, are employed means for a certain time, and I will tell you a concrete example from my county, i.e. the town of Virovitica where workers who tried to organize themselves in the KTC trade chain owned by our domestic entrepreneur, Mr Katavic, these workers. those employees who were going to organize a union to which they were legally entitled, so law-law, were fired. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62287	Thank you. Answer, Madam Representative Karolina Leakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62288	Well, of course you should know that the contract for a certain time is actually supposed to be an exception, not a rule under the Labour Act. And also that the freedom of union association is something that is not exclusively the right of workers in the state and public sector, but should actually be normal in the private sector, but, of course, education and need to be informed and asked by Croatian employers, HUP, to protect workers' rights more effectively than it is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62289	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. It is up to Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62290	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. Today, the Ombudsman submits here according to his legal obligation a report on the occurrences of discrimination for 2009. It is proposed that the ruling Ombudsman's report be noted. So, contrary to customs and otherwise as is done when those who are mandatory here before us yearly subsidize the report. It's on the trail of what happened last year. Even from Europe, they reacted and asked what is happening to the status of the attorney general? Does the Ombudsman not have the approval, or support of the ruling when his report is only taken into account? But with this, the government has sent one message about how it applies, so to all those irregularities that have been referred to by the attorney general. And instead of being grateful to receive that report, to respond to all those phenomena that the occupier pointed out she's sending a message, we're just getting so much information, we're just going to endure it, and we're going to push it on our own. But fortunately, we have such a man, a mere lawyer, who is a man of conscience. Which precisely your position, your position and your action to represent those who have been injured in their right, who have been humiliated and rejected by the state authorities of any level, therefore which man does not buy his public recognition and approval by the ruling ones by rejecting and disowning the truth. But he's just still persistent in taking hold of a man, for his rights, for his interests by denying in doing so all praises and my personal interest. This is the attitude of rulings that they have shown as they act. What kind of interest they have, or how much they care about the truth. As much as they worship lies, half-truths and escape from the truth. And then when the facts and the truth can't possibly, not one... ignore, or deny, then ignore it. Then who discriminates in Croatia in different ways? Who are these people? Who are these levers of authority and individuals? Certainly they, above all, not only came by the mercy of the authorities to those positions but above all by a person with a lot of prejudice and little knowledge. It is those who must apply highly sophisticated laws that we have adopted obviously reluctantly when we do not want them under the pressure of the EU to be a truly polite country with high standards of respect for every human being. And I'm going to say something here that a lot of people are complaining about, and almost all the parties are going to condemn such a statement, and I accept it. It comes from high church circles, that they are part of the communist method. And it's true, and by the ruling most condemnation of communism, but they worship communist methods. So what are these methods? These are exactly the methods when a man is denied and it should be stopped. Of course, such are one division of those who are humiliated, who cannot exercise their rights, who are afraid to exercise their rights, unfortunately in the vast majority. And these divisions to those who enjoy all rights and beyond the law, not only rights, but who don't need laws, which grab and provide rights that don't belong to them unlike those that can't exercise elemental rights. That division sucks, but there's something good about it. She is not eternal and I hope that she will stop in Croatia very soon. So how to deal with these great truths and how to change this Croatian sad truth? Of all divisions, that is, of all discriminations, the colleagues in last week's debate pointed to that. We also have discrimination on the one that has not yet been recorded in the theory, and it is working in Croatia, but it is closely related to political discrimination. It is not even visible because people know that it is in vain to point out when it is the most used by those who should be far away from it, or give up such an act in their daily activities. Of course, by changing authorities, certain positions are changing. It's something that's unorthodox about every democratic structure. And it's something natural. We even have the Law on the handover of power. You know exactly what places are changing, which aren't. But what happens in Croatia. That jobs, that normal life is therefore a threat to man unless it belongs to a certain position. I know they're not the same situation everywhere, but they're really alarming somewhere. To this end, here is a recent recent recent recent recent recent case in the city of Zadar that even political contemporaries are called because their relatives belong to another political option. So is that more of a bottom? But how do you do it? Subtle. Never do it from the top or from the top, but they let their own dogs bark in the village and in the towns. And then when they're warned about it, they're pushed because a man dared to talk publicly about it. No, we condemn it. It's some sort of individual case. But there are so many individual cases that they are a structural nature, not certain individual outbursts that appear everywhere and at all times. So these are these sick growths on the political being of Croatia that have led to a crisis of trust. The rulers must be responsible for why people are apathetic, not looking forward to it. That they don't have the strength to simply claim their rights. And how then and what can we talk about when we're only at this pre-political so-called stage, how we can talk about economic rights. But they're alarming. As we've heard from the oral explanation, and here we have it in writing, in a written report. Therefore, since it was only the law that came into force, that only people had begun to react, that is to say, to insist on the application of this law, that this is the first data that is certainly not comprehensive, nor can it be comprehensive. But they're already alarming in this little table, in the second table where they just bounce or forgive page seven where they're talking about corporate injuries. While we're recording only a dozen here and corporations right next to the government's bodies, I've already mentioned enormous discrimination. That means they've accumulated power that doesn't belong to them and that they don't follow the law, that they don't respect the law. We in Croatia, unfortunately, have a good part of gangster capitalism. Comes here unverified capital. He has no obstacle, while fair capital to him is every possible obstacle on the road and barriers. And so, as they came, they treat workers, because labour rights are a painful topic in Croatia, but also to the state, to this state fissus, but certainly benevolent to individuals as they do and what they do. After all, it's already a superfluous and deplaced topic. These topics take place today in front of Croatian courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62291	Thank you. We have a replica first, then two corrections. First Mr. Representative Vedran Rosic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62292	Well, colleague Anticevic, I think SDP is the last party to talk about political discrimination. Here's a report and a response from the occupier's attorney, you can see the case in Trogir, where when you came to power a year and a half ago politically based on the worst, you allowed yourself the worst political discrimination where you fired 14 employees in the city administration and those officers who worked some 20, some 25 years ago. Normally, they couldn't find any protection with you, and in his response to the five pages, the attorney general showed all the illegalities of your work. As you are in the city of Trogir in power with a coalition with the HNS, is this a method, is this how you show how you would possibly behave at the state level if you came to power, so that after political discrimination, officials would be fired at local or state level.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62293	Thank you. The answer, ma'am? No, I don't. We are going to correct the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62294	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Antičević Marinović said more incorrect allegations, and I'll list some. He says, "The rulers worship a lie, they enforce laws with a lot of prejudice, and with little knowledge, and they work with communist methods." That is, they are absolutely incorrect allegations that laws are not respected. Absolutely, and you dear colleagues have struck the foundations of these laws, the law of righteousness, in such a way as to reduce women's rights, birth rights, rights to Croatian wartime disabled people, etc. But let's let it go. I find it very interesting how you want to get close to the church, mention the church, etc. I want to say that you are not invited to do so, and I want to say that you should live in harmony and act in harmony with the gospel, so a beautiful saying says, "Faith without works like a bowl without food!" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62295	We have another correction by Mrs. Ljubica Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62296	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague, like her colleague said, said a series of incorrect allegations, and I'll fix one. One of them is, and she mentioned several times that the ruling ones are irresponsible. Well, fellow Members of Antičević just as the Government wanted to show with its own obvious what he was doing, and regarding the cases mentioned by the Ombudsman in his report, and we ourselves are witnesses here, and so are you colleagues that we are all back and forth here from the application of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination did so that there would be no discrimination or that there would be any less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62297	Thank you. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62298	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Three big reasons to worry about this report by the Ombudsman on the occurrences of discrimination in the Republic of Croatia. The first serious reason for concern is the content of the report itself, which warns that discrimination in Croatia has been spread and is all-consuming. Another serious reason for concern is the government's attitude towards such an opinion and the finding of a public defender. You know when there's discrimination in a society, then it's a problem of course the government that runs that society, but it's also a whole society. No society can be considered healthy or just if it tolerates discrimination within itself, and if it does not react sharply and effectively to these phenomena of discrimination. The government has written a broad opinion on this finding by the attorney general, and in one place even says that the claims made by the attorney general are completely unfounded. A question arises in this House to whom will the MPs trust, their Ombudsman or the Government, who claims that the findings and opinions of the Ombudsman are unfounded? The third big problem or great reason for concern is the debate that took place last week when this point was put on the agenda, which is the opinions of some MPs, especially those who come from minority lines, that they are precisely them and only those in charge of curbing the phenomenon of discrimination. Thus, Memedi reacted sharply to counterpart Richembergh, who warned against discrimination against the Roma and said that if it were the Roma, then I am here to defend their rights, not you Richembergh, and for this sentence he received a ghastly applause from the HDZ majority. And that sentence and that applause say that neither Memedi nor HDZ most understand what protection of minority rights is about. The minority cannot defend itself against most. Why? Well, because it's a minority. The majority is always responsible for the protection of the minority. My colleague Memedi does not realize that if the right of one Roma in Croatia is violated, it is not his shame, it is my shame. It's a disgrace to all of us who are most compared to the Roma minority. Because as most of us, we must protect Roma rights, not Memedi as their representative. Then it is the shame of this society, then it is a disgrace to all of us, and possibly the shame of Memedia is that he attacked Richembergh only because he warned of violating the rights of the Roma community in Croatia. That specialised protection is not good also in relation to the Serb minority community. Mother Teresa said a very nice sentence don't think there are 6 million people who need help, because then you won't help one, find one who needs help, and help him, and then you've accomplished your mission. As I visited my constituency, I met with a very rare and unusual phenomenon. I ran into a man who's actually apartrid, he doesn't have Croatian citizenship, he doesn't have anyone's citizenship. A man is 62 years old and lives in a wide river. He came to Croatia when he was two years old with his mother, so 60 years ago, he wasn't born in Croatia, and he can't get citizenship on that basis. His mother is not Croatian peoples, so she cannot get Croatian citizenship on that basis either. She was a Serbian. His father is unknown. He was born somewhere in Bosnia that man. Well, he can't according to the information his father lived in, I don't know what year he was registered to get that country's citizenship. The man is apatridus. Unbelievable. The only way for him to get citizenship is for the interior minister to give him discretionary decisions, because he has no other legal basis. Why does that citizenship matter to him? This broad river, it's a very poor city for you. People get welfare, mostly in the heat in the winter. He can't even get that heat, because he doesn't have citizenship. He's nobody and nothing. And his inhabitants took every two three stakes, and brought him that man should not die of winter. I have warned of this problem to representatives of the Serb minority in the Assembly, introducing them to this problem, I do not have to tell you that citizenship has not yet been won. So much for how much a specialised group in the Assembly can protect the rights of a vulnerable minority, or individuals of the same endangered minority. This specialization in the protection of rights is not good either because it can be the basis for almost political blackmail. I'll help you rebuild the houses, but join my party. Therefore, this protection of minority rights must be a job for all of us, and we must take it as a social obligation. There must be no party divisions in this regard, and in particular there must be no specialised protectors or specialised representatives protecting the rights of a particular minority. The government's relation, look, the attorney general, finds that this discrimination is present in the reconstruction of houses, in status issues, in employment. In the restoration of home for returnees inequality based on racial or ethnicity. The government says no records or statistics are kept according to the nationality of the applicant, but argues there is no discrimination. So how does he know there's no record of what nationality they've filed? The government is making a completely illogical statement. In employment, in its third report on Croatia of December 2004, the European Commission against racism and intolerance indicated the seriousness and importance of this issue and pointed out the need to collect statistics on members of national minorities because without them it would be difficult to implement Article 22 effectively. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. Despite the flow of several years, this system has not yet been established, according to the Ombudsman, it has not been established. So why hasn't it been established? With the right to rebuild, the attorney general says 7,000 cases have been pending. The government says it's not true, 500 are just, and 6 and a half thousand are in a secondary procedure. Well, they're not solved. God’s people have not been solved, and 15 years have passed. So what does it mean in the second-degree procedure? So I can last another 50 years, be in a second-degree procedure. It is resolved when the second - degree procedure is completed and when a person knows that he has the right to rebuild. About appearances, you know when discrimination starts? It begins with prejudice that the other one is different, especially if the minority has less rights than we do. Discrimination begins with prejudice, when the founder of HDZ and the first president told God that my wife was neither Serbian nor Jewish, he said one prejudice. I didn't hear anyone from HDZ rebel against that racist statement at the time, against that discriminatory statement. But then such paradigms become programs and there's the problem, and that's what we all have to fight together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62299	Thank you. We have one replica and three corrections. First replica, Mr. Vedran Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62300	You're going to tell me who these 14 officers your government has illegally fired in the city of Trogir are going to address? The Department of Administration's inspection has confirmed that. The decision to vacate from the Service has been annulled by the Official Court, and procedures for serious violations of official duty before the Official Court have been suspended and the requests have been rejected. After 20, 30 years of work in the city service, who will the 14 servants address? I repeat again, is this an example of how we would work at a state level if eventually, which I don't believe, we came to power? Because it's the worst form of political discrimination, fire 14 officers illegally. The ministry shows it's illegal, official court, but these people are on the street today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62301	Thank you. Replication response, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62302	They were not fired by some authority of ours, but by the authority of the city of Trogir, which was elected in the elections. You're asking who to turn to? So here I advise them to contact your deputy in Trogir who hired football players in a utility company because he probably understands or thinks football is a communal activity. So let them turn to him, and he will certainly hire them like these football players. He'll find them a job, then consider it a communal activity because he's playing on the grass. That's how your deputy understands it, probably you. Who do they turn to? So I can turn to Mr. Buljujasic, and he'll already tell them who to turn to and get a job.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62303	Correction, Mrs. Gyurjica twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62304	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, there's a series of incorrect allegations in his apathetic and cynical speech, but that's Mr. Stazic's style, he said. However, there is no reason to fear, Mr. Stazic. This government... You can laugh, but you have to admit something. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This government makes a lot of sense to suppress discrimination, and in any case, we also have an attorney general. '92. It's an established office in '94. They're regular reports. We have a lawyer for children's rights, we have a lawyer for gender equality, which is the most important counsel for people with disabilities. And there are also national programmes, and that's what this report says. Roma programs, national minorities, free legal aid. For example. The city of Zagreb is unreachable in how many people have asked for free legal aid, and one way of discrimination is to ask people, to ask you and your colleagues how to fly for 7 kunas on Brijuni when they were unable to pay for their vacation, so isn't that discrimination just the same? You can, and others can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62305	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62306	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, a respected representative, as always in his poetic debate, says of Shiroku Rijeka. Mr. Stazic there you went once or twice in your life, it's a settlement in Karlovac County where indeed Serbs of nationalities and Muslims live mostly. And the Government of the Republic of Croatia has invested a million and a half kuna in this small place to establish a House for the Elderly and Powerless who have free meals 3 times a day. At the same time, you insult an Islamic community who has invested considerable funds and also the embassies of Japan, Norway and there is a home where all residents have free meals. And you also insult social care services in the county, no person is without a record in social assistance if she needs it. And don't go on the ground every five years and say that the rights of individuals are so drastically compromised. People live hard, but let's find a way to help them. You could've given up your summers and bought a man 10 meters of wood, not his neighbors carrying it. It's a very simple way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62307	And correction by Mr. Representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62308	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I would answer with one thesis. Mr. Stazic wrongly said that minorities in the Republic of Croatia are at risk. Mr. Stazic is a specific case from Osijek-Baranja County where I can say that we are sometimes, so I don't look but we are threatened. I've got 800 employees at my company. A worker who meets his obligation, who gets drunk, doesn't come to work, steals money when he delivers shipments to me, doesn't care what kind of minority he is. And when you want to call him to account, then he calls for the rights of national minorities. I think our country has made so many steps in democracy from independence to today, so many positive shifts towards national minorities that we can be proud of our country and everything that national minorities today have in Croatia and here in the Croatian Parliament. And let those who represent their national minority speak for themselves about their position in this country. As long as we speak one extremist, all extremists, one thief, all thieves, one lunatic, all lunatics are far from the European Union. We're still out there at forty-five. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62309	Let's move on with the debate. Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62310	Thank you very much. Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Mr. Public Attorney, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. So today we have the first special report on discrimination that is in line with the law that was passed in 2009. And for these very reasons, for the first report of this kind, I would say that we can deal in part with the phenomena, or cases that occurred in 2009. This is what I would say if there was also an opportunity to generally talk and discuss the problem of discrimination, to discuss where everything appears, in which forms, who is all exposed to discrimination and ultimately how harmful it is. Discrimination is a harmful phenomenon globally. So she always hits those who are weakest, those who are most vulnerable and always guesses those who are so to say special in something. If we consider such a thing then definitely at global level but also at our local level, we need to fight this phenomenon in every way. Nice to meet you, too, so I welcome this report. I'm glad a law has been passed that treats such phenomena. But even if, especially in that area, the Ombudsman was given authority and I would say duties on that matter. But here is the Ombudsman's report that we see that the public is still informed, so people who are very much affected by certain types of discrimination are not yet at a satisfactory level. So, people still say and do not recognize what is all a certain kind of discrimination. If they recognize her, then who to turn to in that sense, to point out, to complain, and how, or in what way. Excellent campaigns are also going on TV and we saw them on jumbo posters, on these city lights or billboards along the road, etc. So there are excellent campaigns, but it's still not known enough. And I believe that for years this phenomenon will, therefore, be shown in a certain way and in a certain way, be said and reduced. Because I expect that the fight against discrimination will in some ways bear fruit. But I would especially like to highlight here in one part of the report where the Ombudsman is talking about the so-called. proactive action. It is precisely the importance of such an action, which will not wait for discrimination in a given place or in a particular form to occur and then act after that, but rather to point to harmfulness preventively so as not to occur at all. But I'd say it's not enough that only the public defender is talking about it, but that all those who have the possibility should talk about it, especially those in whose midst such phenomena occur. I will refer here to the authority of the attorney general referred to in Article 12 fourth point, which says that the attorney general warns the public of the occurrences of discrimination. I would particularly refer here to a phenomenon that is not so common, but in these rare forms it is very awkward. It's embarrassing because it gives a very ugly example to young people who are still the future of this country because it gives a very ugly picture to our country and because it's promoting a bad form of behavior in the form that it's a model of behavior because it appears on a stage where certain idols, or role models, are primarily young people. Of course, someone has recognized, and for someone who isn't, it's about the occurrences of discrimination on sports grounds. I think it is in this particular respect that the attorney general, but all of us who notice such things have both the duty and the obligation to publicly express both disagreement and criticism of such forms of behavior. Sports events and everything that happens about discrimination on sports grounds is very important for us in Croatia. Why? Because Croatia is in a certain way perceived as a sports nation. We're a small country by population, but we have a lot of top sports results. If a certain negative phenomenon occurs on such occasions, in this case discrimination is very bad. Of course, if we are talking about some more specific elements of this phenomenon, then first of all we are talking about top-notch sports where such things happen within a large number of viewers. So, I'm talking about football, I'm talking about water polo, I'm talking about basketball and similar events. Of course, the most popular sport not only in Croatia but also outside Croatia is football. And that's exactly the kind of area where these phenomena happened. And to such phenomena should be reacted. I have to say that there wasn't always any good reactions, even to be realistic when the whole stadium was running for one of our successful menus an ugly name which was basically discriminatory it was very likable, to that level that he too accepted as a joke, because we simply can't say otherwise to fight it. Or when some people in the leadership of that alliance make statements that are basically very discriminatory, we accept it as something that has appeared so, and I will remind you that we have even one former football team who has a court ruling for discrimination, of course not in Croatia, in another country, but you see in other countries such things are sanctioned. Football Europe has first of all come to know the worst form of discrimination, which is racism, it is very active against it, it has launched a very comprehensive action, so on. The PHARE programme, which includes virtually all the top football players of Europe and the world. Why them? Because they're just these idols, they're just role models to young people, and if they say or show something, then they accept it. In our case, I would also say that in these situations responsibility is not only at clubs, not just at football players, not only at administrations, but also at fans, who are more or less organized on media that transmit such events, etc. I have to say I was very surprised recently by reading an article about how the fans' association wanted to actively engage in this kind of programme, so this European PHARE programme but the club management they were rooting for was against it. These are amazing facts, but here they are happening in our environment. A clear sport is I repeat an area where everything that is good can be promoted, but everything that is bad can be contained in a certain way if it is well presented. And in this context I repeat the role and responsibility of practically all of us, but I would say, however, if Mr. Pussy's attorney, his office, so that body that received such powers and such responsibility and everything else, then in the first place I believe that he will deal with it. On the other hand, if the Croatian Parliament has already given such powers, passed the law and everything else, then it is also necessary to give an opportunity to do so, it should also provide conditions and opportunities and resources. In this part, I very much welcome the report, namely the conclusions of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of the national minorities who adopted the report, so he did not take note of it but accepted the report from the Ombudsman and gave the Government the responsibility to find appropriate resources in the 2011 state budget. I've also talked about the funds in the framework of a report by the attorney general, and now I repeat, let's give the opportunity to deal with this great evil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62311	Thank you. We have five replicas. The first is the replica, MPs' ladies and vice president Zeljke Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62312	Thank you very much. A colleague, Heffer, once mentioned in a sentence that he supported the attorney general and this report. And there is no other way to say it, but to support the counsel's efforts and everything he points to in this report. However, my colleague Heffer seems to have long gone by when we can only agree with what the occupier writes in the report and support him. I think it's been a long time since we in the Parliament have had to demand a qualitative shift in that. In his opening part, the ombudsman stressed the importance of the state's role and the state's functioning in countering all forms and forms of discrimination. The report also shows that there are some definitions of discrimination and that in its work and the treatment of all the applications that have come lead to this discrimination. However, it seems to me that in Croatia the biggest problem is something that has not entered into the definition of discrimination itself, which I would call discrimination against all citizens on the basis of the abuse of the power of state bureaucracy. It seems to me that they are also going through and, or equally, they are not going through these barriers, nor those belonging to minorities, nor women, nor children, are all being discriminated in the same way, and that is something why the responsibility lies with the state, and it is one inefficient state such as this, a state that does not care about its main tasks and thus creates a real sense of discrimination among all and animosity and division in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62313	Answer, Mr. Agent Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62314	Dear colleague Antunovic, I thank you for this replica of yours. Namely, if we are talking about the role of the state in the work, first of all in the work of the Ombudsman's Office to combat discrimination in the fight against discrimination, then I will return to the conclusion of my own debate, and that is on the question of funds. So we pass the law in 2009, and for 2010, we do not provide for funds specifically related to that law and to that part of 2009 when it was, and now for 2011, it is up to us to try and get the parliamentary representatives to help us find those funds in the budget for the work of the Ombudsman. As for some conditional general discrimination against citizens over all of these negative things that are happening in the country, I will remind myself that the Office of the Public Attorneys in all those previous reports, so that the General Report of the Police Attorney has always pointed to discrimination against the weak in relation to those who manage to achieve their interests with various channels, that he pointed to discrimination both in national and in the age and in the sex category, and by forming these lawyers by certain categories, I expect that, and therefore, I support that statement by the Advocate General on the Human Rights Committee, that a specific part of the specific report should be added to the specific part concerning the individual categories that bring these other administrations to the Ombudsman in this section. So I believe that we're going to start, we're going to go further, but we need to secure certain means to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62315	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62316	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Attorney General. Well, my colleague Heffer, one of your thoughts was and I think it's well said that it should act preventively so that discrimination doesn't occur. I think it's very important at this moment, and it's very important that we act preventively. I'll just look back at one example, and the social defender mentions discrimination against disabled patients, and he would say one example of building objects that visit disabled people. Whether they are pharmacies, health institutions, or other institutions, which do not normally go to without a direct need, it often happens that this discrimination is also about entering such spaces. I think it is necessary that we should not issue permits for the opening of arranged spaces, whether these are some new spaces, new buildings, whether the editing or adaptations of the old ones are often even protected monumental objects, but without certain access to such institutions should not be issued. And I just think that that way when permits are issued for such facilities that state bureaucracy often instead of acting preventively, and their task would be not to issue such permits, it does not act preventively but rather, with its inadequacy and issuing such permits, even fosters certain discrimination against such a group of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62317	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62318	I've been looking for...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62319	And the answer. Excuse me, Mr. Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62320	Thank you very much. A respected colleague of Bodakosh's that Mr. Attorney General said here proactively, but that's basically it doesn't matter. Well, I'd like to question proactiveity or prevention not only to tie it to state institutions, but to tie it to something else. I'd tie up with people, tie up with kindergarten kids through elementary schools, high schools and to adulthood. So when a child matures to grow up with one notion that diversity does not necessarily have to be problematic. I've kind of seen a personal experience since I have a grandson somewhere five-year-old what it looks like in kindergarten when children are singled out for any reason, so, as we call it, they make fun of him. It is at these levels that we need to start by clarifying equality in full and then there will be no problem. And as for state institutions, of course state institutions need to be professional, and if they are professional, then there will be no problem in health care or in any other sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62321	Thank you. Mr. Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62322	Mr. Heffer, good job on your granddaughter for five years. I'm kidding. But here's what you mentioned among other campaigns. However, I may have a slightly different opinion. You can see for yourself where our campaigns usually lead you and where that money is usually left. On that principle, half of itself, half of the pattern is given. Clearly, the pattern is always the same, and that pattern is usually on the market for victims of fascism. There's his stables, and his pastures are in these media houses that I don't know whose needs are run by certain campaigns. So my proposal would be gentlemen stop these paid campaigns on HRT. HRT is state television, although individuals privatize it there, it's more regimeal than state-owned, it's just as absolute, but stop these campaigns in such a form. On the basis of the subscription, they receive a billion and 100 million kuna. So what's the problem then, where's the problem of making some stop drug campaign, stop drinking, stop racism and so on? I agree, but I'll be maybe a little more direct when you mention football, and that's the problem we only have with football, when you're running out of I don't know how many thousands of throats you kill, kill a Serb, for home ready, we stand up, etc., and really that practice needs to end already. And let HRT carry out these campaigns on its own cost because anyway, I don't know how many millions of people are arriving at an annual level of over a billion and 100 million kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62323	Mr. Ivan Bagaric, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62324	Thank you, Mr. President. Articles 209 and 214 have been injured and this is a typical deviation from the rules of conduct in the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Cain, you regularly accuse everyone and everyone at your continuous press conferences, and what you have done now is highly unacceptable and unacceptable. And absolutely do not contribute to the development of democracy, nor the progress of Croatia, nor to this in the fight against discrimination. By the way, that's what you're breaking her up with. Don't do this, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62325	I think this remark is in place. Let's refrain from these qualifications, I've repeated 100 times, for nothing. Someone thinks it's their right to use it all the time. Please, let's refrain from such qualifications. Mr. Nenad Stazic, and Mr. Heffer's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62326	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Cain, I agree with the campaigns, so I don't fully support them. I think campaigns are important. I mean, every day I walk past a jumbo poster that promotes disabled athletes. One beautiful jumbo poster and always, let me say, remind me that people are really equal, or that they can achieve equal sports results, regardless of what they have lost part of their body at a certain point of life. It's just like that, there's a whole series of different commercials that we see on TV. I'm in the part where you're talking about I don't know the profits, etc. Of course I'm not up for some "Fimi Media" or I don't know who's doing such a campaign, so later on, it's been discovered that they're more money than they say they've been blacked out in the campaign. But I think campaigns are good. As far as football is concerned, I used it as the most popular sport. There are such phenomena in other sports but there are also very bright examples in football. I say this European project against racism and all those who have joined, including these fans who wanted to expose one banner at the football game but did not get the support of the club's administration shows that even on sports grounds against discrimination can be very good and good. I'm still for that kind of fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62327	Thank you. We have a replica of Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62328	You're talking about discrimination in football stadiums, offensive shoutings, etc. Well, it's discriminatory but it's a reflection of primitiveism. I'm more concerned about systematic discrimination. 80,000, at least 80,000 in Croatia today are people who work and do not receive wages. They've been discriminated against in two views. First of all, according to those lucky people who, every day, are getting less and less and less paid. But they are also in legal protection, in a legal position, discriminated against. We've suggested three times that non-payments be a felony for which you go to prison. Three times this HDZ majority refused. And what's the consequence? Well, the worker doesn't care if you pay him his salary, so you steal his wallet with that pay or steal it so you don't pay him a salary. He lost his salary one way or another. The only time you steal his pay wallet is when you go to court and prison, and this way, if you steal it so that you don't pay him, nothing happens to you. So these people, and they're 80,000, are double-discriminatory. And now this football-scanning thing is a reflection of primitiveism, but this is a system. This is not a mistake, this is a intention. This is three times the will of the parliamentary majority, the HDZ will not let those who do not pay the workers' wages be punished. We won't, we won't, because we're for workers to work and not get paid and these to be unpunished. It's discrimination in the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62329	We have another replica, Mr. Representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62330	Thank you very much. You were talking about discrimination in sports, especially in football. Otherwise, football is an interesting place and there are different discriminations. I'm going to give you an example of how you're going to discrimination in a small town, in the town of Trogir. So that's where you hire 10 football players, but you don't get a job at a football club, you get a job at a public administration, or a utility company, and they get paid where they don't work. Then you have this kind of discrimination. The same football club employs the son and son-in-law of the then mayor. And what's your score exactly? Well, it would be easy if it were just football players, if it wasn't for a dozen journalists. And now all this is coming to you in court, and 17 people are being brought in, and there are conscious talks in that city where, say, before the last local elections, 46 people received illegally and where 20 of them are being paid and do not work. Now there's someone out there complaining that someone got 17 fired, and you only had 46 wrong, illegal employees. At the same time, in this town, here is your specifics, this city is not in the Croatian bank in which it is not in charge. What's the score? The result is that the city is constantly ahead of the blockade. And what's the solution? Well, it's good because that city has managed to work today, because simply taking into account the recession, you take everything else, you have a situation where those people who are still working there are still getting a hard pay. So, I point out. You have different forms of discrimination in sports. But the worst thing for you is when people who run this sports club, or when they run the city, they have no idea what's going on in their town, and at the same time their closest associate ends up in detention for a three million kuna crime. So different forms of discrimination at different levels.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62331	Thank you. Mr. Heffer's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62332	I'll be very brief. Thank you very much, dear fellow Lucin. Obviously, there are those who have not received a job, and they play football. They need to file charges. If there's someone out there at that football club who plays football for the club and doesn't get a job at the utility company. And as for this, no one knows. You know, there's that "Dwarves have no idea!" It's a common phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62333	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62334	Honorable President, Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. The entry into force of this Law on Discrimination, which we are talking about today, is actually the beginning of 2009 rounding up this institutional framework for the prevention of discrimination in Croatia. However, what I need to ask myself is this question, and I am now asking whether conditions are created and necessary for this law to come to life and indeed become an effective tool to combat discrimination. Because the regulation becomes operational only when conditions are created for its implementation, and we are unfortunately in Croatia too often in the situation that we are witnessing the existence of a huge gap between law and practice. In a large number of cases, laws are passed only to satisfy the form and then become a dead letter on paper, are not implemented and do not bring any changes. And that is actually one of those basic reasons why Croatia is still standing at the door of the European Union, and it is not in its society. Therefore, this first report, submitted by the Ombudsman to the Croatian Assembly after the first year of application of this law, can conclude that there will be much left in the application of this law only at this one declarative level and that there is not one real support for its full application. First of all, for the implementation of this law, we heard this as an observation, but no financial resources were provided from a series of debaters for the staff and material strengthening of the Office of the Ombudsman. These funds were not allocated in the first year of application of the law, so in 2009 they were unfortunately not allocated in either 2010. Therefore, as a central authority for the implementation of this Act, lawyers are given new tasks but not the necessary means for them to be executed. It is clear that this is why the defence attorneys on the ground are limited, and one of the consequences is that it is precisely visible from the Report that Croatian citizens still do not recognise discrimination. And that is why one significant part of their complaints filed by the Advocate General is unfounded, and they are submitted to them, because they have a strong sense of injustice and show dissatisfaction with the dissatisfaction of the national authorities and the bodies of the judiciary and the way in which the material regulations apply. Keep going. According to the Ministry of Justice in 2009, only 7 criminal proceedings for discrimination were initiated, with none of them still being completed, or legally resolved, and when it comes to civil litigation, only two were launched, one of these two was rejected. In doing so, it should be said that in the very fact that citizens are slightly reporting discrimination because they still do not recognize it, it is also the fact that in Croatia there is actually no complete data on judicial proceedings related to discrimination. At the request of the Ombudsman, the High Violent Court, as well as the Municipal Civil Court in Zagreb, it was obvious that no adjustment of the programme software for statistical monitoring of cases related to discrimination has yet been made. So the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination We have, he is in office, but the competent ministry has done nothing, or almost nothing to collect data from the section of criminal and municipal courts, in order to ensure this one statistical monitoring of judicial cases from the field of discrimination. Then how do you underestimate the effects of the law at all? And in the end, I'm going to say a few words about another reason for a small number of reports relating to discrimination. Almost at the same time, with the application of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, the Law on Free Legal Assistance began to apply. This law should provide the social and economically endangered category of Croatian citizens with one professional, therefore professional representation before the court, but with the financial support of the state. In one word, it should allow for greater access to legal protection for all in need. Unfortunately, however, this did not happen because of a series of restrictions on the use of this legal option, first of all, and this actually borders the absurdity of extremely strict property criteria. According to the Ministry of Justice since the application of the law, only a little more than 5,000 applications for the use of free legal aid were received by April 2010, of which some 3,000 500 were approved, so about two thirds of the total number of applications were submitted. On the other hand, we have data from the Croatian Bar and also a number of NGOs, which say that in the years prior to the adoption of this law, some of the forms of free legal assistance required dozens of Croatian citizens. Is it possible that the conditions of life in Croatia have improved so much lately that free legal aid is now needed in only 5,000 cases? Of course not. The decline of living standards and this can be said by the dramatic decomposition of Croatian society to a rich minority and poor majority points to the conclusion that free legal aid is absolutely necessary. However, the legal constraints are so much that it is inaccessible for the vast majority of the citizens in need, and that is why the citizens do not use it, and the Croatian Government has provided another argument in another way, that in Croatia they do not actually live badly, because there are only 5,000 citizens who need free legal assistance. It was also provided with an argument that shopping centres are full of customers, as well as an argument that 200 thousand Croatian citizens regularly winter out of state. So the story of 200 thousand wealthy Croatian families undoubtedly came true, but unfortunately it is only a fig leaf on the nakedness of those millions of other Croatian citizens living in the poverty zone. To conclude, there will be much support, above all a lot of political will, to create the conditions for this law to bring about the effects that it has been adopted, or put into use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62335	Thank you. We have replicas. First is Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62336	Thank you very much. My colleagues, you said in fact that our citizens in this report see that citizens feel dissatisfaction, feel discrimination in various systems, or of course they report. You also mentioned that there are actually no conditions for implementing this law. I'd just look back on one small part and that's an inequality based on a health condition. We saw in the report very little, a few lines about it, but it bothered me that in one way the culprits were called, and that they were the medical lobbys, and then you say that it was the Association for the Protection of Patients' Rights, that they are not seeking protection from fear because of a strong medical lobby. I would disagree with that, we know that the medical profession is very responsible, that it works under conditions that are difficult, that they are responsible for the citizens, and that the real culprit system, which you are essentially further stating, because it is said in the media that the violation of the right of patients when they are looking for some financial giving, is exactly the culprit of the health system. That's basically the real culprit for which our patients are cut off, discriminated against, and not the lobbys of healthcare professionals as indicated. So let's think of various examples, remember the violation of patients' rights, and then an absurd situation when HZO is asking that a doctor, a family doctor, be punished for asking to pay for a patient who had kidney cancer metastases, who was in one system, actually in a study where he could get this medicine that was much more effective and better. These are our absurds. So we have to look for the real culprit, and that's the health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62337	Madam Representative Nadica Jelash, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62338	My colleagues you mentioned in your replica several quite concrete cases of life, from everyday practice, because there are indeed cases of discrimination in all areas. But what I repeat in response to your replica is that political will is the primary resource, the primary, primary thing to be used, that is to say, to bring this Law on Discrimination of Discrimination into practice in all areas and to apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62339	We have another replica, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62340	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you said that Croatian citizens do not recognize discrimination. They may not recognize the work of the Ombudsman, but I believe that more than 300 thousand people of Croatian citizens who are unemployed today clearly recognize discrimination because according to the Constitution they have the right to work, the right to raise their family and the right to live a worthy man. That more than 300 thousand workers also recognize discrimination because they do not receive pay or adequate pay for their work. That more than 800,000 pensioners also recognize discrimination because they live on pensions if they pay for all the directors, if they don't warm up during winter they don't have a pound of bread or a liter of milk from such a pension. But the worst is political discrimination that is visible every year in the budget, in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. I have nothing against the municipality of the Princes of Vinograds or some other smaller municipalities where they are mostly part of a national minority, but in a state budget where HDZ is not in power or those who raise their hands so that HDZ and this government survive in power do not get a crumb, a crumb from the budget. This is true for almost all of Slavonia, which is completely politically discriminated against, which at this point, does not leave even a crumb to survive and could go into investment and from the state budget, given that political discrimination does not receive anything in the act. And perhaps Croatian citizens... discrimination at every step, but most politicians do not recognise and do not want to recognise discrimination in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62341	Answer, Madam Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62342	Unfortunately, my colleague, I would agree with you that this particular political discrimination is the source of a number of other discrimination. I could also refer to you in such a way as to say that the Međimurje County from which I come from this title and on this basis is being discriminated against. Too often, unfortunately, Croatia is mentioned only to Drava in this house.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62343	Thank you. We have another replica, Mrs. Nada Cavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62344	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Jelash, I fully agree with your debate, and I'm going to say part of what my colleague Vinkovic said, and this is about the next one. Indeed, in Croatia, and especially in Virovitica-Podravska County from which I come in part is political discrimination. Namely, no one can get a job in Virovitica-Podravska County, meaning no citizen who is not a member of the ruling party, which is HDZ. And not only that, after the previous local elections, individuals from the SDP who worked in the Virovitica-Podravska County and who had contracts indefinitely for them were cut off jobs as if this county had no other business but here... the jobs of agricultural engineers, and this is about the poorest county. And what is most tragic is that the decisions of the Administrative Court are taken where they are meant and, where that person is in fact, where the suit is respected and where this person should be returned to work, the mayor does not respect the decisions of the Administrative Court but makes the same decision again in the same procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62345	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. It's Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62346	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. This is about a very important topic, a socially important topic in which we should have the proper attention and sensitivity of all individuals, society, state authorities and most authorities. It seems so inappropriate to me that today there are no representatives of the state authorities because what is said here on discrimination issues needs to be heard and listened. I think it's a shame. Especially since this is about vulnerable groups that need special protection from all of us. And what groups are these? First, it's about minority groups of all kinds. And it's about the poor thing too. It is, therefore, those groups whose position has been disabled in advance and those whose society is ultimately unrequited due to various circumstances. Therefore, they deserve such protection, they seek, they need protection from all. From this place to all those responsible for law enforcement. It seems to me that, in practice, we are too widespread instead of attention indifferent to these issues and indifferent to the situation of those people who are at risk. There is, even a habit is created, and it's highly expanded to turn our heads in that thing in no time. Here someone was talking today about whether or not discrimination is the main standard of respect and law enforcement. Therefore, legality is the main standard. Why does it matter? Because it's about achieving justice, and because it's about whether or not I have a chance to develop. These two elements can also measure this issue of minority groups and the issue of poverty as such. When it comes to law enforcement or legality, we are as a society or state or system as counterpart Stazic said very vulnerable, because many cases of law enforcement are done both when and how to whom. I'm not saying it's dominant, but if you have phenomena to any extent both when and by whom it's enough to make an alarm, and it's enough for us all to learn lessons, I repeat, we individuals and this House and the state government at the highest level. You just have to see what it's about. I'm worried about the bad behavior of those responsible for legality that I'm worried that this phenomenon isn't being seen. And I'm even more concerned that we have a phenomenon that actually for those who don't take care of legality there's patronage even political. There is also political protection, no matter what they do against society. It's actually about a phenomenon that has political coverage. And that's something that needs to be taken into account. This is where the secretary of state was manifested on Friday about the Attorney General's report. The government is aware of that. I'm here to add that the reports of the Attorney General have been long-term. In recent years, therefore, all reports of the Ombudsman are beginning to be taken into account. I think that suggests we'd like to cover up the problem. This problem and all that the Ombudsman points to by nature are events and phenomena and conditions in a society that must not be covered up. In particular, this must not be done by authority. To take note of something that speaks of sensitive issues and difficult fates is actually a message we don't admit, we don't care, we can't be interested in this. This has got to be good. That's what you wrote. Let's see what it is, let's see what we can do with it, let's see how we can work it out. So we can even see why you wrote it, let's see if it's true. But we don't care that's an attitude that can't be accepted here, that can't be accepted and I'm willing to say it or I mean I can't accept it. I think it's a shame, I think it's a shame, especially because someone here said it today. The staff attorney's job, the police attorney's reports, his performances in this House were based on facts, they were well-intentioned and commended. And you should use those reports and the attorney general's office as a lever to get the thing going. And I'll say one more thing. It seems to me that this incomprehension for the reports of the attorney general stems from what the attorney general brings here and writes is the same as the work of the state authorities, and the government itself to the extent that it is responsible. That's why it's important. This is where the secretary of state said on Friday there's no money, there's no real money. But money often in the context of this topic has a way for who and how. I'm here to say two, three illustrations without great claim except for what's legal and what's fair. In one town in the last two weeks, a family has been brought in, moved in. He's staying in an apartment and it's said to be empty, temporary. And believe me, it will come to an apartment on a larger surface very quickly, as you believe some who filed the request four years ago will not get to that apartment yet. Maybe he'll die before that. Believe me, one more thing. I got a call from a woman who got housing, but then she got a solution that she had to get out, so the lock was changed because she didn't write her name on the door. Sick, barely alive. It's something that's for who and how to coma. And I'll end up the next way. What the Ombudsman points to in a series of his reports, and even in this, it really needs to be taken note, informally, really, of the government as the most genuine thing that can help in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62347	Thank you. We have a replica. The first is Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62348	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear colleague said that this House as well as the government should protect the laws and that's where I agree with Mr. Representative. However, this House should never come up with draft laws that represent political discrimination relating, for example, to territorial structure, legal personality and a special way of financing. As the constitutional law has come, where the establishment of a state in a country I have called the real name of SAO Krajina is sought. Here I received an invitation "The Future of Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem" 15 years after the Erdut Agreement and not only in the former occupied parts of Croatia are human rights threatened, but it is also throughout Croatia. The only way out, so for the whole of Croatia, is in the decentralisation of Croatia where the funds will be realised where they are realized and remain there. At the very end of what I want to say is clear and loud that the war in Croatia started Milosevic's regime and the South Chetnic Army, without being Croats or the Croatian Army and that it was a defensive and just war.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62349	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62350	Comrade Vinkovic, I advocate the principle let's see what's going on and when it comes to the report of the attorney general, and then I guess it means let's see what's going on, let's clear it up. I think let's see what's going on here, and let's see what you've got here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62351	Thank you. We have another replica, Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go. Excuse Nenad Stazic before, replica also. Oh, well, I mean, by the way, I just skipped.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62352	Thank you very much. You're talking about how the government has an apology. There's not enough money. I'm not going to speak in the light of all this latest knowledge of how the money went missing and where they went, and they're gone. Let's just assume that all of this wasn't there, let's just assume that there's no money for objective reasons. It's extremely cynical, it's highly unacceptable that any society, not just the government, but that society reacts so that lack of money is the reason for discrimination. A righteous one can also be in poverty, and there only a man shows how capable he is of righteousness. It just shows how much he cares about keeping those who are in the minority, who are weaker, who are unprotected no longer in this poverty. That there is no need for the first to be spared on them, and that poverty is not an additional reason we see a poor state of equality, in respect of the respect of the right, in the matter of non-discrimination of certain parts of society. That sentence, in an explanation, made me particularly confused by the Government's view, is not the government which, which has the right to such a sentence, not just the Government, has no such society because a society that can express such a sentence must be deeply ashamed, deeply. That may be the hardest line in this opinion the government has ever delivered to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62353	Answer, Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62354	Comrade Stazic, people in the area of discrimination seek only the elemental law and basic conditions for survival. I agree it doesn't take a lot of money. Now there's a paper full of big corruption stories behind which big money is rolling. Law enforcement is often enough with the proper attention, without much money, I agree that this is not about the wallet, but about some other reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62355	Thank you. And we still have a replica of Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62356	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here colleagues and colleagues in the debates, counterpart Gajica heard on several occasions the return of discrimination, violation of human and minority rights, the increase of corruption, the uncertainty of investment. I personally believe that on Friday and today we sent a bad message to the regiment who listens to us, Europe, to the world that Croatia is an insecure country. Of course, my opinion against these evils is that we all fought together, but that's why we adopted the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination a year ago 9 July 2008 and, moreover, the Ombudsman and his team, the Advocate General for Children, the Advocate for Gender Equality, the Advocate for Persons with Disabilities, and, of course, the application of the law, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the Law on Labour, the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on State Servants, the Criminal Law, the Law on... Armed Forces and the Law on Free Legal Assistance. [[You don't understand.]] If we apply these, these 7, 8 laws, and the attorney general and the attorney general, and all of us institutions in charge of that part of the job, to reduce discrimination and all the forms that I have listed here in the introduction. I mean, I repeat, we've sent a bad message to that colleague and colleague who's been increasing problems that aren't really that big and insecure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62357	Answer, Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62358	A colleague, for the legitimacy of the Republic of Croatia, is more important as we treat people all on elementary issues. Telling me about it publicly or not, that fact as a criterion as we are as a society remains, I think it's important, not to say it's honorable, it's public speaking, and so it will recognize us as being honest and honest in elementary things. I'm not afraid of that exaggeration.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62359	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Mile Horvatt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62360	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Attorney General. A report on the 2009 discrimination that is ahead of us, we will accept at the SDSS Club, because this report is acceptable to us. First, because in a kind of written sense, he is correct in the facts he stands for, but indicative in certain segments, which I will later say something about. I can also say that it is also an acceptable part that speaks of how the body covered by the Ombudsman should operate operationally, so that it works reactively, I assume that this refers to the fact that it reacts to some phenomena in a way that even appears as a mixer in court proceedings, i.e. in a reactive action it activates even judicial protection mechanisms. The proactive action discussed here we see as the need to create a certain public awareness of the existence of negative phenomena still, i.e. the need to create a certain level of social hygiene in relation to the occurrence of discrimination. In the report itself, we see that there are two kinds of phenomena that are kind of indicative of us. First, we are known to be, and quite well, that we have brought this thing to a regulation that is at a very high European level, a standard, meaning a certain European quality. But it is also evident from this report, and we also know that, before entering the EU today, certain segments of society are obviously not aware of the seriousness of this moment and exercise their powers too casually and in fact, so sometimes they get the impression that they are thus obstructing the implementation of their legal obligations. The second negative segment that indicates from this report is that discrimination is precisely discrimination, that discrimination is the most present in the field of justice, in the sphere of the administration, in the field of labour relations, that discrimination is very present in the field of special state concern, i.e. the area affected by the war. And finally, by discrimination according to this report, the most endangered group, minority groups, are Serbs, they are Roma and they are Bosniaks. In particular, I would say a few things here, given the time that allows me to do so. The proceedings in the judiciary in the matters of return of the seized property, which is mainly property of returnees of Serbian nationality, lasts for 10 years and more. It is something that is not acceptable at this time and is not acceptable to us. We also believe that it has not fully revived the use of minority languages before judicial authorities. The house reconstruction segment was mentioned here, so it is also said that 7,000 demands are still unresolved over complaints from dissatisfied persons. If we have a fact and if we know that on one side there is a great effort and organisational and material nature to bring the problem of rebuilding the house to an end, because we consider it to be one of the very important issues in the conclusion of chapters and closures of Chapter 23, then it cannot be clear to us what kind of officials in some administrative apparatus have allowed us to have in this procedure 7 thousand pending requests and thus by their indifference or silence of the administration, which in practice is often called, to question a very serious, sensitive process related to very serious deadlines. We also have a large number of cases of problems in obtaining Croatian citizenship of people who were born in Croatia, who live in Croatia and who founded a family and cannot solve the problem of their citizenship. We talked about it and asked a question. We received assurances from the competent ministry that the matter and the process, the process, will speed it up, but we have the knowledge that the matter did not move encouragingly from the previous point. We also have knowledge of this that there are a large number and unfounded deleted citizenships. So we have an interesting example from Vukovar where a person was born in Vukovar, has a neatly issued housekeeper and all other personal documents such as IDs, registration licenses, and when he checked into the home office to schedule the wedding, he was told that his housekeeper was once misissued, all his documents were taken away and the man lives without documents. Now he's in a long-term, uncertain administrative dispute with a status that's a life problem for him, and apparently he shouldn't have gotten married any further, he wouldn't have this problem. So these are some of the things that we warn through this example, and there are more of them where we should ask one basic question about the responsibilities of the people of the executives in the administrative authority who allow themselves to make such mistakes and cause people some damage that is incorrigible. We could also talk about free legal aid as a project, but it requires a more extensive debate and now is not the time to do so. And finally for minorities right now, which is the most interesting thing, and that's the segment of employment. We do, the fact is we have a constitutional law with a defined article. 22, we have a minority quota institute and an invitation to some minority quota in competition when people of the same professional quality should compete at the same workplace. We also have a government action plan since 2008 where we have assigned ourselves some tasks, and we have provided priorities to prevent this segment of discrimination in the employment of members of national minorities in public authorities. And finally, when we have all this together as one complex regulation that allows us not to come into the field of discrimination that I'm talking about right now, we have an obstruction of these legal regulations on the ground, and there are very few cases that we can record that say that these criteria have been respected by the regulations, or these things that I've been talking about. So the fact and our conclusion is that we still don't have a certain level of social consciousness in this whole thing. That we're still not all equal in that part, that there are equal and there are more equal. So it should also be said that it is unacceptable for us to expect that at a time when a Serb is retired it would be expected that a young man of Serbian nationality is employed at the workplace or something like that, however, not happening. And that's where the possibilities are closed, in some ways, for members of the Serbian or some other minorities to be employed. In conclusion, we think that this report is correct, we think that these negative phenomena that we have now talked about with more or less bile, we need to be resolved because by joining the EU, by joining that group of countries, everything will be less tolerance for the behaviour that this report is talking about. And we finally think that this Law on Discrimination of Discrimination is a very correct space, a model and a way to act as a public defender and in some kind of reactive active and proactive sense, as we have spoken here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62361	Thank you. We have replicas. First, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62362	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Horvat, said, cited a whole series of discrimination on the rights of national minorities, so he also mentioned rights and discrimination in the area of justice. I would say that you are part of the right colleague Horvat, but the biggest discrimination that has happened in the recent Croatian history and in the modern Croatian state is that when the Law of Forgiveness was passed which was forgiven by the Chetnic evildoers who slaughtered and killed Croatian youth, when they were forgiven for destroying and destroying Croatian homes, hospitals, churches, our villages and cities, which allowed them to enjoy the parliamentary pensions of this honorable House while Croatian defenders were discriminated against in such a way that they were imprisoned to a pillar of shame and today the Chetnic evildoers receive parliamentary pensions, and Croatian generals are in cells of 3x2 metres. The best example and the possibility of suppressing this form of discrimination is that the Law of Forgiveness should be abolished. And Mr. Gaitza and you for a little while, I'd say. There's nothing to argue about to see who did what. It is known exactly what was done in 1990 and 1991, and Chetnik evildoers belong in prison, not in parliamentary pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62363	Mrs. Vesna Pusic. But me before you do, I don't think these dictionaries should be brought into debates. If we can hold back, and we can replicate, but within one normal political communication. He has the word Mrs. Vesna Pusic, like, for breaking the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62364	Mr. President, Article 209 relating to insults, the way in which we communicate in Parliament at all. This really isn't appropriate. You've already said, so I don't have much to add. But I find it really unacceptable to speak and accuse people in this way in the House. If there's anything to be said, then it's the acts that are illegal, and then something about it needs to be done. If this isn't about acts that are illegal, then I'm asking you to give up this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62365	We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62366	Thank you, Mr. President. Injury of the Rules of Procedure shall also be subject to Article 209 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the When I say what I'm saying, I'm not talking about any national minority, I'm talking about Serbs, I'm talking about Chetniks. Chetnik's a Chetnik, so it was him, whatever his name was. And when I talk about how we should talk in the Croatian Parliament, we should talk about it in a way that people understand us. And no one here is offended, but those who have violated and threatened Croatian statehood, who have done so, should be punished and answered. If it's not subject to the law, I don't know what should be subject to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62367	We have an answer to this replica, Mr. Representative Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62368	Thank you, Mr. President. So, my colleague Buriq and I at least know each other very well, we were and we were gathered in one term together in Osijek. Therefore, between the two of us there should be some vague things. But when I was talking about this first one of yours, so about your first remark, when I was talking about discrimination, I mostly analyzed the current report by the attorney general on those elements that we're being shown here. So, I didn't make anything up, I just analyzed it, and I backed a few things with concrete facts from the field. In this second part, I wouldn't speak at all, because I think it's one thesis with which you're trying to pollute with the public right now. You have your reasons why that is. Everything else that you've said and qualified at the moment in a certain way and probably a matter of some judicial authorities, investigative authorities, and it's up to them to say all of this... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62369	We have a replica of Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62370	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's me and Mr. Mile Horvatt, since we come from the same Osijek-Baranja County. The esteemed representative said that somewhere around 7,000 buildings, or renovations of houses have not yet been completed. However, I believe that these objects are far more, that they are not just objects that are located and listed by national minorities. And I also believe that the exclusive funds should not only go from the state budget, but that the state of Serbia should be involved in this reconstruction. I also refer to President Tadic's promise, and it should not only be understood as a sign of goodwill, but as well as the obligation of the Serbian state, given that grenades, or the Croatian Army, did not fire grenades across Belgrade, but that is exactly what it is, I do not know how else to call this army, because it is not the Yugoslav People's Army anymore, but simply the South Chetnic Army, which was the Supreme Commander of Milosevic and who started the war in Croatia. On the other hand, I am again talking about political discrimination that is not only visible through this reconstruction of houses, but is just visible through the state budget. So if you count all the municipalities listed in the state budget, you will see how many million thanks to your three votes, and at the same time one city such as Djakovo cannot be raised with projects for which construction permits have been issued neatly and for which the help of the relevant ministries is requested, there is not a single kuna. I'm talking about that kind of political discrimination.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62371	Mr. Representative Mile Horvat's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62372	So, dear colleague Vinkovic, I listened to you. I haven't said for a moment that 7,000 objects haven't been completed. I said there are 7,000 unsolved cases by appeal of dissatisfied persons. It's a fundamentally different thing. I'm talking about the so-called. The silence of the administration, or of the failure of the administration, of officials in the apparatus who should have solved these people's complaints to date, and the technical part of the renovation, is not a renewal that I didn't talk about, but we could talk about it, but it's not a topic right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62373	Replica, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62374	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Horvat, I see that you mention again the principle of the national key in personneling in some units of local administration and self-government, and that is actually true that it is the art and success of your party's negotiations with the ruling party whatever it is and whatever it was before and at these times. So congratulations on how you successfully negotiated this with the ruling, and you are also a member of the ruling coalition. Furthermore, no one here mentions the discrimination you spoke of, when it comes to national minorities, and their kind of rights, issues of Croats outside Croatia. It might be worth warning by the lawyers of the Croatian Ministry of Interior to harass thousands of Croats who do not have public documents, in which they could prove themselves or declare themselves to the Croats. This is also about many emigrated Croats and members of their families, and these are about 20 thousand according to certain statistics. No one is talking about them here today, and they represent me to say the interests, I am for everyone talking about their interests, but how is it that no one is talking about discrimination from our ministry, the Ministry of the Interior, Mr. of the State's Attorney's Office, take some steps to get Croats outside of Croatia, I say those who seek Croatian citizenship 20 thousand, because it stands for years in the drawers of the MUP. So the same thing should be spoken of as you demand and some of your rights, you should have your own requirements, which you do in a coalition with HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62375	Answer, Mr. Representative Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62376	I thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, an esteemed colleague, so I'm just going to go public with the facts for the sake of the truth. It is not about the employment of minorities, it is not about a coalition agreement within the coalition, it is simply about regulations, the principles established in the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, where it is clearly said that in competition for a particular workplace, where bidders with their offers of the same qualitative value appear, the advantage must be given to a member of the national minority if it calls for that right itself, so if it is called for. We have a number of cases where members of the Serb community have not called for this right, as they have passed, I don't know, but I'm telling you, it's not a coalition agreement, it's a political decision, it's a fundamental institute embedded in the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62377	Thank you. And finally last in the debate, Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62378	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. When we talk about this report, or about the occurrences of discrimination in 2009, as well as about every report of a similar nature, or nature, we must ask the question on which we show our satisfaction or dissatisfaction. And we also have to admit that we are mostly our own position, our own judgment based on our subjective experience, or on our subjective assessment. Of course I'll take over that cross subjective assessment and evaluation, and I can't be as objective as none of us here, and I'll talk about this report and from the section of the board that I'm headed, the Committee for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. But I would point out that the evaluation of anything, including this report should certainly be on the assessment of the situation, and all the elements I would say measurable and all of those activities that lead to improvement and if we analyze it and if we factor it out, if we are actually following it, then we can certainly be satisfied with this report, because it actually points to constant progress, respect, respect for human rights and all the rights that arise, and from the area that deals with this report. But also for objective evaluation, more objective evaluations of this report need I think another method is to introduce, and it is simple to compare it with someone. If we want to tell where we are, where we're going, where we want to be, we can't do it without being compared in a certain way. We can compare ourselves with those who are better than us in something, and we can compare ourselves with those who are in our environment and who also have certain obligations on the same basis. If we compare ourselves with others, I would say that if we compare ourselves with the most developed democracies in the European Union, I speak in countries, certain countries in the European Union, then we can certainly say when it comes to minority rights, the protection of the national minority in the Republic of Croatia, and on the basis of constitutional law that Croatia can implement the best protection, i.e. all the rights stemming from that law. It also makes us happy, which makes us right to ask the question of position, national minorities and Croatian national minorities in other countries, and in any case we cannot go beyond that to say in neighbouring Serbia, in a recent visit here, I heard literally that at the border of Serbia the textbooks for Croatian children are waiting for the Croatian language for up to half a year to cross the border. So regardless of these documents that are signed, they bring, and all these efforts to actually achieve in their own way a certain level of protection of human rights and the rights of a national minority, let's say that in Serbia, it is the same thing in some other countries, but I am using it as an example, we are not satisfied with that, and we need to conclude that. There we can freely say that we are far, far ahead of our neighbors. It's the same when it comes to returnees. So I know and understand that it should always be more and it can always be better and it is simply an effort for us all to achieve certain goals. But I can't help but look at the question of returnees in neighbouring BiH to Republika Srpska where only the right of housing is restored to people or to shelters, and that ends the return. Simply, neither Croatia nor the state it speaks of can be satisfied with this, nor the EU that views BiH as one of its future members with the situation. And of course we must be satisfied with the state that is in Croatia by giving right to all those who are trying to further improve and improve the situation. Also, we have to be aware of a phenomenon, and I have marked it here as discrimination, as a fight against discrimination. So it's not like there's a fight against discrimination for itself. I'm, I don't know if you've received or not, but I am on an e-mail, and in public too, I've read in the media how we've experienced that in Istria one person can't be a principal at Italian school, imagine because it's Croatian nationality. I mean with all due respect, respect for human rights, minority rights, and I don't know everything, constitutional law, this is actually an incomprehensible provision. Does that mean, I mean some kind of pandan crazy about something like that would be to ask if anyone can play for a Croatian national team who is not an ethnic Croat just for the reason that the team is called Croatia. So it's inadmissible and we need to correct it and we can't go over it. I would actually conclude my exposure to discrimination in the Republic of Croatia that it is at the level of those in European countries with which we really want to compare and where we want to be. And with the trend, it's a constant reduction at all levels. However, I will also conclude with this conclusion, this Assembly, and in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, should also know about the unprecedented case of discrimination on which the media is shaved and which is actually more than symbolic. And I'm talking about Cardinal Pulic's dissection. So in the neighbouring state of the building 110-year-old who owns the Supreme Archbishop, communists forced themselves into the premises of the archdiocese during Yugoslavia. So, in the possession of the bishop. They've never nationalized that space, but they've just taken possession of it. Over the years, the bishop and his men have actually in a certain way damaged many of these tenants, tenants who were forced to stay there, but one family could not be resolved. However, the issue has actually just been resolved right before the BiH aggression itself when a man who was moved to the bishop's court left space and left for Belgrade. It turns out that the man was a member of the UDBA, and he's been spying on the bishop from that space all along. And that's the only reason he couldn't even make a deal with him. And now you see, it's all acceptable for the time we've been living in, but it's absolutely unacceptable for the time we're in today. It's unacceptable at the time, but it's understandable because it was the way it was. We lived in the time we were in. And finally, after all, a family that I do not know further lays down the rights to this apartment has initiated proceedings in the Sarajevo court and the Sarajevo Municipal Court has made a decision that brings back the Bishop's court. The reactions to that are, I'd say, more than clear. The president of the Croatian Cultural Society of Progress, Mr. Topic, said it was worse than the mugging of communists. Even the Democratic Action Party supported the cardinal and said the cardinal was also responsible for maintaining BiH and preserving both its international subjectivity and recognition and reconciliation, etc. Citizens of Sarajevo are also against such a decision. I'd say all men of good faith. However, the laws under which the advantage of the tenant over ownership rights is passed and gives so much harm that BiH is such that, by such a decision, it actually denies its existence, its foundations. And in fact, if the 17th division of Cardinal Puljic happens then it will certainly be a sort of symbolic representation and Croats from BiH. And she's not in anyone's interest. It is not in the interest of either the Republic of Macedonia, nor the international community and the EU, but neither does BiH, because I repeat neither the people in Sarajevo, so regardless of the nationality, which has been surveyed and which have been discussed absolutely do not support such behaviour. Thank God Croatia is far from such a state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62379	Thank you. And we have on behalf of the SDP club a five-minute final hearing. Mr. Shime Luchin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62380	Thank you very much. When we talk about human rights, especially when we talk about fundamental human rights, so when we talk about the inequality of Croatian citizens either before the law, or in front of various bodies, I don't think this Parliament can be satisfied when it comes to one case, not when we have too many. A team before I'm convinced that in this report we've discussed so far, it's actually just the tip of the iceberg. Therefore, the SDP Club will accept this Report on the occurrences of discrimination, i.e. the anti-discrimination law, which was filed by the Ombudsman. And when it comes to the government's opinion on this report, the SDP club will take it into consideration. Why would he let him know? Because we believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is responsible for acting on the findings, part of the findings, which are listed in this report. Before considering that who are those who violate human rights, or who are those who discriminate? Well, most of all, the bodies of the state administration. To the most extent, judicial authorities, and then to the greatest extent local self-government units. And even when we take who they are, what are the areas that are being discriminated against. So, the area of justice and administration and the area of labour relations. So we plead to the government that this issue from this sphere, in the field of discrimination, cannot therefore be taken to the knowledge and cannot be established and cannot be justified. The government has to act, and until the government does, unfortunately, we will have discrimination. I would have warned so this is the first report after a year of functioning this law. I'm afraid that after two years, the situation will not be, or that the situation will be worse. As far as the idea and the defense counsel's proposal is concerned, it would be a good idea to look at this matter in a collected way, i.e. to sum up all the reports of all the lawyers and lawyers. I think it's acceptable for the SDP because that's how we're going to get the whole picture. However, I would suggest one more thing, and it should be taken care of. So there's also a certain normative space. I like to call it a edge that in a certain way generates or can generate discrimination. We also mentioned the law on access to information, the Law on Free Legal Assistance, and there was a lot of talk about the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. However, I would particularly warn of one law, which is the Law on Citizenship. I'll remind you this law was passed to me in '91. The last changes were made in '93. So, in 17 years, nothing has been done about getting citizenship, taking away citizenship and everything that the law treats. I would dare say that part of what we have had the opportunity to hear here about the problem of obtaining citizenship and members of national minorities, but there is also someone talking about the problem of Croats who cannot get the papers, that it is simply necessary to approach the studio and serious consideration of this law. So here's a suggestion maybe that in the next report, I hope, and before is actually suggested what would and what are all the legal solutions that should be changed. So, I end up saying once again, so the SDP club will support this report, that it will take note of the government's opinion because we do not expect the government to think but rather act. And I finally believe that you will vote for the proposal for a conclusion that the SDP has made regarding this item of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62381	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Jurica Malcic, Attorney General. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62382	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate, I would like to thank the representatives very much for contributing especially to useful proposals and suggestions that will help to improve our work, but also how to report to the Croatian Parliament on the occurrences of discrimination in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, I also took note and carefully read the government’s statement of the Republic of Croatia on the report, as well as the evaluations of those representatives who essentially repeated the allegations from that obvious. I agree with the estimates that the government has not actually given an opinion on the report, which I regret to conclude. I cannot help but notice that this opinion delivered to the Assembly is almost literally a copy of the evidence provided to the Government by two, three ministries and related to those parts of the reports, which include critical assessments of their work and phenomena in the areas covered. I have no knowledge of the possible debate that preceded the session of the government or of the decision-making process. However, earlier experience in regular annual reports suggests that the Government has rarely critically assessed the work of the State Administration's authority on evaluations, proposals and recommendations from the Ombudsman's report. If, afterwards, both the views and the conclusions of the Assembly, i.e. the deciding majority, are based on the indications and assessments which are in fact the evaluations of the administrative bodies whose work is followed and assessed by the Ombudsman, it indicates insufficient willingness to, of course, monitor and verify the executive or work of the administration authority thoroughly by applying the principle of division, which is not good. At the same time, it also makes it difficult for the staff of the Ombudsman who is the authority of the Croatian Parliament, whose effectiveness and success in achieving its constitutional role, apart from professional authority and public reputation, is essential and appropriate support from the Parliament. I can't help but notice that in the last two, three years since the reports have in some way been relativated and noted, that I have, unfortunately, indications that this too, compliance with the legal obligations of administrative bodies, ministries, etc. in some ways, they may be under the influence of such an attitude, and there are bigger problems than even before. As far as the contents of this report are concerned, I would like to believe that the government's statement and those evaluations of the debate suggest that the report should not be accepted or that it should be partially accepted do not deny and question our assessment of the existence of discrimination and that the assessments of inequality are. Therefore, the risk of discrimination and social exclusion is most exposed to minority groups. Here we have emphasized, of course, because of the historical and circumstances of the Serb minority, then for the known reasons of the Roma minority. It is partly smaller in terms of other minorities. But at all, minority members are, of course, the clearest, most vulnerable groups. It's not just in Croatia. It is in developed European countries. Therefore, there should be no doubt at all that we have to accept those assessments, that this is the key thing that we are fighting here against. And of course, as far as I know it is also the policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in all relations with the accession of the European Union, it is stressed. That's why it's kind of weird that that part isn't more supportive than it was in that obvious. Also, that's not where we mentioned it, but it's about other minorities. It's also sexual minorities. There are persons with disabilities, but there are also people who are increasingly the weakest assets that are most often victims of indirect discrimination. However, it is one area where these categories are often overlapped. And I think in the next report, we're going to put exactly the biggest, biggest emphasis on being there to say indirect discrimination. I also do not want to believe that those invited to oversee and evaluate the work of the administrative bodies do not stress this need for a significant improvement in the work of the administrative bodies, not only with the aim of removing the causes and actions leading to discrimination in their work, which the phenomenon has what is visible from the Report, but also their training to better protect victims of discrimination. I agree with the assessments that there is even more discrimination in our society than in the report, and I am, therefore, in the final notes and stressed that after the first year of application, it is even too soon for a more factually justified assessment of the degree and extent of discrimination. As a responsible constitutional institution in the report we have instructed only the data and evaluations for which we have found and we have confirmation in facts, documents and direct experience from the long-term work of institutions. Because you know that the Attorney General has not only been involved in discrimination since the law enters into force, but in his long-standing work. We believe that in the next reports we will be able to provide a full demonstration of the phenomenon of discrimination. And finally, with that in mind, I draw attention to the final point of the conclusion, which was also distracted in the debate, which is to point to the staff and material deficits of the Ombudsman. This issue is now particularly current, as it is in preparation for the budget for next year. A 52.4% limit has therefore been established by the occupier, so it is quite clear that in these projections of the Ministry of Finance, if any application occurs, we remain in some way without being able to improve our work more significantly in this area as well. In addition to the difficulties we have in the difficulty of carrying out our obligations, it should be said not only that the funds were provided for in law making and that they are foreseen in the government's programme for this fourth quarter, so for 500 thousand kuna for three newly employed, however, it obviously will not be achieved. But I would also say that strengthening the Ombudsman's Office is one of the criteria, i.e. the conditions for the conclusion of the negotiations for accession to the European Union, the strengthening of the offices is listed as one of the criteria for closing Chapter 23, Chapter 19 of the Social Policy and Employment, which has only been temporarily closed, also provided for the strengthening of administrative capacity in the area of combating discrimination. The European Union has repeatedly called on the Republic of Croatia to hold a conference on the accession of the European Union to Brussels to take the necessary measures to strengthen the position of the Ombudsman and it is also important to take this recommendation into account in the correlation with the 2009 Progress Report, which points out that full implementation of the law is threatened by insufficient funding. In that sense, I believe you have also received a proposal for the conclusion of the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities. My request and the proposal for the Assembly to be more active, i.e. its bodies, to be involved in the question of the budget of the Ombudsman, that this, as some earlier years ago, does not remain only really within the framework of the Ministry of Finance, which is then important to determine our position, and I do not think it is in any way the right place, or it is not competent to say that this should be a matter of Parliament's stronger influence on the budgets of such institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62383	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62384	Respecting the work of a civil defender, I have just said that since they began to adopt, that is, only to take note of these reports, that the situation may be worse. I say it is much worse, and here is one recommendation for your work to pay attention to the discrimination of disabled persons, especially in your next report. blind persons receiving 500 kuna per month as a compensation for blindness, and that fee is not enough to feed the guide dog.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62385	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We'll decide when the conditions are met. We are moving on to the 2009 Report on Discriminations of Discrimination, the applicant of the Ombudsman, the debate is closed. The Committee on Gender Equality has proposed to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: "A report on the occurrences of discrimination for 2009. a year." That's exactly what it means, what it's partially accepted, but it's partly not accepted. ... /The noise in the hall./... [[/Intruder: And what part?]] That's the conclusion and the proposal of the board, and we should guess what he meant, the board. I'm putting this motion to a vote, and there's nothing left for me. Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? Let's get involved and vote. Score. This proposal was adopted by a majority of votes, 63 for, 16 abstentions and 18 against. By adopting this conclusion, it is essential to vote on a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities and a proposal for a conclusion of the SDP Representatives Club which have proposed to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the report because we have accepted a partial report. The Committee on Gender Equality... Yes, here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62387	Dear President of the Parliament, I really do not have the opportunity to see the article now to call on it, but according to our Rules of Procedure, when several different conclusions on the same matter have been accepted by the one who was last adopted. Therefore, I ask you to give this conclusion of the SDP club to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62388	So I can put these other proposals to the vote, but this one's over. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And listen, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Club of Representatives of the SDP who proposed that the Croatian Parliament accept the report. These are proposals submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club for 2009 report on the outbreaks of discrimination sent to the Croatian Assembly by the Ombudsman. Here we have accepted a conclusion that says part of it. Now I don't know, here's the vote. Let's get involved and vote on the SDP proposal Well, here I was just saying, the report's being accepted, and there's a partial acceptance. [[/Intruder: What's the suggestion?]] So, here you go, get involved and vote. ... /The noise in the hall./... Score. This proposal has not been accepted. It voted 35, 7 abstentions and 64 against. The Committee on Gender Equality has proposed to the Croatian Assembly another conclusion, which reads: "It is up to the Ombudsman to give a full picture of the occurrences of discrimination in the next reports to the Croatian Parliament." I am voting this conclusion. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal was adopted by most votes, 83 votes in favour, 14 abstentions and nothing against. And we have another proposal for the conclusion of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, which we also voted in the budgetary process. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with providing, in the 2011 State budget, the necessary resources for the staff and material strengthening of the Office of the Ombudsman so that it can achieve its role as central bodies to implement the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. The funds are secured in the budget adopted, and it is unconditional to vote on this conclusion. Do you still agree? Yeah. This conclusion has been withdrawn. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62389	Your Honor, Mr. President, on behalf of the SDP Club... We brought it in an illegal way. [[You can't hear the phone.]] So, uh... Give you who they are... [[You can't hear the phone.]] Turn off their fingers. [[You can't hear the phone.]] On behalf of the SDP Club, I regret to conclude that, when voting, i.e. the adoption of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, you have violated the Constitution and our Rules of Procedure, and this Article 83, which states that the laws, organic laws which are being developed, the Constitution established human rights and fundamental freedoms, the electoral system, the organisation, and the way of the work of the state bodies, and the establishment and the demarcation of local and regional self-government are being brought by the majority of the votes of all MPs. So it is no doubt that the judicial authority is part of the state government, and it is equally apostrophe of our Rules of Procedure. So that law is here, for that law there were 76 MPs. One of yours wasn't jealous. He was brought in at 76. It took 77 votes. So we will write a constitutional suit, or a request for an assessment of the constitutionality, and thus 14 requests seem to me to contribute to this complaint and a half of the laws which have been passed in the Croatian Parliament over the past few years.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-05-0.u62390	So, you said that there was a need for half the majority of all the MPs, and we took that into consideration here, yes, and we voted as we voted. We can't change him. Therefore, if this is not a valid vote, then someone will find that it is not valid. Please, nice! You brought it up, we took it in notice, it's all been recorded and we're moving on. Ladies and gentlemen, as this has been a long time and arduous, there has been no pause, nor have the people been going out except for some, so I propose that we now take a break until 15.00 hours and continue with the session of the Parliament on the agenda Report on the course of the negotiations process of the Republic of Croatia-European Union during the Presidency of the Kingdom of Spain to the European Union during the period from 1 January to 30 June 2010. So, the resuming session is at 15.00 hours with this agenda point. Madam Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development convened a session at 14 a.m. today, 10 November at Janka Draskovic's Hall (202). Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we move to - - The 2009 report on the work of the State's attorneys: The State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia submitted an annual report on the work in accordance with the provisions of Article 3. Law on State's Attorney's Office. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Gender Equality and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. The government delivered an opinion. Would the proposing representatives like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State's attorney, Mr. Mladen Bajic. Here you go.
