ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50540	I wish you all a good morning and we will begin today's meeting of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to inform parliamentary representatives, and in particular call the clubs at 11 o'clock and 45 minutes we will interrupt the session, to prepare the hall, and at 12 o'clock there will be a memorial for the late Stjepan Radić, a member of the parliamentary representative and vice president of the Croatian Parliament in one term, so I ask the clubs to ensure that he is in the hall as many representatives as possible. And now we move to agenda, item 2 of the agenda, that is - - The proposal for a decision to set up an investigation committee to determine the facts regarding the conclusion of the first amendment and the addition of the agreement on mutual relations relating to INA-Industry Oil d.d. companies. and the main gas business contract with the strategic partner MOL Hungarian Oil and Gas PLC – Proposer: The SDP representative club is the Proposer of 22 MPs, members of the SDP Club. The proposal for a decision is submitted on the basis of Articles 5 and 6. The law on investigative committees. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50541	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few sentences, which are why the SDP proposes to set up an investigative committee and to briefly explain which would be part of the work of the investigating committee, which, within what time period, the commission should be dealt with. So, as you yourself said, the SDP proposes to set up an investigative commission related to the determination of facts relating to the conclusion of the first amendment and the completion of the agreement on mutual relations with INA-industry between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the MOL, as well as the main gas business agreement with the strategic partner MOL. What are we proposing this for? I think the entire Croatian public, and we don't need to explain too much here. INA would say a company that was a national pride, the largest Croatian company, which in 2008 alone had a turnover of 26 billion kuna, means almost, or slightly more than 8% of total GDP. On the other hand, it employs 10,000, about 10,000 employees with its suppliers, employs over 50,000 people, has a major role and influence on the social status of Croatian citizens because energy is one of the fundamental branches that each country needs to worry about, in some ways, is the strategic interest of each country to protect energy, i.e. its citizens and its economy with safe supply, quality supply of energy and other derivatives that go from it. After what we saw and after we learned that the privatisation of INA took place during 2008, 2007, 2008, that is, when these documents that we have now talked about became public, we have concluded that it is necessary to establish an investigative commission because of what responsible parliaments in these situations in the world, and even in Croatia should open these topics. Some of the illogicalities that occur absolutely need to be examined, especially what I said energy is a public interest, INA is a company that unfortunately for 6, 7 years stands, after the first round of privatisation investment did not go with the dynamics that were supposed to go and normally that the commission should see if the public interest, whether Croatian citizens are protected or whether the public interest is protected. It's good to remind you that all the expensive INA privatisation story is on its way. In 2002, the Parliament passed the INA Privatisation Act, a public tender was held in 2003, an international public tender in which 25% of the shares were sold, plus one of the INA shares to a strategic investor. I have to point out that the public tender was made by two bidders and at that point the one who made the more favourable offer was chosen and for 505 million dollars 25 plus one of the INA shares was sold. In the conclusion of a contract with a strategic one, the first agreement with a strategic investor was defined by dynamics, investments and the way INA should develop and become a large Central European regional company, where it would be competitive with these investments, increase its production in a way that could also place a certain part of the product on neighbouring countries, and become more competitive than it had been before. It was big investments that were supposed to be made I've said over the past six years, but unfortunately they haven't. Further information that is crucial in the privatisation of INA was in 2005 when the government passed on 7% of the shares to the Croatian Defence Fund under the law, and in 2006 it was implemented... where 17% of shares are sold to Croatian citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the moment, in 2007, even at that moment, Croatia means the Government of the Republic of Croatia through its shares and through the Croatian Defence Fund, since the Croatian Defence Fund was then also chaired by Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor and the people who were proposed by the authorities, it also had influence over these shares. So, at this point, Croatia still has over 50% of INA shares. In 2008, given that it has been 5 years since the first contract was concluded, it was necessary to join the second conclusion of the negotiations and MOL at that time offered to Croatian citizens and all interested parties to buy their shares, and made a public offer to take over the INA and in the process until 1 October, until it was worth the offer, to collect 47%, something over 47% of the shares. At that point, Croatia had 44% shares, i.e. only 2.3% of shares less than it had MOL. So, you could say almost equal partners by ownership ratio. MOL only 2.3% more shares than INA had. At that point, the Government decides to conclude a new contract and in 2009 at the 67th meeting of the Government on 29.01., the Government shall decide to give consent to contracts with the strategic partner MOL, namely this first amendment and the addition of the contract, and on this second gas business contract where new relations and the takeover of the gas business from the INA are defined. What, and this is evident from these changes in the contract, is that MOL, I said with only 2.3% more shares, has almost 100% management rights, or manages the company as if it owns a much larger share than it is. On the other hand, the gas business, which includes the sale of gas warehouses "About" and that is to say, the purchase of the INA gas storage plant "About" defines that Croatia will take over the gas business and, in some ways, the burden of spending next year until the price of gas is brought into line with the market so that it will not be an excessive blow to Croatian citizens. In this way, Croatia takes over, according to some estimates, almost 4 billion kunas which should not have been taken over, that is to say, that it had to agree with INA how to divide and in some way how that cost should not be taken over entirely on the Croatian side, that is, through the Croatian budget to taxpayers. The aim of this Commission's research is, and the questions that the commission needs to examine, why are MOL's first days more management rights than usual for strategic partners who share roughly the same share in a company? Why does MOL have more management rights than what makes the difference between Croatia and MOL? Only 2.3% of more MOL shares have absolute control over the Croatian company, i.e. over a company with 26 billion kuna or 8% of Croatian GDP. The second question is, why isn't there another company involved in the privatisation process? They were also interested in the fact that the Croatian government did not, and as the information suggests, and was not satisfied, although it was somewhat contradictory since it had been in control of management for 6 years, it was not satisfied with the dynamics of investment in INU, which in that case did not include another company, or two or three that could be reported to buy and take INA shares and thus increase the value of these shares, make the race more competitive and ultimately make it a greater benefit for shareholders and Croatian citizens. We will remember that time when in 2008 and the day of the offer of MOL, another company that was interested in the beginning of the first privatisation of OMV, which was interested in the Croatian government selling these 19% shares that had more than 25 plus 1 shares, which should remain in Croatian ownership forever in order to protect Croatian interest. To put them on the market, to create a competition and possibly another company, in this case OMV is involved in the entire privatisation. And in this situation, very likely also small shareholders and the Croatian Defence Fund would get a much higher price for INA shares than they got. So there's also a question to be answered about why it wasn't a privatisation that she could do at that point in time in the way that someone else hasn't done it yet. Especially since there was no obligation or prior contracts between the MOL and the Croatian government to continue privatising the condition that this goes into the ownership of the MOL, i.e. to be privatised in the direction of the MOL of the shares held by the Croatian government. So there was no guarantee to MOL that he would take over the INA completely, but the government decided to do so, or not to go further into privatisation, not to look for any other strategic partner. Of course, there is always a statement made through the public by former Prime Minister Sanader, who was in some way aimed at selling INA to MOL. On the other hand, information that's also crucial. Who was all involved in the negotiation process on this treaty amendment, in particular on management rights. Members of the commission, although they are known, but the information to the public is not presented via the government portal as other decisions. And on the other hand, the consultants involved in the whole business. I cannot believe that now, according to media statements, the only vice president Polancec has negotiated with the Croatian side. He probably had consultants, probably some other members and the government and the ministries participated in the negotiations. It is necessary to see which consultants and for whose interest they negotiated when agreeing on a new agreement with a strategic partner. Next question, why did the government accept taking over the gas business? For what? MOL when he invested in the company, when he bought the shares, especially because those shares were bought before the gas business contract was negotiated, he knew what he was buying. Why did we now go in favour of INA and take over a gas business that will cost Croatian citizens through the budget for the next 3.4 years about 4 billion kuna? Is there any explanation that can be given, or can anyone explain it to Croatian citizens? And that's the task of absolutely this committee to determine. On the other hand, what made the gas business sell the gas storage facility around, or bought, excuse me, purchased the warehouse "Circumstance"? Instead of providing gas supplies in a way that builds a new warehouse, if PLINACRO builds a new warehouse, we decided to buy a warehouse from the INA again in this case after privatisation in the majority, i.e. large majority of ownership of MOL, which may not be so much needed for us, instead of building a new warehouse in the area of MOL, or INA can't take it from Croatia, it would remain there in the service of Croatian citizens. And that's the question that needs to be clarified. What was that for? Now that we have bought, we have no money to build a new warehouse, and on the other hand, solutions are offered to join the Hungarian supply system so that Croatia has some energy security so that what happened last year when we ran out of gas. On the other hand, whether there are other transactions related to the conclusion of the contracts mentioned in this Act, whether there have been specific benefits to MOL throughout the procedure, whether in this case the protected interests and assets of the Republic of Croatia, whether because of any irregularities damaged the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, whether the participants of this procedure, unfortunately, we still do not know who they are, whether they have made incorrect or incomplete statements about this procedure, have reported those relevant institutions of the Republic of Croatia to the Government, the Assembly on how the privatisation of INA is going and all other relevant facts relating to this privatisation. We absolutely believe that one more thing has to be reconsidered, which is why the dynamics of investment in INA all these years have not gone the way it was agreed with the first contract, and certain commitments have been made, even the dynamics of works, it has been taken over that even the Croatian Parliament has to report how the INA is developing, whether it is invested as agreed with a strategic partner, that at the end of this moment the INA is no longer a company that could be. I will remind you of INA in 2000, 99 and 98 was when it was combined with MOL a much larger company, but unfortunately, since the dynamics of investment in INA had stopped, and in 6 years the government could and had to control how this story was going, it did not happen and today we have a situation that INA produces quite unquality fuel that we have to move around year by year from when we will apply strict European rules because otherwise INA would not be able to sell fuel in Croatia that it now produces in its refineries. Unfortunately, for six years, the investment cycle in INA has stopped, and it must also be responsible for which, unfortunately, this has not continued as planned. I would like to say one more thing, INA said the pride of the Croatian economy, at least it was, unfortunately now in a difficult situation, we see both in 2008 and the loss of a billion kuna that has been achieved, investments that have not been made, reminds us of another company that also had a great chance in privatization to become a leader in the region, become a much larger company than it is today. It's about Pliva. It is inevitable that between these two cases some parallels and the interest of the SDP and the interest of this investigation committee should be that INA does not become what Pliva is today. A totally sold-out company that sold its resources, research center, and became a generic drug factory. From a regional leader, from a knowledge company that placed new products on the market to a generic drug factory. We are afraid that unfortunately INA is going in this direction to become only a wholesale of fuel, and not produced in the Croatian refineries but in some others, and that is what needs to be prevented and that is what needs to be protected, and that is what the Croatian Parliament as a responsible parliament must do and must see if it goes in that direction, and if it goes to prevent it. One more thing I would say, and we heard yesterday the position of the club or HDZ representative that this request is expanding, the absolute SDP advocate club has nothing to do with it, we believe that if it is necessary to explain to the Croatian public everything that is relevant with the privatisation of the INA and give all the answers that the Croatian public is interested in, unfortunately, if any problems have been waiting for 7 years with this, and now that this commission is established when it is necessary to give answers to some more questions. I'll remind INA's in 2002 set off for privatisation, in 2003 for 505 million dollars, and now I'm going to give you one company was sold at a public international competition between several bidders. DA is the current situation in the capital market that 505 million kuna was then around 3.3 billion, 505 million dollars, 303.3 billion kuna, which means that the average share was then worth 1320 kuna, meaning in 2003. Crobex was twice as small at that point as it is now, so if we moved that value from 2003 to today, the stock would be worth 2600, 2700 kuna, now on the stock market with today's day worth 1700 kuna, which suggests that it was gained 30%, up to 40% more than it would be today if it were sold on the capital market. So a public tender, an international one that led to the sale of the INA stock by 40% more value than it would have been in the capital market today. So one straight job, a good job, and normally, the SDP's club has absolutely no problem discussing it, and we welcome that you have proposed to accept this commission and to include it in the work of the commission. Finally, responsible parliaments around the world must discuss such topics in Croatia as well. When there is a suspicion of irregularities, when there is a suspicion that it is not a protected public interest, every country's parliament must make a decision to make an investigative commission, to tell its citizens what was going on and whether the public interest was protected. On the other hand, we have seen from practice, the investigative committees have produced different results, but the last investigative committee has led to the opening of the investigation and, ultimately, to sanction certain or sanction if the attorney's office succeeds in its intention in the court of people who have concluded certain matters on behalf of Croatia. We also want to say here, that the Croatian interest should be protected, should any irregularities be told to Croatian citizens, and even if it is found that the conclusion of a contract between strategic partners and the addition of a contract between strategic partners has occurred in a non-transparent and illegal way, it should be done to change, so if it should be broken up to protect Croatia, in order to protect our company and our citizens. And that is why I expect all of the clubs in the Croatian Parliament to support the establishment of this commission in order to somehow come to the truth about what was going on around the INA, which is why INA is going in the direction it should go instead of becoming a regional leader it is heading towards becoming a small company that will sell fuel and derivatives, unfortunately not made in its refineries, but in refineries in other countries and other companies. I said I would not want INA to become Pliva although many indications say that it is going in this direction and I would not want it to be paraphrased that Pliva was sold with the sounds of arias from Verona, I would not want INA to be privatised, sold and reduced to the lowest branches along with the charmer’s whistle and possibly some of the agreements that were far from the public’s eyes in Croatia and from Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50542	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations, the first is the distinguished representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50543	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. In seeking full truth about everything that happened during the privatisation process of INA from 2002 to today, we need accurate allegations. And in this context, I will correct the next incorrect quote of the esteemed representative Maras, who said at the beginning of his debate, that two companies applied to the international public tender. That's not true. Three companies, MOL, OMV and... This should be taken into account and I think it is also a contribution to the quality of the debates we will have in the future during the work of our investigation committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50544	Thank you. A second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50545	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So esteemed colleague Maras said there were no restrictions on introducing another strategic investor for the remaining 19% of shares owned by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, such as the other strategic investor. OMV. However, by virtue of a contract in the mutual relations of shareholders relating to the INA oil industry signed on 17 July 2003, Article 9(1) still has such restrictions. He says: "If the Government gives its approval at any time to any investor other than a strategic investor for the acquisition of more than 10% of INA’s share capital, in accordance with Article 10(4). The privatisation law will also be granted to a strategic investor under the same conditions." This is a commitment by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the strategic investor MOL. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50546	Thank you. We're moving on to a club debate. Now it's the club's turn, the club debate is the first IDS club to be a respected representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50547	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. There's no one from the government maybe they should be here too, gentlemen. Now, according to these replicas, I can see that they've all armed themselves with a series of data, and that's certainly going to be good, and that's certainly useful for this debate. Why? Because the public needs to know the full truth, not just about privatising INA, there's no need to cover up anything higher than our future. The public also needs to know the full truth, and here with famous fire trucks and court documents from Washington we learn in September 2002 IM Metal paid 200 thousand to German marks, some officials in November 2002. ETF paid 250 thousand euros and IM Metal as a reward for Croatian MUP contracts. In December 2004, we move on, the ETF paid 57,000 dollars, then 174,000 euros and 217,000 euros in 2006. One word between 2002 and 2008, Daimler paid ETF about three million euros, IM did not get a job selling fire trucks etc. So one beautiful continuity of different political structures. So I said the public needs to know the full truth about privatizing INA. If it doesn't go differently, then this investigation committee is welcome. And because as we had the chance to listen yesterday there will be no one who will be against it. But my impression is that I agree that responsibility is not only on one government. Why? The privatisation of INA began in 2002. In 2002, I also sat here in Parliament with Kramaric, although we were not in the coalition at the time, we voted against the sale of INA. I personally believe that it was already a mistake because we sold 25% of the shares of INA. It is not important now and we gave 50% of the management rights. The error was also normal for any further privatisation of the INA, which was carried out after 2003 by the next governments. Why am I saying it was a mistake? 1990. INA was that we all know giants. 1990. INA could also buy MOL and OMV and LUKOIL together, and today we saw it became a hunt. INA, I don't know if maybe I'm wrong in some way in that financial sense in one good part of the war. Is that a bit of a trafficker with the aggressor, which we're going to do so time, is that it was embarrassing, but for that period it was perfectly normal. Those who called it the work, they were scolded, they were persecuted, they were challenged. But no matter what, I'm thinking again, and those who did it have a clear fortune. But no matter what, it wasn't supposed to sell to INA. On the other hand, we see that since the war, how many, 15 years have passed since international isolation for 18 years. Well, that's half a working century. And then a man asks himself the question of what we as a nation have done as a state in those 15 years. Okay, we've defended the country and we've defended everyone who's been involved in this primarily who gave the victim for the defense. He needs to build a monument to the sky. But on the other hand, let's take a look at that period, I haven't called anyone since '45. '90s. In fact, 50 to 80, in those 30 years when the country's industrial base was laid, when everyone who could work or get to work, hospitals, schools were built, schools are doing well today, roads, tourist facilities. Everyone was more or less employed, I said, and there was this energy base, it was created in that period, and the INA that was certainly said to be perhaps the largest company then in Eastern Europe. Since '95. To date, apart from privatisation, the sale should be fair, mention 500, 550 kilometers of highway, we privatized everything, we alienated everything, and the best example of deprivatisation in Croatian is perhaps INA. All right, I.A., I guess some of them made some money. Who earned it? First of all, I mean the citizens of Croatia who sold those packages, the shares, it was 2006, 2007. It was a model that perhaps someone's INA might be able to give it to them, and it certainly came well to those who designed it for the 2007 elections. But what's important, the Croatian state will never own again I'm afraid of such a system as INA. It is good that we have not yet privatised Croatia's electricity industry, although I am afraid according to some announcements that this electricity industry is not well written, because it should start privatisation there, it should start in 2014. On the other hand, we see shipbuilding on the extremity, the pride of the Croatian industry once, ironworks, cement mills in this country are closing down. Our hotels are devastated, and it's fortunate that some private companies have opened up, but all together it's extremely small and that's what hurts us. And now there's another question about the revision of the transformation itself. It is certainly one thing that successful companies will not be audited, as much as they have amorally clearly acquired these companies will be chosen failed, but also successful and unsuccessful I will not say that they were thieves but were especially Maheri when it comes to conversion. And if we now install the provisions of non-depreciation obsolete by turning into a constitution, and we do nothing after that, and I'm sure we won't just confirm who the pit is, jamio. Now why am I saying this? Who can review today's conversion, privatization of the INA? I claim no one. Well, the Hungarians bought it, so the foreigners did. From whom they bought it, they bought it from the government, I suppose, in good faith. Who can challenge that? I'm afraid no one, unless it's been determined that in the background of such privatisation there was a crime, let's see if someone put something higher than that in their pocket. That should sort of be the point of this investigation committee. Whether it was a condition, maybe I'll talk about it a little later because the same people appear here and there, means whether it was a condition to privatize to the INA so that Podravka managers would take over Podravka, that's also important. Of course it's important for an ordinary citizen why INA is selling us unskilled gasoline. On the other hand, as INA asked Mr. Maras, from what she had promised to realize, did she modernise the Sisak refinery,.../The speaker did not understand./... ie. River. What it does with the gas business, why today we only allow one company to say almost absolute monopoly, and that must have happened after they bought 20 and some of those Tifon gas stations. The question arises why, together with INA, we privatized some other monopolies such as T-HT, such as banks, such as Dugan, as mentioned earlier in Pliva. How many mines, oil reserves, gas was transferred by the sale of INA to MOL. It took us two years for INA to pay the state's obligations, and on the other hand we allowed INA's monopoly. What would happen is that some small merchant, some small craftsman, some small entrepreneur doesn't pay two, three months of his obligation, and the same hour he'd be blocked. Why was INA spared in all this? Why did the people who privatised INA on behalf of the Croatian State or at the expense of the Croatian State eventually become its directors and act as the new owner's company for a decade. The same thing is with T-HT, the same thing is with a number of other banks that people who were doing privatisation on behalf of the Croatian state eventually continued to be the new owner of the company, so man asks himself the question of who they actually served. Whether they were serving a new foreigner or serving a Croatian state at the beginning. These are questions to be answered. There can be nothing here that is said to be strange, and on the other hand we see that these people from these companies today become pillars of society, become advisors to the government, advisors to the president, and somehow our Parliament is to blame for everything. The truth is that maybe, not perhaps, but surely we've raised our hands for those laws, for those conversions of privatisation, but the real machines of converting privatisation sit on the other side of this square. On the other hand, we see the media, when it comes to these companies, they tend to shut up. Why are they silent? Because the biggest sponsorships, advertising come from them, from INA, MOL, banks, Tobacco, etc. Those who speak are being mocked by these very media, and the thing is clear, that Croatia is on its own after these shameful privatisations, especially the monopoly, I would almost dare say "no sovereignty". Because sovereignty isn't just an army that listens to NATO generals, okay, or the police or the Parliament, who listens to everything Europe suggests, but sovereignty implies that you have a strong oil company, you have a strong telecommunications company, you have your own banks, we have our shipyards, we have full employment, and we're on the best track to remain without all of it, to be in some way only obedient slavery and to depend on other people's money, about 45 billion euros of external debt, which will soon grow to 60 billion or I don't know how much etc., etc. And then we wonder why it's the first day of the Vrdoljakova Tito, for example. They watched 800,000 people, because people still remember the man who did a lot of bad things, to start with these, but certainly a lot of good because he made it possible for people in these places to be on their own for as long as they were themselves, and the question is, when will it happen again? And we, I repeat, will once again say, have sold all the monopolies. We sold all the monopolies, sold the oil industry. We have sold or sold Croatia to the electricity industry in 2014, the Tobacco Monopolies, we have privatized banks, ironworks, etc. And I think we should talk about that, too. Yesterday I read, last night or this morning worth an interesting text by Mr. Gojko Slicker from Vecernjak, he will not be offended if I paraphrase or quote it and the question arises why the same people always appear around INA and around Podravka. And so it was then in 2002 and so it is today in 2010. However, once again, the point is that we are left without an economic substrate in some way, our future depends on it, that is the point, without leading Croatian companies and Croatia will not be what our citizens dreamed of, we sell the soul and it is actually bad and the people are interested and it should be recognised as clearing. It doesn't matter to him, I'm talking about the people now whether it's a 2002, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, whether it's an IDS, HDZ, SDP or HNS. The people are against politics. Don't touch me, so I don't want you, and I absolutely need to open it all up, but the bodies of the judicial authorities can't clearly, just don't, they can't plant it. All right, let's get out of here. Now, let's go and get those Mercedes trucks, let's go absolutely everything that's been going on over the past 10 or 15, or since the 1990s it's just been working here. I want every happiness clear to this committee. If the court gets a job, then by law we'll stop working on the same thing. A man's mistake can be accepted. Crime must not simply be forgiven. I will once again say that anyone can make the wrong business decision but must not take for himself and his own any kuna, nor please anyone. When dealing with billions of kunas and the budget is exactly that 100 billion, clearly there can always be some mistake somewhere, but once again I'm going to say no one can take anything for themselves. And finally, it's clear that the people want everything clear from the origin of the state here for injustice. We've brought down one country, this one needs to be defended with honesty.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50548	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50549	Thank you. Here, first of all, if we're talking about the tanks and trucks mentioned earlier, it's incorrect that that's all that's been going on here. It is true that an investigation is being carried out into the purchase of fire tanks supplied by the Istrian County, so let's be correct. That's one thing. Another correction if we're talking about Tito making a good one here, a lot of it's good, because of him I think we have almost a million less people with descendants at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50550	There's a lot of research to do in Istria, but Istra didn't buy Mercedes trucks. So, on that basis, they're not... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50551	I'd like to ask you to discuss this outside in the hallway. It is up to the distinguished representative Boris Kunst on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50552	Dear Vice President, fellow MPs. At first, I would like to emphasise what we have already been able to hear from our colleagues from the SDP that the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the proposal to set up an investigation committee to determine the facts regarding the conclusion of the INA Interrelationship Agreement and the strategic partner MOL. The Croatian Democratic Community Club believes that in any case we will get more quality when we complete this proposal with questions about obtaining MOL's management rights in relation to the ownership stake in INA. It is certain that the aim of the Commission's work must be to identify all the circumstances and facts of the privatisation of INA, as well as all the circumstances and facts related to all the contracts signed between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the strategic investor of MOL, not just certain contracts as proposed by the SDP. INA is safe and I agree with Agent Caine who was here in 2002 was Croatian giant and sure that it is inappropriate to compare the value of the 2002 shares with today. I think it's inappropriate because let's remind ourselves that in 2002 INA hired 17,000 workers. It had 450 retail places in the country and abroad, and after financial restructuring it showed a profit of HRK 350 million. Since the privatisation of the INA is the primary political issue, the Croatian government had to take care of strategic positions in the INA in the period 2000 to 2003 because of the future of the Croatian economy. do not allow a strategic investor to have a significant impact on the management of the company. By selling the management stake of 25% plus one share to the strategic partner, time has shown that, unfortunately, in Croatia's future, this privatisation has not brought new jobs and not that growth and development that would certainly be desirable to the macroeconomic policy of the Republic of Croatia. In the 2003 contract, when the state had 75% shares and MOL had two out of seven board members and two out of six board members with 25% shares. However, the business plan and its amendments could not have been adopted without the consent of at least one MOL representative. So when Agent Cain said 50% was basically voting rights that was not true, there was far more MOL had influence in these management rights than 50%. I wish it was 50%. It was weird at the time, but it was like that. At that time they began to recall the initial conflicts of the INA administration and the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the time, which clearly showed that there was actually no clear picture of the positioning of the Croatian oil company on the European oil market and that this technique sold the first quarter of the shares to the strategic partner proved to be the wrong move by the then government or the wrong way. Although individual representatives of the government at the time publicly expressed their satisfaction with a list of 10 bids to buy 25% plus one share in the INA. The fact is that this interest was less demonstrated by second-rate European oil processors whose primary interest then was to assume INA market positions rather than to invest in INA processing capacity. It should not be ignored that the then Ivica Racan government was left behind when it decided at a closed session on 21 July 2002 to elect a company or MOL as a strategic partner of the INA. I will also remind my colleagues from the SDP that such a decision by the government in resignation was not made unanimously then, that it was then that the deputy prime minister warned that the government in resignation should not make such a significant decision. From what I have said so far, it is clear that it is safe to expand the work of the Research Commission in order to determine the facts that for a number of years certainly cause suspicion and confuse the public how that someone who has a 25% stake in INA plus one share has a greater and crucial influence in making decisions than the majority owner at the time, which was the state. Something amazing that at that time most owners would give up their significant influence with 75% compared to another company that has 25%. So the logical question is whether there is some other agreement, whether there is some secret agreement with MOL hidden from the public when the members of the management board and the supervisory board of INA specifically received such a position that gives them greater management rights than the majority owner. the countries of Croatia. I therefore further emphasise, and particularly for the sake of the exceptional public interest, the full insight into the privatisation process of the INA and contractual relations between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the MOL, and in particular because of the fact that the agreement on the purchase of shares and the agreement on the mutual relations between shareholders since 17 July 2003, a strategic investor has acquired management rights over INA and a legal and factually disproportionate ownership share, i.e. he acquired significantly greater management rights than would naturally result from acquired equity. From what we're seeing, there's got to be a lot of work to do for the Bureau of Investigation. So I don't see what she's bileing on today from the very side she picked out MOL as a strategic partner. Why is he bile today against the suddenly elected choice that was made back in 2002? And otherwise, when we talk about counselors, etc. I'll remind you that almost then, the government almost rented a whole London quarter to advise them, you want from restructuring, privatization to PR business that led to the 2000/2003 government at the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50553	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. It is Honorable Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50554	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, my colleague Kunst has made several incorrect allegations. I'll fix two. You said that the move to sell to a strategic partner did not ensure economic growth. I must remind you what you yourself said, that during that period INA was doing business with profit and that economic growth in 2003 was a record economic growth in Europe that Croatia had achieved. You also said that the contract had been awarded by the majority management rights to the strategic partner. That's not true. A strategic partner may have had a slightly greater right than the number of shares, but no greater rights than the majority owner of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50555	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50556	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just a few things after the presentations of clubs that have been imposed, IDS and HDZ, and it is important to remain clear. I said SDP has no reason to refuse anything. We accept this to expand with the first contract. No more contracts, but only one other contract concluded by the then government after the privatisation of the INA and should be formulated and put into motion and voted. I'd like to give my answer immediately, given Mr. Kunst's voiced his question, suspect there may be other contracts. No, there are no secret contracts. Because when you're doing an international tender when more bidders can come forward, when you sell the company, and I said by comparison now and what happened in 2003 by 40% more than you would get today to sell on the capital market. So 40% more then the government got the values and money for the shares it sold to the strategic partner. When you get a partner who commits to the company, he invests his money and says we'll modernise two refineries. It will be investments that will be launched by the Croatian economy. When you get a partner like that, you normally think it was a good job. The company said it well, Mr. Kunst, because in 2002, she was in a much better situation than it is today. But gentlemen, who's been in a position to manage the INA for the last six years, so it's not the SDP? He didn't name SDP the INA Administration from 2004 to 2010, did he? I don't suppose the SDP had a representative as chairman of the Supervisory Board from 2004 to 2010. Well, we can't transfer responsibility for the INA from ourselves, and we've managed the entire system for six years when nothing has been invested in the INA has. And there should be honesty and say that because there was no investment today INA is not in a situation like it was in 2003. On the other hand, in 2000, counterpart Kunst said in the contract it was defined that a strategic partner, but beware that a strategic partner is doing so if he already invests some money, so he must also have some participation in rights. Two out of seven in the Supervisory Board and two out of six in the administration. These rights you're talking about, Mr. Kunst, are about rights that are called reserved issues and only talk about the most strategic issues within the company. There's no talking about running the company. Croatia has had management of INA in its hands for all six years. On the other hand, the investments were defined by the agreement on how it would go, so there was no possibility that management would then say that we would not invest, if they already signed it in the first contract. So don't say MOL could have made investments. No, MOL could not stop investment, investments were made by those who had been irresponsiblely managing the company for 6 years and therefore INA is not in a position as it was in 2003. And that's the paradox of this whole story, you're saying that it was a giant then, and in 2010, it was a dwarf. And who's responsible for being a dwarf? The one who managed INA for 6 years, which was certainly not an SDP and, if necessary, the commission should give its answer. And now another thing, counterpart Maric said that it was necessary to ask MOL about whether someone else could come in and offer something for these 19% shares that I was talking about and that someone could still enter as a potential investor and a strategic partner. True, what my colleague Maric read is true, but it only suggests the right of the first buy. Perhaps if OMV or someone else had offered more money, perhaps MOL would not have agreed to buy those shares, then perhaps it could be sold to another strategic partner. That's what this is about. The law of the first purchase does not speak or suggest in whose direction further privatisation should go, but only if the one who has already invested wants under these same conditions as someone else offered to buy shares so that he can. So there could be absolutely no thesis that someone else could have been included in the privatisation of INA that it was wanted, but I did not publicly announce that MOL was a strategic and good partner after the meeting in Budapest, but it was former Prime Minister Sanader long before it expired 5 years after the first contract, and long before MOL even offered a public offer for shares to Croatian citizens. So there's already been an indication that things have worked out. And now around the rights of this amended, it means the first changes and additions of the contract. What, which is why we're doing 50, 75% right here. I want to tell the Croatian public, and I think it is important to know that MOL, or a strategic partner, has the ability to manage the INA with only 2.3% more shares to appoint management of 3 of its members of Croatia 3, but on all issues has the right to the president of the administration, but on all issues if there are no restrictions other than these strategic issues defined as state management issues of the INA, the voice of the President of the Administration, or the Hungarian representative, on all issues of the operational management of the company, about the appointment of the lower manager, executive directors, etc. On the other hand, in the supervisory board of nine members, Croatia has the right to the 3, Hungarian side to the 5th, the automatic majority, only 2% more shares of the automatic majority in the supervisory board. So again more rights than that should belong to someone by the ratio of shares. But now another piece of information that's fascinating. For state issues, I have said those questions that define where, without consensus on the supervisory board, there are no decisions to make, but this issue includes that the strategic partner, i.e. in this case the administration, since the strategic partner has a crucial voice in the management can have property, sell up to 10% of the consolidated value of long-term assets in one financial year. So someone can sell 10% of the assets without consensus on the supervisory board, it's about 2 and a half billion kuna, without having a consensus on the Croatian side, they can do it. In 10 years, they can theoretically sell out the entire company, and Croatia doesn't have to say anything, it can say okay, we can't, we've defined by contract, you have the right to do it. Every year 10% of the value can be sold out by INA, and in 10 years, INA doesn't have to be, and Croatia can't do anything about it. And, of course, that's why we're looking for a debate about these modified contracts, and that's why someone let it happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50557	We have three corrections of incorrect allegations. First is the distinguished representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50558	Well, here's colleague Maras, for the second time, incorrectly comparing... the price of shares in 2003 and today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2003, shares were sold with management rights and, of course, they were more expensive. Today, shares would have been considerably cheaper if the SDP had remained in power, because it destroyed, say, INA's transport, completely and handed in the hands of the transport of derivatives to the selected privates, because it affected one of the Rijeka companies and destroyed a whole series of small companies of pump owners. So the devastation of reputation at that short time led to the fact that INA had lost its reputation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50559	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50560	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, an esteemed colleague, Maras, said the Government of the Republic of Croatia sold it in 2003. 25% plus one share by 40% more than you'd get today to sell, about like that. This is not true, because it is not possible to observe the trend in the price on the capital market of individual shares from the shares package. We would get the truth if today MOL had opened its shares and its position with a public tender to sell and how much we would get for it then we would know the price of those shares, and my assessment that MOL today is selling it to the Russians or someone else would get between a billion and a half dollars and $2 billion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50561	Thank you. And the correction of an incorrect quote by distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50562	Thank you very much. My colleague Maras has made several incorrect allegations, but I will only make two correct. First of all, it is not true that HDZ has managed INA for the past six, seven years, managed by HNS, and the HNS has a president there, not HDZ. That's the first one. Secondly, what you said was that no one interfered with INA management and could have managed the INA, so I think you're a smart man, that you don't need to talk about it. Well, look, you know so much that if the company can't come up with a business plan, or change of business plan without the consent of one representative from the supervisory board or the board, it's Hungarian, then it's veto and you can't normally manage the firm, so it's clear to everyone, and to a small child, don't deceive the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50563	Thank you. We're moving on with the club debate. It is up to the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50564	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, there's no one from the government or the INA. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs imagine that one of you is selling the house and getting a corporal first-hand 25% of the agreed price, and after some time the rest is up to 47%. But by the time he gets a 25% stake in the property store, he's a buyer. Everyone would ask me, does this have anything to do with common sense and common sense? And that's the whole, in fact, the entire substrate, of these today's debates and transfers and transfers from 2002 to 2003 to today between the SDP and HDZ. Who did more damage? And not only did anyone compromise the state's interest, I'd say, who damaged it? And we're constantly setting up post-festum committees, past grandmother with cookies, and we're setting up a commission. What have all the committees solved in the first place? Imagine, the Army truck procurement commission didn't know that the German bidder was offering trucks that didn't meet the standards. And look, the German producer, a NATO pact member, has no idea what kind of trucks the Croatian state needs, as well as a NATO pact member. The grain disappearance committee, the wheat from the stock stores a few years ago, it seems to me that it was called the popular "Sex Commission", I apologize to Mr. Shakespeare who is not here because I mention him, what has been solved? Well, it didn't solve anything. The Cacic-Tomcic conflict committee, it was called something about a couple of years ago, even investigatively, right? What's solved? It didn't solve anything. In this country, it would take so many people in the commissions, starting from state level to local self-government and regional self-government, that it really is justifiable that the inflow and pressure on enrolment in the Faculty of Law and on the Faculty of Criminalism that one of the largest number of these young people should be employed in such committees. Because crime and corruption so much that really a Europe pointing a finger at us rightly points at us. Here's how it is through newspapers that are influenced by certain circles of political bickering. Today we are witnessing that it is coming out just before this debate the title in connection with irregularities in the purchase of 200 fire trucks at the time of the coalition government. Linic, Obersnel is moving to Osijek. Right after that, they surfaced, and it was even to say a little bit as stingy and a little shyly announced that there are also certain doubts about "Patria" and military vehicles fighting, armored as someone likes to say it. And there's always a tooth and there's always things that have actually been revealed. Which actually cost the Croatian state and the Croatian people of this state, such a poor state in which they are located. And we discuss post-festum and set up committees. In some ways, it is a bit of a farce, but it is not a farce for citizens, not in terms of what the commission will find and what it will invent and wise because the money is gone, the damage is irrevocably done, and there will be no benefit for the citizens in fact. Conversion and privatisation, so he spoke here seems to me Mr. Cain, again about putting in constitutional provisions to go on reviewing conversion and privatisation. But that and when it enters the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the question is how much will it be possible to carry out operationally. Where the current instruments, inspection tools and all those that some fear, fear, respect, patriotism regarding the conclusion of the contract and in connection with the management of Croatian wealth are placed on one level, on one test that this wealth of Croatian and Croatian gold and silver is finally not sold out all-round and Buddha. There's no such thing. So where were the current instruments at the time when this happened to prevent such a thing or at least warn about such things? I remember a good statement by the current prime minister, a pardon then the current one, and today it is a run-in, which claimed it must be resolved with a strategic partner. That it must be given to MOL such a number of shares and given its management rights. And the Deputy Prime Minister also, who, I don't know what today, Mr. Polancec has made the same claim publicly on television. In the first, so on the kick-ass news show, in Dnevnik, it's like breaking news. And today we're setting up a commission to check it out why they said it and what happened back then. The commission. A country of 45 billion euros in, let me say in a minus, not to say in something else. There's no going back. Mr. Bajic with USKOK and DORH can, have the need to fill the lawyers, excellent staffs and ask for a space that would be 2.3 years old, 5 years old what to do. But what's the use of finding something, turning it, and then letting most of them go again, I don't dare say, 'cause I'm going to answer for the word of a thief, here's someone and forgive me if they hear it, if the citizens don't benefit from it. So this debate today, which is obviously being held between two camps to determine some responsibility, I would say past grandmother with cookies, between SDP and HDZ, actually we shouldn't even be involved. It's a pure political game of accusations between these two camps in winning political points, but in fact only political points. The banks are privatized, privatized, as Cain said, by ironworks. Marines at sea, hotels, how'd it go? Where'd it go? I think that, as HSP once proposed a political illustration in a long time ago, we should have needed an economic illustration, not just a constitutional provision for revision, a revision of conversion and privatisation, but a real illustration, but who's going to do it, when the same names are always spinning, always the same names as someone said about INA, about Pliva, about Hypo Bank about this, as far as we're going to do it. In Slavonia there is therefore an oil dump Djeletovci, which supplies Croatia with about 40% of Croatian oil needs. Someone here said that by doing this, MOL was given control rights over oil reserves, gas, but did not mention water, because INA in its research, drilling for oil and gas has recorded underground tanks, underground water reserves. And this is new, if at all a new resource is the wealth a country can have, which is why Croatia is my fifth place in Europe and somewhere 45th place in the world, and it will be a new treasure. And we or HDZ or SDP who managed it, and I'm not going to point fingers here or point fingers at both fingers, we didn't care about that. Or those who did this were discussing whether they were for personal benefit, I can't say it shouldn't be done by an investigative commission, it's a matter of justice, it's things if you prove guilty to prison, and things are treason and treason of Croatia. No damage to Croatian interests, no endangerment of Croatian interests, it is a betrayal of Croatian interests. And that's why I don't know whether I'm for the commission or not, for establishing a commission, which is what they're going to decide when and so we know it was never productive that it never solved anything, no commission has solved anything, whether there's a consequence of the commission's work, and here we said about the trucks, the Commission didn't know that the German trucks didn't meet the standards that Croatia prescribed. It's being determined in court, imagine, before you knew it. So it's going to be the same here, there's going to be some kind of catch. About the strategic partnership, there's MOL's strategic partner, so we did him favors, so I wouldn't want to prejudge the things that will happen in the commission's work. Djakovština, we still don't know which doves scratched the wheat where it went. Whose are they? What color are they? Sparrows, mosquitoes? I don't want to talk about it because the thing is we're talking about INA, but I can honestly say that I don't know if I'm sadder, and I'm saddened to believe that I don't know if I'm going to vote to establish a commission or not when it's that way, when it's no use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50565	Thank you. We have three corrections to the incorrect allegations, the first is the distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50566	My dear colleague, you're saying that the commission founded on Cacic and Tomcic has solved nothing. This is completely incorrect, the commission unanimously established by the votes of all its members that Mr Tomcic did not at the time of the coalition government favour the company in which he had certain ownership shares. Thus, the conclusions of this commission were removed from this man the mud that had been on him for a long time, for political reasons just then by HDZ representatives. So the members of the HDZ in this Committee also accepted this conclusion because it stemmed from the facts discussed by the Commission and there was an irrefutable truth that actually restored dignity and reputation to a man who had been unjustly offended before.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50567	Thank you. It is up to the correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50568	Well, I have to correct a colleague who mentioned again that the commission had no idea that Man's trucks weren't responding. I think the commission knew everything just as much as he knew Jump as the State's Attorney's office, so there's no paper we didn't get, and that's where we definitely knew everything. And as for the commission of those earlier, I still expect that both the Commission and Cacic and Tomcic that, with the approval of the Parliament, it was going to the State's Attorney's office, that everything we found would come together and we found a terrible amount of crime in everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50569	Thank you. And it's time to correct the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50570	Thank you very much here, colleague Markovanovic has already corrected some. So I'm correcting the next incorrect quote. The truck commission didn't know that the German producer, thought of by MAN, didn't meet the conditions of the competition. The commission knew that it was not responding, the commission gave evidence that the required capacity of 5 tonnes, that MAN had no 5 tonnes, in the trial as we know it was the director of the sale of MAN and precisely on that knowledge the truck commission based its majority decision that the former defence minister did not commit a criminal offence. So the commission had documents and correctly evaluated them.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50571	Thank you. We're moving on to the clubs. It is next to the HNS Club of Honorable Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50572	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Break Club supports both initiatives. And it makes sense, and I thank my colleagues from the HDZ Club for expanding, firstly supporting the establishment of the Commission in a very important topic called the INA and secondly that the whole story is being analysed from the beginning to the end. That's good, that's useful, in any case it's to welcome because we're talking about a company carrying 10% of this country's GDP, a company that directly employs 10,000 and indirectly 50 grand, and what is particularly important is the company that, at the time it was operating under our control, which was until recently the backdrop of our energy independence, which we lost by this last contract signed by former Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Polancec. Maybe we haven't lost, but it's definitely downgraded, and almost certainly the damage to gas business is definitely done. What's the extent of that damage? In this regard, it will show time and in any case some future government will have an extremely difficult job in the recovery of something that has been done in my opinion very irresponsiblely, recklessly and thoughtlessly. To understand the whole story a little stronger and a little clearer, the Croatian People's Party club related to this point is returning to the beginning of this privatisation. And we argue that this is one of the very rare privatisations that has been made primarily extremely transparent but in its approach very constructive and strategically, particularly strategically responsible. In fact, it was not a privatisation, and it did not go into that privatisation in a way that allowed a strategic partner to have an obligation to capitalise, to retain the number of people, and usually, with all such contracts, people ended up on the road, which prohibits the sale of property, so the property would be sold first. I think it's clear to all of us and that we don't need to stress in particular that this was happening and how much crime the entire privatisation process is in these 20 years, a little less than 20 years. This dimension is especially known to those who have lost their assets and who have lost their jobs and who have lost their stock market. Unlike all these privatisations with this privatisation, the then coalition government set out in a way, firstly, to ask the INA to write which is their strategic development. Is the development of refineries, is their strategic development, the increase in petrol companies, is Syria, is Bosnia, all of those projects that INA was developing at the time? INA was given an assignment from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to write down what their strategic development is. Afterwards, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has opened the first tender for the collection of interested parties' offers, I repeat, with the obligation to give their strategic development plan, that they give their strategic vision of development, that they give their intention as a strategic vision both and in what way INA as an oil company should develop. When these offers and strategies came into line with INA's thinking, strategic partners' thinking and a platform was created, which is crucial, the oil industry's development strategies as a company. The basic key strategic elements were entered in the tender and the tender was very clear and it is written in the tender that strategically, and is sought in the second competition, demand offers and only the highest price, the only criterion, the highest price 25 plus one share. By writing in the tender, the strategic partner receives strategic management rights, not management rights, with the price. The contract, if you're reading it from your colleagues and colleagues, makes it very clear which rights you get with 25 plus one that was written in the tender, I repeat. The strategic partner when he was buying at the second competition, when he was buying when he offered his price he knew what to buy, to buy a company that had and these strategic provisions and to buy the possibility of strategic management with 25 plus one share. And the price has been achieved four times higher than it was estimated. From independent consulting houses, even if they are what counterpart Kunst said, who took up half of London or half of Europe doesn't matter at all, they know which consulting houses they were and what they were like. The contract was signed and a strategic partner with his two people in the administration, two people in the administration, two people in the administration of six and two people in the 7-supervisory board are managing the company. All that time, who controlled 2004, 2005, 2006, 2008, 2009? Who was in control? The monitoring board, where the MOL as a strategic partner had two people and a chairman of the supervisory board held by the Croatian government. They controlled how and how the company develops, they controlled how and how and how the strategic partner consumes his right that he paid, and in the tender I repeat, he knew what he was buying, how is the company further developing? Is the strategic partner sticking to the contract or does the company monitor its development defined by the contract and strategic plan? I repeat which was in the main elements and the component of the tender. Therefore, MOL or the buyer or possible buyers when offering their price knew what they were buying. And we knew the Croatian side knew what they were offering. Today we have what? Today we have that MOL, with a minority package, has management rights, not just strategic. Because under the first contract, he had a strategic, not a 100% control. Today he has management rights and logic talks and everywhere is present in the world, and that's something that's common, so you can get management rights, but for that right manager, you have to pay the bonus. This is a bonus if it's paid, that's a question, everyone's asking. If the bonus is not paid, Croatia has all the rights, all options normally if it wants to break the contract and return again under control what is called an INA oil company that is crucial to the country's energy sovereignty. If the strategic partner paid the steering bonus then it's a matter for the state of Croatia, then those funds have come, they exist somewhere. What are we talking about? If he paid and the Croatian state did not receive the funds, the question is who received it, where are the funds. But the fact is that today we have three members of the government of the Republic of Croatia and three members of the management of the MOL. We today at the Supervisory Board MOL have five members of the Supervisory Board, Republic of Croatia three plus one employee representative. And there's one thing that doesn't make sense to me. Both the Republic of Croatia and MOL together have below 50% by 2% and slightly the MOL is stronger than the Republic of Croatia, by 2% and some... It doesn't matter exactly what you say. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it is important to say precisely that for approximately the same amount of MOL shares there are five members of the Supervisory Board and the Republic of Croatia three for almost the same, the difference is 2 and some percent. Is that logical? In other words, I'm perfectly certain, and I agree with my colleague Kunst, he needs to be investigated. And that's where I support it. Not very often, but this time I also support my colleague Kunst when he spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club. The question arises if there are any secret contracts because I just don't want to believe that someone is giving someone management rights without paying a bonus, I don't want to believe,... Then really incompetent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether the commission formed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for negotiations with INA is about defining how and how to give MOL management rights. Was that commission meeting? If it's just the Deputy Prime Minister Polancec I worked alone, we don't know that. They'll know each other. Did the president of the state ask on several occasions to publish a contract that was secret until a certain time, which even the former prime minister of the government, and surprised the current prime minister when she saw him, unlike the contract that was made in 2003 that was immediately online and everyone could see him. So there's a whole series of questions, some of them with a time-out, and just because of the time-out they're trying to change, they're trying to steer away from the truth, away from that content truth. He's trying simply on a coalition government that exactly at the end of her term signed a contract, whether it should have been at the time, but she did the whole thing. But from that time to today, the government of the Republic of Croatia has had control over the INA Supervisory Board, and there is a question of what these people have been doing. If the strategic partner did not respect the contract he signed, he is a strategic element of what was done. And crucially, I'll do it again. If MOL cannot prove that he paid a premium on management rights with a minority stock package, the right of Croatia must be taken away from him. If MOL paid for it, you should see where he paid for it. If the Croatian state does not have that means, there is now a message and opportunity for the state lawyer Bajic who has recently received support in this Croatian Parliament to justify this trust, including my own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50573	Thank you. We now have several corrections of incorrect allegations. However, before that I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time to report a debate of 10 minutes at 10 o'clock 58 minutes. The first is now the turn for correcting the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Frana Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50574	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect that the privatisation of INA was transparent. It is precisely inaugural strategy of the secrecy of the negotiations that is allegedly aimed at achieving the Croatian government's best position. That's not true. It is through this contract that it is clear that the strategic partner with the fact that decisions on the Supervisory Board must be more important decisions, must be taken with at least six votes, including one vote of the MOL and those decisions are really extremely important. Each decision is extremely important, it has given them greater management rights. Secondly, you said the value was achieved in this competition four times the real value, over the one that was planned. That's not true because that would mean it. ... So the estimated value wasn't $500 million for the entire firm. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What are you talking about? It was at least about a billion 800 million dollars was a value assessment. They paid 505 million. That would mean that the whole INA was worth it your way at that time of $505 million. Don't deceive the public. And where did the $100 million premium go? We'll just find out.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50575	Thank you. I'd like to ask you without throwing it out of the bench. We can't, it can't be thrown out of the bench. Whoever wants to answer the word will get a word in the rules as it says. The second correction to the incorrect allegations is the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50576	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect that, and I am not surprised that the president, or representative of the HNS Club, is making it incorrect that MOL received only strategic, not management rights in 2003. Because if there were just 5,000 members of the Supervisory Board, and 2 members from MOL, from Croatia, I speak, 2 from MOL, and everything was brought with 5001 votes, so these are management rights. And let us remember that just on January 3, 2000, in the division of the loot, that the coalition government has done it neatly, the CNS has been given responsibility in addition to reconstruction and construction for the INA. So his responsibility is the greatest.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50577	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50578	It sounds good to say that it would be true, so the incorrect statement by Mr. Korajevic, who argued that the strategic development plans and their compliance were one of the most important criteria of the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the cost of making a decision. Sounds good, but it's not true. The most important criterion was the bonus premium. And what about the INA strategic development plans was thought and thought by MOL best shows the next fact that MOL immediately abolished the sector for strategic planning and business development in INA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50579	Thank you. And last correction, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50580	Thank you very much. So it is incorrect that only MOL representatives could influence strategic plans without in principle INA’s business being disturbed. I will remind you of the conflict that began in the first year of 2003 between the INA administration and the government at the time when business plans and changes of business plans could not be adopted because they blocked it, Hungarian representatives vetoed in the supervisory board and in the management. So what MP Markovanovic said, it doesn't matter how many members he is, the thing is that you gave such a steering right that simply with 75% who has control capabilities could not affect anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50581	Thank you. We continue the debate by clubs and it is up to the distinguished representative Davor Bernardić on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50582	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So this is the way if you doubt bad business decisions, if you suspect a breach of public interest in how the SDP initiates an investigation, by achieving the commission to determine the facts. But I'm afraid that everything that happens around Ina today is a losing company, which today is a majority-owned company, is that it's only a drop in the sea of all irregularities that will be identified at the moment when the SDP assumes responsibility for the management of Croatia. I am afraid it is a drop in the sea in the business of all and an analysis of all public companies that have a crucial impact for the Croatian economy, since they have an annual turnover of more than 70 billion kuna and I would not like it when we arrive in a position to manage Croatia, and soon for the benefit of Croatian citizens, to start falling out of these companies... When strategic privatisation is carried out then it is carried out for a reason and for a purpose. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of the goals is also to expand the market, which was the main goal and was the driver of strategic privatisation. The second is recapitalisation and investment in modernisation, and it is also a strategic goal. The third one covers all of this, and it's very simple for better business. But when you take over the company and you have the highest responsibility in the administration, then you are responsible for the business results in the same company. 6 weeks. For 7 years HDZ has been headed through the INA authorities' behaviour, 7 years directly responsible for what happened in INA, and we can't be the same there and we have to draw the line. If something in strategic planning was wrong, then you were obliged to react because you were then in office. If something was wrong, be sure that the State's Attorney's Office and the police who respond to much smaller cases would already react in the event of a seven-year-old privatisation. But that privatisation of 25% of INA shares was made the most transparent way, which is the fact, in an international tender was sold at a very high rate at the time. This means privatisation was carried out at the highest standards and the conclusions were to be implemented, and the management rights were not handed over to the Hungarians as is the case today. And beyond that, in the last seven years how much responsibility your government has had, and even at the head of INA's responsibility, series has happened, I could say so, various events that somehow sold INA shares. 7% were transferred to the Croatian Defence Fund, a public sale of 17% of the shares of the INA was carried out and 7% were distributed to employees. The Croatian Defence Fund has decided to sell its package to the MOL. What we want to warn about and what we are alluding is that just by selling those 7% MOL came into possession of more shares of INA than the Croatian state has and that precisely because of those 7% with 2.3% more share shares by a secret contract signed by i.e. Done at the 67th session of the Government of Hungary and MOL, respectively, received 100% management of the company INA. There are a number of problems that open up and a number of things that would be good to examine and sort of remove doubts from the processes that were happening at the time. We're not looking for anything but to determine the facts, and the facts that followed were also that the government delayed the gas business for a year so that INA would increase the price of the gas it did. However, in four years, the government has taken over the gas business for the next five years, the government has taken responsibility for the gas business in Croatia, and thus, since our market is not in line with the European Union market when it comes to gas and we are waiting for much higher prices of gas on the free market when we enter the European Union directly, we can say this by saying the likely loss of INA of 4 billion kuna. We also want facts to be established about it. What follows is the purchase of a warehouse around 505 million kuna. The same INA in the last year achieved a loss of 1 billion kuna and 1 billion kuna, which is precisely due to the Croatian state in the name of taxes and excise duties. INA is today a company that does business with loss. INA is today a company that has failed to meet the strategic goals set before it at the beginning of this decade. And we're afraid that the INA doesn't happen to the fate of the Plives that Agent Maras was talking about. The questions to be examined by the investigating committee are very simple and come down to elementary courtesy. I must point out that we have sent to this assembly an interpretation of the analysis of the work of public enterprises in order to establish the business of public enterprises that with... The revenue of more than 60 billion kuna has a key impact on the economic development of the Republic of Croatia, which has been rejected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It also rejected the conclusion to establish strategic guidelines for the work of public enterprises over the next three years. It's also denied. So what are we afraid of in that case? It is also refused to establish criteria for wages, criteria for all those things that can contribute to the rationalisation of costs in public enterprises. And it's been denied. I'm afraid the case of INA and the INA Investigation Commission is just a drop in the sea of irregularities and riots in public enterprises, but also in a country which, unfortunately, we'll have to reveal for a long time after we come to power. What we're looking for are simple things, determining the facts, whether there have been favors and whether the interests of citizens and the protection of property have been achieved, or whether the interests of citizens and the Republic of Croatia have been protected. The first thing we're asking is why MOL's days are bigger management rights than usual. That's especially when they have 2.3% more stakes. Why isn't another interested company involved in the privatisation process? Who was a member of the negotiating committee with MOL? What made the government decide to take over the gas business? What was the gas storage facility about the gas in it for? Were there any positives to MOL during the entire procedure? Are the interests and assets of the Republic of Croatia protected in this case, most importantly, and is the state budget of the Republic of Croatia damaged because of any irregularities and in what amount? These are the things the SDP is looking for in the work of this Commission of Investigation that it expects answers from, because the way in which the scenario was approached in answer to these problems and especially when it comes to the management rights cannot guarantee, or cast doubt on what happened during that period as well as the secret contract. And therefore we would not want to believe that Croatia, that Croatian citizens are damaged in this process. This will be established and I would not want the INA case to be just a drop in the sea of all cases and skeletons from the closet that will start falling out the moment we take responsibility for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50583	Thank you. We have a few corrections. The first is Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50584	Thank you, Mr. President. Inaccurate counterpart Bernardic says everything will come out when the SDP comes to power. It's for a few reasons. One reason is that they have an extraordinary role to play in the shadow of the government, and that is their ultimate reach. The second reason is to say SDP's strongest man, Slavko Linic, even though he damaged the city of Rijeka for 80 million kuna to get out of time, instead of resigning, because they quit out there to buy diapers from social money, not this. Secondly, it is incorrect that people will accept a party whose representative of the SDP is normal, the SDP representative of the Committee for the Research of Corruption, so to fight corruption is obstructing the investigation. Well, that's, I mean, it's not happening anywhere! Every honorable man in the SDP, I believe in other parties, would resign if he did.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50585	We have three injuries to the Rules of Procedure in the meantime. That's Mr. Davor Bernardic first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50586	Dear President, Articles 209 and 214 have been injured. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So, counterpart Markovanovic, not that he was not correcting the incorrect allegations, counterpart Markovanovic expressed the indictment proposal and you owe it to him according to Rules of Procedure 214. The indictment proposal is not a place to be pronounced here and this is not the institution to discuss it. We have no doubt alluded through the establishment of an investigative commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50587	I would agree with you not to turn the assembly into the Office of State Attorneys or some investigative bodies, but unfortunately this happens often and I don't think that, in fact, I don't owe anything, but what comes from the Rules of Procedure, so please don't take my part for now. Let's move on, Gordan Maras also hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50588	Mr. President, Mr. Markovanovic violated the 214th paragraph of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 214, paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 6 which says that he must not, with his exposure, belittle or insult the president or other MPs. He argued that Slavko Linic damaged someone for something that no one in Croatia has claimed, not the attorney's office, nor any proposal exists about Slavko Linic, and offended his fellow MPs and should be told about it. He can't be offended. It's like now I'm saying that my colleague Markovanovic damaged the city of St. Sunday for 128 million 216 kunas, and nobody, and now I sit down and we move on. And I mean it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50589	My fellow representative, I agree with you if these criteria were applied to anyone who speaks so in this House. Who speaks so in this House who accuses without proof, and so on. Since we do not stick to it in general, then I do not see why we should apply one thing in one case, and in the other one, or worse, we do not apply anything. Please, I'm against turning the courtroom into a state's attorney's office, but unfortunately it's been done here already systematically since the very beginning of this thing that I've been able to answer in some way since the very beginning of this assembly. There are charges here all the time, no evidence whatsoever. Even when it's evidence, no one has the right to bring charges here. Even when it's irrefutable evidence, because this isn't a courtroom, this is a Parliament and I pray that everyone, and then I have the same criteria for everyone. And we have Mr. Arsen Bauk, please. ... I don't know what she was about, I just sat there, you know, three minutes ago. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Listen, did you hear me? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't justify what the gentleman said. Wait, I'm just looking for the same criteria for everyone. Don't have the same criteria for this side, but have the same criteria for this side, and then we'll come, we'll get along very quickly. ... Please, I've been fighting here all the time in this House not to turn into the state's attorney's office, and you're witnesses, if you're going to admit that it's being systematically done, that I'm here to mention Roncevic, so it's already being investigated, indicted and convicted, whether I was then responding and looking for people don't do that, don't act like that in the Croatian Parliament. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So these are questions, I'm not saying, I agree completely with you, but the criteria can be the same. Or then we don't talk and we don't think the same thing. Here. There's still Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50590	Thank you, Mr. President. I will respect the fact that you haven't been through the whole presentation, and I will warn you, therefore, of the violation of the Rules of Procedure in Articles 209 and 214, as my predecessors have said, so Mr Markovnović came out, did not correct the allegations, came out of the topic, and as far as your stories of privatisation in 2003 are concerned, it was precisely that you sent by then Minister of Economy Jurčić to rescue "Podravka" from your Minister of Economy Polancec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50591	It's also a time-consuming, sort of indictment and let's stay away from it. I ask the representatives of the club that I belong to not engage in any qualification, but that they present the facts critically, openly, no one here will suppress anyone's thought, nor limit, but I ask you to keep it in line with the Rules of Procedure, that no one is offended individually. So you stick to the subject, you speak, and you don't get the approval of the president, your incursions are disrupting the speech, all of these are reasons, you report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and an incorrect statement, you start talking about the 70th subject, like hundreds of times here, hundreds of times not once, demeaning, insulting the president or other MPs, with your conduct falling away from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. I do not think that the Croatian Parliament is something special in this regard, I have been in many, there was a colleague of Gajica, so he looked together with me in one Parliament the greatest democracy in the world, far worse forms and so, but we do not have to look up to them, we are fine among ourselves correct and everything will be fine. Here, just correctness, nothing else, no restriction... , not to limit the debate in any way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since I am here in some way by some provision of the Rules of Procedure to explain it a little bit, forgive me for saying this again, but it seems we must, because we have different criteria for the same things. Thank you very much. Here, and whose is it that's getting right now? Oh, yeah, whose, uh, who hurt the Rules of Procedure? What? ... Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50592	Mr. President of the Parliament, I warn you of a violation of Article 209 of our Rules of Procedure which says it will. ... You, yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You. The injury occurred, the Rules of Procedure injured you at the current morning, I asked the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system that had to arrive within 24 hours, it was more than 24 hours, no answer was received in this regard, it is your duty to make sure that the Rules of Procedure is respected, and I am only telling you now because you asked for the same criterion. It's the same, just because you asked for the same criteria for everything. Therefore, even when the opposition representative warns that the Rules of Procedure has been violated by the President of the Parliament and when the Rules of Procedure gives him the right to receive a statement of the Constitutional Committee within 24 hours, it is your duty to, regardless of what the opposition representative has asked for, and to receive such an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50593	... But some things aren't the same, because I have to quote you in Article 10(3), if the speaker even after the second call, another means there must be two at least, not holding the agenda theme the president will take away his word. [[Specially enabled.]] In that case, the representative may no longer take part in the debate on the subject of the agenda. I, for all of us, am studying again and again and I keep reading the Rules of Procedure in order to reach something, so little I discover some details that would strengthen us in these particulars and therefore thank you for your help. I'll tell the Chairman of the Constitution Committee what you rightly complained about not getting in 24 hours, so I'll pass it on to him, be assured. What did I say? Very energetic or what? Resolutely, I'm determined to take action. Thank you very much. Now we have a correction, Mr. Frane Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50594	I thank Mr. President, so the SDP has re-placed the thesis that the privatisation of INA was transparent. That's not true. Negotiations were conducted in secret, a decision was taken at a closed cabinet session far from the public's eyes with opposition from then-President Budisha and by the government in resignation. Governments in resignation that should not make such important, strategic decisions until they see what the future of that government will be. And secondly, when you're talking about rights, management rights, another fact. It is not transparent because the government said it would only make a decision if there are 3 bidders, at least 3 bidders. There were only two offers. They only said if there were 3 bids then a decision would be made. There were only two offers, two valid offers. And the second thing, the management rights acquired by the shareholder contract are such that they cross all the rights that arise from the Commercial Society Act Article 211 where they speak of the equality and equality of all shareholders, which reads as follows: "under equal conditions, a shareholder has an equal position in society." That's a real violation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50595	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. We've got one more, not one more, but a few more. Anna Lovrin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50596	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's Mr Bernardic, a representative, speaking for the club, said that this privatisation, he thinks, was carried out in the most transparent way in 2003. It's simply incorrect. Because if it were true, then we'd all know today, and we wouldn't be discussing whether it's a premium for managing a strategic partner or not? Whether it was arranged or not, it was transparent. And here I quote Mr. Cacic, who was then a minister in the government who said, "The premium is paid for managing a strategic partner." Recently here in the assembly we heard of then Deputy Prime Minister Linic when he wondered where the premium money was, that the premium was never paid. So neither the vice president nor the ministers at the time is it transparent whether she was paid, not paid? Is it a deal, let alone a public matter? So it's good to move the subject matter of interest of this investigative committee a little bit backwards. Perhaps a little further back since 2003, then it might have fallen out of the closet and some skeleton that would say who, as well as whose order INA sold its shares in the Adriatic Maritime Service, which was at the time very profitable and later blackmailed the same INA for transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50597	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, here's your correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50598	Thank you very much. Well, the incorrect assumption is that management rights are not committed to the Hungarians. Well, my colleague Bernardic, not even Count Minhausen, would have been so persistent in repeating the inaccuracies that go by on your part. I believe you know that, but for the sake of the public, you won't admit it. And be careful if the company's basic plan cannot be brought without the consent of a Hungarian, then you understand how such a company can be run. Well, that's clear to the little kid. We don't have to place it as a lie for the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50599	Thank you. Mr. Krešimir Ćosic, correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50600	Dear Mr. President, it is entirely incorrect what Mr. Bernardic stated, quote: "When the SDP manages the Croatian state it will only be in the interest of Croatian citizens." Sounds good, unfortunately yours, incorrect. I would say too hard and incorrectly because the 2003 INA Privatisation Act is the law. Article 10(3) has opened the door to the strategic takeover of MOL of all management rights in INA. The premium is paid, based on art. Article 10(3) 2003 Treaty of the Government of Ivica Racan. Therefore, when we promise something to Croatian citizens, then we must also take care of some of our own, I would say, experiences in our ranks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50601	Thank you. And Goran Maric is another correction to the incorrect allegations, so we will end up with corrections.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50602	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Bernardic, said, quotes: "The competition was carried out in the most transparent manner possible in 2003, and management rights are not given to MOL." Well, it would be more transparent if in the competition it was that the management rights were given, which the potential customers didn't know. They only knew that they were buying 25% plus 1 shares and rights that are proportional to those equity shares. And then, at the same time, only the buyer is known, the established management rights which are even regulated by the Shareholders' Relationships Treaty, where it is taxively stated that all management rights are acquired above those that would otherwise come naturally from 25% plus 1 share, but even affect even over 75%. Because this contract was regulated that they could, and they changed the statutes, but according to the Commercial Society Act, the statutes can only be changed if there are 3/4 existing votes of existing shareholders.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50603	Thank you. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50604	President-in-Office of the Parliament, I ask you to protect me in accordance with an article. 214. If you say something was transparent, and then you say it wasn't transparent, you ask the gentlemen what you've been doing for seven years? What were the institutions of this state doing? What was the State's Attorney's Office doing? What was the police doing? So you've been in the management position for seven years? Well, that's the defendant's suggestion again.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50605	I don't know, I haven't heard an article from the Rules of Procedure that's been hurt. Let's not use this institute unnecessarily, who knows which time I'm warning you, please. We will now interrupt the session briefly because of the memorial gathering that we will hold, and then, at 15 o'clock, Mr. Maras, on behalf of the promoter, will be the first to receive his word at 15 o'clock. And then it's Mr. Dragutin Lesar's turn in a regular debate. So, we'd be taking down the benches now, if it weren't for that kind of paper in the front. There are likely to be others involved here, the family of the late Radic, etc., and we will have a short memorial gathering at 12 o'clock. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50606	We're continuing the session. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50607	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I came forward after all the clubs held their debates and I'm glad to find out that everyone is in agreement about this commission being set up, but I still have to react to some of the things that have been said in front of the promoters in club debates. As far as it is concerned, there should be once and for all, and there will likely be opportunities, given that the commission has expanded, to shed light on the story of the first privatisation and to tell the final public in which way, in our opinion, an extremely transparent, competition was made in 2003. 3 bidders, 2 valid offers. One bid 170 million less than the one accepted. After that, the contract signed that defined INA investments. All in front of the public, someone said it wasn't. Absolutely open bids. I remember in front of the press openings when they were reading how many of these companies offered for INA. Of course, it must be compared to how much if we move the price of today's situation, how much did Croatia get for those shares. I said, and someone mentioned it, the premium paid for the management rights was paid through a higher stock price. Because today, if we were to sell those stocks from that time, I'd compare the value of CROBEX back then and today, about 2600, 2700 kuna would be worth. Which is about 50% more than the nominal value of the shares. So, a good job, a good job, and what's true, the strategic partner who entered the INA asked for some rights, and he got those rights that are common to that relationship between two partners. 2 members of the Management Board of 6 and 2 members of the Supervisory Board of 7. With it absolutely not possible for a foreign investor to stop investment in INA, because it signed in a dynamics contract and that the INA will continue to develop and how much of the refinery and within what time it will invest. So, no business plans or anything else mentioned in the discussions of individual representatives and clubs were possible to stop further investment in INA. The only thing that could stop further investment in INA was that unfortunately those who were able to manage, and that is again the Croatian side, and it is not now mentioned again that it is HNS. I mean, what does HNS have to do with the director who stayed behind during the HDZ government she left behind and confirmed twice over a six-year period? Vice-Presidents of the Supervisory Board, current Minister and Vice-President for the Economy Shuker and former Vice-President for the Polancec Economy. So everything that's been said and scissors and skirts were in the hands of the government. She could, if she wanted and had been aware and able, continue to invest in the INI, and that is the only reason why today the company did not complete this investment cycle that was planned, again I say, when signing the first contract between the two partners. The other thing, and what is mentioned, is absolutely that now rights are not only strategic, or between partners who were defined days on strategic matters in 2003. Will the INA cease to exist, where will it be the center? How and what activities will he carry out? These are the rights and decisions that partners must make if they are in business together. Now they're all real days to MOL, but without any visible, I'd say, compensation fees. Because here de facto the government did not participate, under quotes it did not participate, or in a visible way did not participate in the whole business. It says he sold the MOL to the Croatian Defence Fund of 7% of the shares. Okay, but there were some people who were participating in the government. And people who were close to the authorities and who made decisions that were complementary to what the government advocated. What Prime Minister Sanader made public long before it even came to the agenda. On the other hand, I'll say one more thing. At that moment when MOL made an offer on a public 2800 kuna for one part of INA, it was something higher than normal, than it was on the stock market and when compared to how much MOL had to pay for this management right probably Croatian citizens who were then selling shares would get for that stock perhaps 600,700,800 kuna more. If we had set such conditions for MOL, if we had introduced a certain company into the privatisation story and thus raised the stock prices, perhaps then Croatian citizens would have received, or perhaps not, but would have certainly received, a higher price of shares. And that's what it's about, of course, that we need to see why it wasn't done that way. So it is not disputed that you can leave management rights, but then it must be clear why and it must be clear that it has the benefit of the state, to benefit Croatian citizens who are shareholders. Because MOL made an offer to everyone who had shares. If we had put MOL in the position that it had to give a higher price then those Croatian citizens who sold the shares would have benefited. This is not how they had to sell the shares at that price that was offered with of course numerous articles in the paper if you don't sell now they'll lose value, there's no way you can ever sell them at that price again. With the announcements of former Prime Minister Sanader, MOL is the only serious partner. In addition to many of the things that are sold by people, the first to sell was the portfolio of the Croatian Defence Fund. And when people saw it, look, these really got close to 50%, if we don't sell now we're not gonna get anything. If they cross 50% more of our shares won't be necessary or necessary, then people went to sell. But the fact is, we could have made it a smarter policy for people to get maybe 3500, 3600 instead of 2800. And that's what we really need to clarify to people why, maybe there's some reason we don't know which was in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, in a contract that we have seen that is amazing to me that it is so complex, it is possible that MOL manages everything. I explained, three management members, of whom the chairman of the administration has the main vote if there is a problem, are by the strategic partner MOL. Croatia no longer has any ability to operate the company anymore and I said over 10 years it is possible that MOL gradually if it is in his interest, reduces the size of business, does not invest, theoretically sells parts of INA, all of this exists and unfortunately we have signed this in this contract. And that's why it's important to say that unfortunately, if it went the way it was in 2003, the result would be next. Either they would get a much higher price than the Croatian citizens and the Croatian Defence Fund for this further privatisation or the contract that would be signed after the change of force within the INA or the ratio of shares within the INA would be significantly different within five years of the first contract. And that is what must be determined, that is what the Croatian public answers through this Parliament and this Research Commission must know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50608	Thank you. Four corrections. First, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50609	So I have to confess to Agent Maras about the repetition, the persistent repetition of inaccuracy, and I believe that Baron Minhausen would give him credit for it. Well, there can't be anything transparent, and that's this incorrect quote, there can't be anything transparent if someone with 25% stake in the property of one company has more control rights than another who has 75% stakes. Well, that's clear to the sparrows out there, so you don't have to convince us here, now the television is broadcasting, don't convince us now, I understood this by noon why you were talking. And secondly, decisions were made at a closed session, the government was resigning, the Deputy Prime Minister was against such a decision in selecting MOL's strategic partner for the purchase of INA, this is what the government records are for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50610	Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50611	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Maras, said, quotes: "The premium, i.e. the management fee, is paid for the higher price of shares", reading the contracts is not visible, and I suppose it is not in there because if it were then announced that shares are sold and management rights are granted. And management rights were granted only when the known buyer was a stock. Therefore, potential customers did not know how many management rights they had when buying shares, so it can only be concluded that the premium is not included in the price of shares. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50612	Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50613	Here, Your Honor, Vice President, between a series of incorrect allegations, there is only one who deserves attention. It is incorrect as the esteemed representative Maras said that all the conditions for investments in modernising this contract were created, it is completely incorrect because MOL took the view that investments in the modernisation of refineries and all other parts of INA can be implemented exclusively from business. Therefore, the strategic partner had no obligation to invest strategically in the modernisation of INA, but was simply reduced to revenue from the current business. What these current business revenues were like is understandable what INA's modernisation was like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50614	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Next.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50615	Here, colleague Maras, incorrectly states that INA management rights were sold last year. So today we have repeated countless times that management rights were sold on July 17, 2003, so I ask the question, where is the 2003 management rights fee. Probably ended up in the same pockets as Daimler's money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50616	Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50617	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In discussions in the establishment of these investigative committees, we often drive a rabbit, sometimes we drive out a wolf, but there's always the third important one missing, and that's the hunter. And there's never a hunter's investigation at the end. The debate on this serious issue when INA is at stake as a debate on the energy sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, and first of all, we must recognise to ourselves that by selling INA and, in particular, by handing over management rights to INA, Croatia has lost much of its energy sovereignty. And all that was going on later on is proof of how a state passes by, that it loses its hands, sells or surrenders to the management of such significant resources as energy. We can prove it on the subject of refinery. How much has been invested in the development of refineries after the sale of INA any. How much money is invested in environmental protection in any INA-owned facility. As much as was invested in exploiting domestic oil sites. I don't remember, I didn't have a chance to see any more serious investment in these INA resources in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, it is with thermal and mineral waters that appear as a side find in research when searching for oil or gas. Have we clearly defined the management or right of management of thermal and mineral waters, which, according to me and my information, have indirectly become the ownership of MOL? What about the gas? First we sold the warehouse around and then bought back from the INA or MOL, not our own funds to the editor, so we had to borrow credit without any more serious natural gas storage being built in the meantime. It may now be clearer why Croatia couldn't define all this time and make a final decision on the construction of a gas terminal. Why has the Croatian side and Croatian consortium been unable to find a deal all this time to build a gas terminal? Perhaps in this and the answer to the question, why did former Prime Minister Sanader not go to a meeting in Moscow in the day and moment when they defined the final routes of the pipeline towards Western Europe and why Croatia, and I would say now almost, I hope that the correct information that Prime Minister Kosor arrived in Moscow at their prime minister's feet has run out of south or south of it for gas supplies. If you connect all these events then you will see that all decisions have been made in the area of oil and gas energy to harm the Republic of Croatia. That, in any international decision on whether we were late or not, we were either present or left out, without using that sentence from the Energy Strategy that we must use our country's written position in energy development as our advantage. It turns out that our geographical position has become a handicap, not an advantage. And finally. I have also given the written amendment and I propose that point 1 but also point 3 be completed and that the subject matter of the investigation committee be the first addition to the main gas business contract of December of last year. Namely, the first addition of the main contract was entered in a provision under which the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave MOL a chance or promise of a possible sale of up to 50% of the Hajan bloc with the possibility of repurchase in favour of INA. At first, I thought that Hayan block was here somewhere in Zagreb, Sesvedi or Zapresic. What's a Hayan block? The contract only says Hayan Block. A large gas and oil site in Syria, which INA purchased and has owned and co-owners relations with Syria 50:50 and therefore received concessions for research exploitation of oil and gas fields in Syria. The first year of research opened three large fields of Đihar, Palmyra Al Mahar. So far, a billion dollars has been invested in these three fields by INA, I repeat a billion dollars. Three other major fields of Jazal, Mustadira and Mazur were soon opened. Only one thing turned out to be inert for exploitation. And what happened a month ago? The Hungarian partner and Hungarian INA administration ordered a stop of drilling in Syria, workers were withdrawn to Croatia and the decision is valid until the end of the calendar year. If INA fails to implement the concession contract and by the end of the year, these two test wells will lose their concession in Syria. MOL bought INA for the reason he wanted to enter Syria through INE, and MOL was blacklisted in Syria and Syrians did not allow him to enter. They entered through or tried to enter the INA into Syria to strengthen the INA's negotiating positions banned the continuation of the contractual obligation. And that's why in this contract, I guess not knowing at the request of the Hungarian foreign government announces the sale of half of INA's stake in Syria, and in this way the Hungarians wanted to enter Syria, but apparently something happened and they interrupted further works. Will this contract clause and the order to stop investigative works on the Hayen INA block leave Hayen INA without a concession in Syria, lose concession in Syria and how much will the INA be on the market then? I therefore believe that the subject matter of the processing and work of the investigating committee must be the first addition to the main gas business contract in order to clarify all possible dilemmas and consequences and possible consequences of such a business decision by the INA administration, and to the damages of the Republic of Croatia worth about a billion dollars.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50618	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone, she's losing her word. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50619	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The need to establish an investigative committee on this subject exists in the Assembly of Consensus of all parties and that is good. The initiative was launched by the SDP, the HDZ accepted the initiative. And it is a good proposal from the HDZ that the commission is also engaged in the initial privatisation of the INA. This is a very important topic, a topic of the particular interest of the citizens of this country, and they certainly have the right to know the full truth whether it was done transparently or not, whether it was done in the interest of the Republic of Croatia or not. When are the investigative committees set up? They are founded when the state authorities do not do their job well or are reluctant to do it and when the need to involve parliament in fact is shown, so that through investigative committees, they try to reach some truths. The investigative committees have very high powers, they can obtain all the documents they need, they can call any witness and each witness must respond to the investigation committee and must speak the full truth before that commission. What are the possibilities for the commission to come to the truth? Big ones. However, parliament's investigative committees have one flaw, which is that the ratio of members of the commission, that it illustrates the ratio of strength in parliament itself, which means that the parliamentary majority, the parliamentary majority in each investigation committee, has a majority of members. It should not be an obstacle if there is an honest intention for members of the committee to know the truth rather than to be politicised in the commission. Often that's not the case. What are our experiences with these investigative committees so far? I personally led two committees, one for Tomcic and Cacic and now this for the trucks. The commission for Tomcic and Cacic, which was to determine whether they favoured companies while they were in power at the time of Racan's coalition government, did they favour the companies in which they had the stakes. In the case of Mr. Tomcic, the commission, by all members and HDZ, the SDPs, the HNSs, I don't know who was in there, HSS didn't know if he was, concluded that Mr. Tomcic had not only sinned against the laws of any kind but really did nothing to please the company in which he had some kind of ownership stake. The Commission has already justified its existence because it has taken one step off the man who has long been throwing himself at him for purely political reasons, but this is what the commission has done, and I repeat it by consensus, by unanimous conclusion of all the members, which means that sometimes, regardless of having different relations, or because they reflect the relationship of forces in the Assembly, there can be unique conclusions. With regard to Mr Cacic, the conclusions were not unique but the whole material of this commission was addressed to the DORH because it was the conclusion and the DORH, although the HDZ majority then concluded that Cacic had never been able to match any other body, so neither the police nor the DORH had ever accused Cacic of any illegality in relation to his position. Never, and they got the results of this commission and that commission, or HDZ's majority in it, accused Cacic of it. It's not easy working in committees. And this commission that we're going to set up here will also have a ratio of strength that will be mirrored by parliament. The parliamentary majority will have most members in this commission as well. The commission will be led by an opposition representative because such a law on investigative committees is and will not be as easy for him as it has been for me in two committees. He could come across a lot of resistance. For example, I was banned from calling a session as chairman of the committee, so I was banned from contacting the press. I had to talk to myself on my blog to make the public aware of what was being done in the commission. They closed the testimony for General Milicevic but opened the chief of staff on the basis of the same decision by the minister, both of them. They had a completely identical decision from the minister but most decided to close the session for one, for the other to open. I've been banned from calling witnesses. So they wouldn't let me call Mr. Bačić to testify and he's the second indictee today in the case we've dealt with on the commission. As you can see, the possibility of a parliamentary majority and their members in the commission is high. That could happen here, too. It may also happen here that the parliamentary majority, unless they have an honest intention to reveal the truth, is blocking or making it difficult for the president who is from the opposition to refuse to call the relevant witnesses. One word, he wants to hide the truth, not reveal it. However, even in such circumstances, the work of the commission makes sense. Why? Because there's an ally public. Journalists who follow with great interest have always followed the work of investigative committees and are informing the public and they are the best allies. And to the colleagues who will work in this commission right here, I am now passing on my experience. A further large instrument at the disposal of the minority in the commission is an opportunity to isolate its opinion. In fact, the truth is not what most people conclude, it does not necessarily have to be true by bringing the majority. The truth is simply true whether most accept it as truth or try to hide it. That's exactly what happened in this investigation committee in the affair trucks. It has been shown that the minority's opinion is actually true and that the case deserves the judicial treatment it has experienced, and that all those conclusions that the parliamentary majority has imposed on that commission are actually not worth much. I warn you, this may happen in this commission, but the public as an ally, media, journalists can be of crucial help. That is why I am pleased to have this commission established because one important issue is being established. I hope that the experiences of the two previous committees will convince the parliamentary majority that such a form of work as they had in the last commission is not worth much, that it actually compromises them rather than the truth and that it will sincerely cooperate in good faith and in good intent to reveal the truth regardless of how unpleasant she was and for whom she was uncomfortable, because then the work of the investigating committee gets its full meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50620	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50621	Mr. Vice President. And here's the old custom of manipulation is back on track, and that's what we've both experienced. I'm correcting the wrong assumption that there was no intention of revealing the truth. We have discovered the truth and I believe that this truth will prove itself. And why we reacted to this all together, because the president of the committee took over the role of prosecutor, judge and executioner, prepared, stuffed witnesses, brought witnesses here in secret. The second day, a witness came to testify what he heard about the need to say similar things. So, I mean, these commissions definitely don't make sense if they continue the team over.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50622	Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50623	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Here's a look at this I think is interesting, important, it's not even an overstatement because it seems to me that this might also be an opportunity, an opportunity for politics to be affirmed in a constructive, responsible and professional way. Because INA was the largest energy company not only of the Republic of Croatia but also of the largest energy company in the areas of Southeast Europe and therefore a detailed, professional, responsible analysis of all those who stand, sat in this commission with the help of all those who want to cooperate in order not to reveal the culprit but to establish why the Croatian economy is, and INA is a symbol of that economy, collapsed in the last 20 years. That's important, I'd say an important topic and a great opportunity for affirmation. Why do I say that? A month ago, one of my senior colleagues at an informal meeting on energy issues, I can tell you the name, academic Widowic told me about this. Cresso or Professor, it doesn't matter, I was one of the first energy ministers in this country in '91. For years, Hungarians have begged me not to be aggressive in taking over MOL by the INA. That fact, the finding shows what the relationship between the two companies looked like 20 years ago. What seems to be the relationship of power today must be one of the most important objectives and tasks of this commission. No more important, no more significant decision can be made in Zagreb but taken elsewhere. I am very glad that the first proposal regarding the mandate and the commission's task has been changed which was, I would say incorrect, unobstructed because dealing with only one time segment of everything that's been going on about privatising INA is not a good and quality approach and this approach is selective, the approach to fragmenting certain events, declaring these segments with absolute truth is something that we are faced with in many discussions not only in this House but also in Croatian political life. That reminds me very much of that story in '95, it doesn't matter what happened in '91, '92, '93. And '94. It's just what happened in '95. Therefore, the HDZ Club has proposed, which I hope will and will be accepted, to consider the entire course of the privatisation process of the INA everyone misses, all mistakes and all responsibilities and I think it is a key, important and most responsible topic. It really won't do us any good if in this commission's work or those sitting in it we're going to deal with individual charges in advance without sufficient documents, evidence. If this goes too soon, then the work of the commission is methodologically doomed to failure. In that past truck commission that I was sitting in, it was really in the first debate that it started to talk not about methodology, finding documents, analysis of documents, but about accusations. This is, in any case, an important lesson learned, and I hope that it will benefit all those who will sit in this new commission. Someone told me when I started reading the INA Privatisation Act, March 2002, about the following. It was already agreed before the law was written. I didn't want to believe it, I don't believe it. But when I started reading that law, then I changed my mind a little, and I'd like to point out some of the elements of that INA Privatisation Act that was done in 2001, adopted in 2002. What is it in this Privatisation Act perhaps a little unusual and deserves more attention when it comes to this commission? I will read the section relating to the protection of the interest and security of the Republic of Croatia. Protection of interest and security of the Republic of Croatia, Article 10 How the interests and security of the Republic of Croatia are best illustrated in this article: the Government of the Republic of Croatia can conclude with a strategic investor a contract on how to use voting rights from shares owned by the Republic of Croatia. So it is already beginning to think and formally adopt that the strategic rights of shares of the Government of the Republic of Croatia can be transferred or sold to the strategic partner. This is my interpretation now, but I will read again very clearly Article 10(3) as this law defends the interests and security of the Republic of Croatia. The Government of the Republic of Croatia may conclude a contract with a strategic investor on how to use the i.e. transfer of voting rights from shares owned by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This kind of opens the door and indicates that those who did this Law, who were on it, I would say were giving what they should not have given, but had this long-term scenario in their field of vision. Furthermore, as Article 11 defends the interests and security of the Republic of Croatia. I will read Article 11(1). "for a period of time, while the Republic is the owner of 25% and more of the INA shares, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will periodically and at least three months will report to the Croatian Parliament on the course of privatisation of the INA." The best way to defend the interests of the Republic of Croatia, as it seemed in reality, is a different story. But paragraph 2 says: "The report referred to in the preceding paragraph is a state secret." Fantastic. You should report to the Croatian Parliament on the course of the privatisation process of the INA, and you declare this process a state secret, it is clear that neither the transparency that the Croatian Parliament's reporting of everything that happened during the privatisation of the INA was, in particular, not a word, and these are some reasons that suggest that this law on the privatisation of the INA prepared then in 2001, 2002 opened a process that ended unfortunately with the situation that we are witnessing today. Instead of a real strategic partnership, instead of investing a strategic partner in modernising INA and modernising refineries, we are now close to almost one of the refineries being closed, that the INA market is reduced, that technological processes, quality competitiveness and competence, one part of the important in INA is marginalised and minorized, these are facts. Therefore, this commission's work is very important and deserves a joint effort without charges with one clear goal to determine why these processes have been opened, with whose interest and for what reasons. Today there were speeches about strategic planning, strategic governance, yes, some of them dreamed of it, but MOL was the first to abolish the sector for strategic planning and development because there is no strategic planning in more than one place in strategic management. To talk about all the other details of what the offers looked like, what the evaluations looked like, the INA values of Deutsche Bank, and many others, of course all that deserved attention. Finally, the offer of MOL 505m euros relative to the second offer of OMV is significantly higher and every serious company through... and everything else could assess what is a competitive and minimal price that has a chance of success. This offer of MOL, in addition to everything that is an objective part of the INA value at that time, contains something else that this Commission will have to deal with. So it's no exaggeration to say that it's an important starting point, it's the beginning of that process but it's not the end of that process, and I think we're going to look at together the entire process of privatising INA which unfortunately resulted in INA being the largest regional energy company in its state since 1991. The aim of the commission must be to ensure that the influence of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia with 44% of shares achieves the maximum management and maximum management of the company in the interests of the Republic of Croatia and Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50624	Thank you. Three replicas. First Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50625	Well, I would like to say to my colleague, Cosic, who has now really expanded all the topics that the commission should be dealing with, that there are very hot topics, one topic about reducing the value of INA, and one way to destroy INA transport, and that the business of transporting derivatives is to the selected private companies. I think it's been a big impact. Well, when we reduced the INA's value in that way, I'm asking why the INA prince's separation didn't add to Plinacru's warehouse around it. Because we should... for the price of it we have no private interest, there we have private interest, so we will destroy the transports. So, there's a whole series of questions that this committee will discuss with a lot of witnesses, and I think that although a lot of things were legal, we finally see, the law before or after shows one thing, and Daimler the other.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50626	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50627	Well, it's very short. Unfortunately, various interests were present during the privatisation process of INA, which is the normal and natural interests of strategic investors, the interests of INA, the interests of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the interests of different and interesting and political groups as well as the interests of non-transparent individuals, and perhaps even non-transparent institutional interests, because it is incomprehensible why the whole process is declared a state secret. It is not a contribution to what we want, full transparency, full responsibility in the common interest and the goal of never having such a failed privatisation process as the one related to INA ever happened in Croatia again.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50628	Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50629	My dear colleague, I share your call for research in fact the history of privatization of INA from those moments when this process should really begin, and that is from Udovic to our days, which you mention. It will have to be answered what happened in the 1990s from the moments that Udovicic warned you that Hungarians are afraid of taking MOL-A from the INA until in 2000 we find a company that is absolutely the biggest loser of all public enterprises, we get a company that generates losses, which has completely failed and before bankruptcy is about what can be found testimonials on the London Stock Exchange and which in 2003 comes out as the most profitable public enterprise in Croatia with large retained profits, with the beginnings of modernization. What was going on behind that? So, before and after that, the 1990s, unfortunately, were years to be reviewed, years in which, fascinated by the state, its creation and defence, we experience a complete devastation of the economy, robbing the general through privatization of small businesses to large businesses. What INA was in 2001 was only the result of the catastrophic management of the country in the 10 years that preceded it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50630	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50631	First, it's good to get along at the beginning, but unfortunately we can't agree with what you said at the end. Catastrophasic management is something that in this particular case indicates the most to begin with. The beginning is the moment when the criteria, standards, the course that we want to do and the way we want to do it. That at that time, when the law that has two and a half pages was passed, we made one more comprehensive, more detailed, stricter law, that we had far more serious access to the process of privatising the INA could have ended in quite another way. It is very important to understand all that was going on afterwards. Unfortunately, many have said that beginning was such that no other strategic partner ever thought of entering the second round in the privatisation of INA again. The privatisation of INA was completed at the very beginning of the provisions, contracts and, unfortunately, an unacceptable way of relations between the management and the supervisory board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50632	Mr. Representative Goran Maric, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50633	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You said that the beginning, or adoption of the Privatisation Act of the INA, was determined by a process that ran as it ran and ended as it ended. The process is unfortunately not over. He ran in a way that at least went to the hands of Croatian national interests, and he did not finish and there will still be a lot of things that will not go to the Croatian side either. MOL, using management rights all this time, has used it in such a way that the company has been brought in, that it has not technologically modernised anything, that it produces any more non-quality fuel, that it does not get oil from suppliers directly, but through the middleman several, which increases the price, that neither domestic producers obtain direct products, but organizes special businesses through which they re-procur and even become an inequitable generator in the Republic of Croatia. The process will take a long time. How it ends I don't know, but I'm afraid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50634	The gentleman's response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50635	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. I absolutely agree with what you said, the process has not yet been completed and much is going to happen in a way that will not contribute to INA. But that is why I said and therefore think that the key and most important task of this committee is to help strengthen this process and to make any further decisions to the extent that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can formulate them, defend them, to preserve the position of the Croatian stake in the INA as best possible. If this commission, however, does something else, has dealt with each other's accusations, then I don't think it really makes any sense. Croatia today, the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Croatian state still has a significant stake in the INA. This 44% share of quality management, quality government decisions, quality self-port of everything that will be related to further processes in INA can allow these 44% to be sufficient strength in INA so that Croatian national interests can be fully defended. And in that sense, I really think that all members of the commission in this strategic goal must take special care in the common interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50636	Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50637	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, first of all, I have to express my satisfaction that here we have agreed that we need an investigative commission and other words that everything that happened around giants, the former giant economy of the INA, needs to be brought into the light of day. So I'm going to start my presentation with a rough comparison. INA is in the Croatian economy what HTV is in the media. In the Croatian economy INA, HTV has been at the heart of political and financial interests not in 20 years of the Croatian state, but since I remember, and I remember the former state. So let me remind you that neither the INA problem began in the 1990s nor in 2003, nor in 2007, that the INA problem as a cutting point of political and financial interest began long ago in Yugoslavia, and let's just remember the Đurekovic affair, let's remember the sons of the then senior political officials who, through the INA abroad, founded large companies and today very comfortable on this account live. Let's remember that even the UDBA abroad issued murder warrants. The big economic political bite today came down to a very small snack and we are now discussing why it happened. It's good to discuss, and that's why I accept this commission, but I'm afraid our former giant is not going to help. I agree that it starts with the INA Privatisation Act because in those years 2003 and those who followed have actually done three damages to the INA. The first pity that it was given to a foreign partner at the time, which was already a competition in the sense that he was not interested in the development of INA as a producer, as a refinery activity, but was interested in creating a trade chain from INA, the chain of sales of its products, and it was the first strategic error. The second minus for INA was that with 25% and one share of ownership, it was actually a veto on certain strategic decisions, in other words the new strategic owner had more management rights than it would have been determined by the frameworks set out in the Commercial Society Act. The third unfavourable thing was a shareholder contract, which determined that, over the next 5 years from the date of signature, it was prohibited from 2003 to 2008 without the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of MOL to buy new shares. All I've said is just the beginning from which the low-rise followed, instead of the hillside of our giant, and it's good to have that period involved in the debate. What followed was the consequence of what I said, which is the change of ownership of the INA, is the result of the sharer's contract and the first privatisation contract, because when the five-year moratorium expired to buy shares without the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia then INA, or MOL then used and bought an additional 23% share. Whatever happens, I won't criticise or praise, let the commission say it, but surely we haven't done anything in recent years that would bring INA back to her firm feet. So let it be discussed, and let it be seen. But I'm asking a big question whether an investigative committee can contribute to the quality of the INA situation when we know there's a parallel process being conducted by competent institutions. I am deeply convinced that the investigative committee will only cloud the whole story because by nature things, the commission is the body of the Parliament, and Parliament is the political body, so by nature things from the factography will spill the problem into an area we call politics and politicizing. And that's why I'm afraid this commission that has an extremely difficult task is actually going to help, not help. In addition to that, I can provide some data. Let's say that the commission will not have to enter into OTP's credit, it has to enter the whole story about "Podravka" related to the possible return of credit to the INA shares, so it has to get into that problem they won't. I read in the media that only that part of the investigation and that part of the investigation already has a record of 10,000 pages. What the commission will do with 10 thousand pages of material, of course it will not get that material of the investigating bodies, but by entering the problem itself it will come to such a huge, wide, I would say endless problem that an investigative commission made up of not experts, but politicians cannot solve the problem within 3 months. It can politicize it, it can raise it to a new level of debate, but without arguments, and it can make it harder to finally and fully investigate itself. It's my deep belief, and that's why I think the commissions they have and the little political background aren't good if the investigation is launched. The second thing is that the investigation wasn't initiated. Then it would be a stimulant and a trigger to solve the problem, but a parallel investigation is being conducted and we're doing it in an affair truck, I don't think it's good for the final thing. Why do I think it's not good? Because you will not turn the commission into a conflict of two camps, you will not result in press conferences, statements, resulting in anything that will distract you with the scales of things and I don't think that's good. It is not good, and because of the experience that I have, as my colleague Stazic said, and I have an unpleasant experience from the same commission, it is really not good to be outvoted about this kind of material. It is really not good for most hands in the commission to form a conclusion that is based on more or less, and I would say on the argument we see through the prism of politics because we are politicians, not investigators. And the commission of trucks for me wasn't a good commission because it was politicizing, because it doubled, because we're safe who we were then majority that we were right, a separate opinion of the minority part of the commission thinks they're right, and we'll see a judicial epilogue. I wouldn't go through with my colleague, Stazic, because the trial is under way. I'm sure everything that's been said there goes in favor of our conclusion, you're obviously sure of the opposite. Since we worked for three months, we haven't cleared up the affair of trucks, we're not going to clear up the INA affair or the gas business affair or the OTP loan affair, we're just going to blur it out, because if we go that way, then I wonder why we're not setting up an investigation committee for Pliva, Pliva, whose 25% of the shares owned by the state are also gone, evaporated, or those shares paid HZZO's debt to the manufacturer in Pliva. Is that legal, is that wise, is that economically justified, is that smart? This is a political debate, and what had to be done had to be investigated whether it was all based on legal frameworks. We can establish a commission if we want to now for Excelsior, so we can establish a commission in both the end and the Croatian Telecom. I don't think that's a good way to go, I think this House should be conducting political debates about such problems if the investigative authorities fail, or if these authorities don't start what they're supposed to do, which is open an investigation into these problems. And that is why I conclude, I agree that the investigation committee is going, deeply convinced that it will not give useful results, deeply convinced that it will not give new moments, that it will not clear up the situation, that we are still going to cloud the whole thing, but I am still raising my hand for it because I am sure that the competent institutions are doing their job in parallel and I believe in their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50638	Thank you. One replica, Vice-President of the House Mr. Representative Josip Friscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50639	Mr. Hebrang, you, unlike the part of the debate I've been listening to, unfortunately one part I haven't been able to hear, but what I've heard has been said a lot, determined and warned whether and in what way the greater or smaller management rights are given. You've come to me to measure things. As it was managed by management rights regardless of one or the other, I certainly do not expect, and neither do you, that through the commission we will come to an end. Because in law, as counterpart Cosic said, reports were said to be secret. Then we hear on the street that we were getting oil or that oil was bought for us for 154 dollars, while it was on the market for $60. We've been put in a position where these minority states have to guess whether they're going to charge VAT or not, and we know it's an obligation, to make peace because it's counting on what's being charged. When we protect our national interest then we actually have to protect it in that part of which is our national good, gas and oil, and 60% of the gas we have from our own sites and we have managed to achieve just over 2%, close to 3% that belongs to those whose area it is and whose area it is in. And where it's with our neighbor, and part of the pool is common, there's 10%. I think that these are issues that all together and through committees, but also through other bodies I expect answers because that way we will contribute to the company through management, and this responsible management, we are returning to where it was and why we have asked for partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50640	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50641	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Vice President Friscic said in his replica one sentence worth repeating and remembering, which is the protection of national interests. If everyone were to start from it, no matter who was in power, no matter what political orientations, then we would have much more constructive discussions in this assembly because we wouldn't have to discuss the destruction that took place. And that is why I support that energy, gas business, oil business is one of the strategic national interests and that for this reason everyone who manages has responsibility for this must first look at these national interests. And so I ask the question, was it a national interest not to target the owner of the most important part when selling HT, which is cables? Was it a strategic state interest to sell a strategic package of Plive shares? Was it strategic interest to buy with a free contract fire trucks? I don't think so, and that's why I think we should discuss here in principle more about how to protect national interests. And especially now that we are facing a major challenge, it is the EU, and I think that we need to draw one conclusion from all of this, and that is, we should bring a strategy to protect national interests in every, economic and every other aspect. Because without it, such misunderstandings will be repeated indefinitely, and the danger of the friendly environment of the EU is precisely that the strategic interests of others prevail over our own.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50642	On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50643	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I answered the question after several discussions, especially after the last Mr. Hebrang, and I wanted to clarify some of the things that were already mentioned during the debate. The first thing that is incorrect is that the privatisation was made in 2003 when the government was technical. Absolutely not. Privatisation and decision to choose a strategic partner was made in 7 months 2003. So, almost 4.5 months before the election when the government couldn't be technical, because technically the government was only after the election was called. On the other hand, analysts at the time and people who followed the privatisation process said the price would be even higher if there were not so many limiting factors in the competition. Special attention should be paid to that too. It was known exactly what certain investors were going into. It was known that it would not be able to make a profit, but rather that INA’s gains would go into development. It was known that for five years without the government's consent, he would not be able to dispose of the shares. It was also known that they were not guaranteed a further purchase of shares over 25% plus 1. So all these elements were already known during the competition and during the course of the gathering of offers from interested companies. So they were known rights, but they were also known how much a particular company would get if it entered as a strategic partner. It was known that there would be 2 seats on the supervisory board and 2 seats in the administration. All these conditions were known before the purchase decision was made, i.e. the decision on who would be the one to enter as a strategic partner in INA. So much for transparency. That such evidence is also the resignation of Rosneft, who gave up his statement because there are no guarantees and there is no room for full download of INE from their side. So, one company of three that was interested gave up and there's a statement they're giving up for. There are two left, OMV and MOL. And the exact fact is that MOL offered 85 million dollars more. All of this was based on the INE Privatisation Act that was made in March and another thing that is incorrect, someone mentioned that the decision was not unanimously taken. She was brought in unanimously at a government meeting. And it wasn't the government's secret session, it was the government's public session. All this information must be known by Croatian citizens when assessing the privatisation of the INE. And another piece of information that must be clear to you when we discuss this is that the INA in the 3 years of the coalition government, from 2000 to privatisation, or the strategic partner in 2003, raised the value by 3 times, i.e. almost 4 or this 25 plus 1 share of $505 million to so much was estimated INA in 2000. Although, in the meantime, PLINACRO and JANAF were both singled out. So, in 3 years, the Ivica Racan coalition government came up with a price of 505 million dollars, at which the entire INA plus PLINACRO and JANAF were evaluated in 2000. That's enough talking, first of all, about transparency, secondly about how much the government has done, what the government has done, and what price has been given to the government of Ivica Racan for what it has sold. And all the conditions that were mentioned here as secrets were public earlier because Rosneft gave up and therefore issued a statement and said why he was giving up. So, so much for that job. And we need to know that, I don't want to be in further discussions, I believe there are more HDZ club people to bring in, maybe they don't know that information, but I needed to tell them not to waste time and say the wrong things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50644	Thank you. Two corrections. First, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50645	Well, this is what I'm going to call a slight correction to an incorrect quote, otherwise you could just call it straight. Look, I'll give copies if you don't believe where exactly, so I'll name him Drazen Budisa, who was then Deputy Prime Minister, publicly for the press, I have a copy of the paper, which he said against because he believes the government in the resignations of Ivica Racan at the time, has no right at a closed session to decide on the selection of a strategic investor company in INA. Please be nice and the deputy prime minister will then warn the government. I ask you nicely that you should not make such a significant decision, at a closed cabinet session in the resignation of the Ivica Racan. Okay, who was the vice president? ... Who? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Then Granic, let's go if that's how you're gonna do it if he answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50646	Okay. He's right, and the solvent's injuring the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50647	The moment of 209 was injured, so Mr. Kunst wasn't in politics yet, he was in the union business, and he just doesn't know... the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50648	Well, he changed that, so he corrected his position.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50649	Yes, but it is impossible for him to correct his position in a way to say it was Budisa, so it was Granic, so tomorrow it will be Marijana Petir. .../Speakers speak in the same voice./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50650	A fellow Maras is a fragile knowledge, a memory even more fragile. That's where the paper says on that piece of paper on the tile?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50651	Protecting and protecting everyone, and not just writing to them. But it's not my tile.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50652	... must have a telescope to see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50653	Yeah, right. Didn't I see what it says? I can take the word, because you haven't given me your word yet, so I'll wait for you to give me your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50654	With special pleasure, you hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50655	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, Mr. Vice-President, Article 209 objectively and Article 214, as well as Article 214, were injured. Mr Drazen Budisa was not a member of the government at the time of the signing of the contract on 17 July 2003. You have Mr. Kunst's laptop in front of you www.vesnik.hr/html/2003/07/17/ writes to you on the Internet what the government decided that day and who were the members, who discussed and who voted and what the result was. And two days later, it was an extraordinary session of the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50656	But a colleague is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. If my colleague Kunst was wrong about this, it was a correction to an incorrect quote, and you can't correct an incorrect quote in this regard. Besides, you know what theory you are here right now, I don't know whether you know it or not. Subjective reflection, objective reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50657	No, no, Mr. Vice President, if you'll allow one more. So Article 209. Hurt objectively because it was not the correct correction of the incorrect quote. Article 214 which speaks of insults I thought subjectively because it offends common sense to say for the third time that Drazen Budisha was in the government at the time and was not. The man was an opposition and negotiated with you that coalition of HSPDC-HSLS-HDZ I think.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50658	But you go around like a cat around a hot oatmeal this subjective reflection theory of objective reality. You're older than me, where does that belong?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50659	I have no right to have a word because I haven't answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50660	Don't give up your past. The way she is, she's ours. And Mr. Agent Andri Hebrang, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50661	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I subjectively feel that it is an objectively incorrect quote that my colleague Maras said, and that is that it was positive in the contract that was determined that the profits would go into development. And it really said that the profit would go into development, but it didn't say what development it was. So he went into the development of a trading network instead of developing refineries in the development of production. There was an investment but of course in the wrong direction. That's why there's another inaccuracies. A good price has been achieved, it's by the stock, but overall looking at the company for this reason I don't think it's true that this price in the global isn't good. That's my subjective attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50662	And Mr. Agent Daniel Srb.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50663	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So patiently waiting for an opportunity to say something about this topic, I must say that I am deeply and more concerned about where Croatia is going by listening to what is being said here and when it comes first to key economic operators who were once the pride of the Croatian economy when it comes to what Croatian strategic national interests are. Well, looking at this transfer of Parliament, I'm afraid that dozens of educated young people have made a decision today to leave Croatia. What was heard is actually terrible, because while one side practically invited her to lunch and ate soup, the other one ate the main dish. And the consequence is that Croatia has unfortunately introduced largely control over key energy resources. And according to this, he also lost a largely significant leverage of management of his development in the future. How did that happen? Who started it? This is perhaps less important at this point, it is important whether there is anything else that can be saved, whether the Government can exert certain pressure on the owners, because it is also the Government that makes the decision on the conditions of business in Croatia. Does the government have the strength and courage to do that? Does the Government have the strength and courage to engage in large energy projects and expose itself to the pressures of different stakeholders, lobbys, etc.? If it doesn't, then this country doesn't have a serious future. Then we will be poor people, people who will work under conditions that will impose others like here in this case when it comes to it. The same will happen, and if we just break up the pillars of Croatian statehood, our sovereignty because the debt will then decide what our salaries will be, others will make strategic decisions on the development of the Croatian economy. And this is where it happened. Any guesses, was the price like this or what? If the value of INA increased several times at that time from 2000 to 2003, then the sales, which was the meaning of what development followed, were there real protection mechanisms installed there. And they could have been, there must have been elements. And what later happened when the second government came, how could it negotiate with the owners, with partial owners, and through this influence the future of the company? What is actually spilling bile here today, a mutual accusation of who did what at some point actually for the consequence, is that we can't manage future, unfortunately, key energy projects. The construction of LNG terminals in Krk has been greatly slowed down or blocked by this situation in INA. Also, the issue of some key energy routes in which Croatia instead of using its geographical position, which has caused it to suffer so many times in the past to capitalise on the development of the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately there is nothing. Instead of opening up jobs in the energy sector, we do not have the courage and strength to engage in serious negotiations with investors who can open these jobs through investment. I have to say, in this whole process, I'm extremely concerned and not knowing how this is going to end. It also happens to us that unfortunately several times I talked about it and where there are geothermal sources they are not used because INA makes more money probably on Russian gas imports. How will it be in the future? It's going to be even worse, but that's not how it's managed by the state, and the question is actually where it's going together. What I'm looking for, what I insist on is a different relationship to key strategic interests and, when it comes to the economy because today's words have fallen and heavy words, betrayals have been mentioned, but when it comes to key national interests, someone else is. So what else can it be called? Well, that's an extremely dangerous thing. And where is this whole process actually going to end? Unfortunately, I must say that I expect first of all from the Government of the Republic of Croatia that our people are encouraged by showing that there is a perspective in Croatia and unfortunately this debate today has shown a different picture of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50664	Thank you. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50665	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I'm primarily interested in the question that was raised here by my predecessor, my Serbian counterpart, why the government then went to privatisation at all, which were the motives, which were the reasons, which motivated them to go right at the moment to privatise the INA. Well, maybe through the work of the investigating committee, we can come up with that knowledge. I'm sure the timing wasn't good because, as we could hear from their words, someone estimated INA to be $505 million in early 2000. But based on what, who was it that rated INA at $505 million to four times the value of SDPs in 2003? So the government didn't then announce the reasons why it was going to privatise INA, because the key element of the success of each privatisation is, of course, its timing. And in 2003, the decision was made by the Government in its resignation at a closed session. Furthermore, the government has publicly declared its position then as Racanov that the existence of a minimum of three offers is a condition for the sale of 25% plus one of the INA shares and has set a deadline for bidders to submit their binding bids. By the end day of the offer, we could already hear it, only the MOL that offered 505 million and OMW Austria that offered $420 million, so 85 million less than MOL. However, here it is interesting that Russia's Rosneft did not submit an offer but informed the Ministry of Economy that he was giving up the offer and that he was only interested in buying a package of 51% shares and knew Rosneft that according to the INA Privatisation Act that brought the Parliament and that the privatisation could not be privatised at that time more than 25% of shares plus one. So they knew. Now what's the reason they stalled until the last day, we can speculate. We can speculate that someone has deliberately kept them in the game in order to formally keep three offers in play because the government has clearly declared its position that minimum three offers must be a prerequisite for selling 25% plus one share. However, at the last minute the day before the last day Rosneft Russian quit. Whoever kept him in the game until that moment, of course this is an unshakable argument that he wanted to buy 51% of the shares because he knew from the Privatisation Act that was passed a year earlier, he knew he couldn't buy more than 25% of the shares plus one. What was the haste of Racan's government to sell the shares of INA sufficiently tells the fact that in a shorter time than 24 hours after the opening of the tenders, the government's Privatisation Council of INA met and chose the most favourable offer of that Hungarian MOL and proposed to the government to make a decision on the sale of 25% plus one of the INA shares at its session on 17 July. However, there is also a conclusion on the government to conclude, of course, a 25% plus one sale contract, to conclude so-called. the sharer's contract between the Republic of Croatia and the MOL and the signing of the cooperation agreement between the INA d.d. And MOL. Of course, despite opposition and the Croatian public, the government approved the conclusion of all three contracts. The key thing here is that the government was legally authorized to sell only 25% plus one share of the INA. However, from the text of these contracts that I was talking about, which are in line with potential strategic investors before their bids were adopted, in the opinion of prominent Croatian and foreign lawyers, the Government, contrary to the Law on Privatisation of INA MOL, made it possible to obtain disproportionate rights in relation to those who, as the owner of 25%+1 shares, may have in accordance with the Law on Commercial Companies. This claim is based on the scope of the rights left by the Croatian government to MOL, which concerns decision-making and management of INA. In particular, Article 73, under the name of the retained issues or issues for which the supervisory board of the signed shareholder agreement on the adoption of which the prior consent of the Supervisory Board is required, shall refer to the provision of the Statute of Article 19 from which it is apparent that some key decisions and business decisions in the INA require prior consent of at least 6 members of the 7th Supervisory Board. Taking into account the fact that you have two members of the MOL on this Supervisory Board, then it is quite clear that the strategic investor, based on this contract and the statutes, has the right to veto making the most important decisions within... as the approval of the company’s annual budget in relation to capital expenditure and the approval of any capital expenditure exceeding 10% at that time of the company’s current annual budget, the approval or modification of the company’s business plan, the establishment of any real estate insurance, etc. which exceeds 80 million kuna, sales, lease, replacement, transfer or otherwise available to any real estate or other assets of the INA Group which, according to the administration, is relevant for the operation of the INA Group, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, a large number of decisions and conclusions that were essential to the INA could not be obtained, so none of them could have been made without the consent of the members of the Supervisory Board who are in front of the MOL, so one of them. The analysis of the decisions taken by everyone is clear that in the future none of the relevant decisions in INA's business can be taken without the consent of MOL. There may be different interpretations of the provisions of course which we could listen to today from the SDP ranks, but it is indeed a fact that with this right the veto gave the minority shareholder too broadly from a quarter of the shares of the company whose sale is the subject of this transaction. This scope of the right of one shareholder is explicitly contrary to Article 211. The Act on Commercial Companies, which lays down the principle of equality and equality between all shareholders in the company, reads: Under equal conditions, shareholders have an equal position in society. Giving or handing over such large rights to MOL causes direct damage to other shareholders, both present and future, and this results from so-called "MOL". the accession allowance signed with the MOL, which provides for any new future investor, the buyer of shares in the future sale process of the remaining INA shares to be linked to an existing contract that the government concluded with the MOL without the possibility of amending any of its provisions, and which puts MOL automatically in a favoured position and the other shareholders in an unequal position. And besides, precisely because of this provision of INA stock prices, it then went down, or it could go down to the real value because anyone who was interested in buying other INA shares could not change anything from these decisions, which would mean that someone who has a 25%+1 share absolutely manages and has a veto on all decisions because nothing can be done without it or any conclusion or decision within the INA. So, by accepting such solutions in negotiations with MOL, the government is contrary to the law, playing its own decisions, MOL has actually given the right to buy the remaining remaining shares first. So, the Hungarians certainly counted on it when they offered according to what we could read and hear from individual actors in these transactions, it was reportedly offered almost $100 million for an additional premium. Someone needs to say if it's paid, when it's paid, at whose expense. That's what someone needs to say. This and this investigation committee should be established. Some of the participants said the management rights were paid and some said they weren't. ... That's how they're paid. We'll see. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Management rights and to whom they have been paid, through the price and how it will be determined and through the investigation committee I hope. So we can generally conclude that this entire transaction made by the Government in 2003... I know it's hard for you to listen, but here's a little more patience. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, the transaction was completely unfavourable for the INA and the Croatian state, completely unfavourable. She tied her hands to all those who came after the government because nothing from those contracts could change, as it was signed with the same MOL, nor with the possible purchase of a further package of shares, and it is certainly a transaction that has significant negative consequences for both the INA and the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50666	Thank you. Three replicas. First, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50667	Thank you very much. Well, buddy, you asked a good question why they gave up, I'd say, such management rights to MOL as if INA were their grandfather, so they could give it as they wanted. And then today they're laughing, they say, and now Budisa is no longer even though he was the Deputy Prime Minister, so he resigned, so the government was all left behind then, so he criticized it, so all the media transmitted it, and the media also said it wasn't unanimously deciding, so come on, they're mutating. But listen, it's normal that it's not normal for them to be the same as Sunny Hvar when it was an affair, the same story. How much they care about Croatia at that time is another issue. So they say, "Without a representative of the MOL, they couldn't decide what to do, so they couldn't decide what to say about state issues." And for state issues, what is the annual budget and capital expenditure, then the business plan, and the changes and terminations of the business contracts, and the prosecution, etc. So all the important decisions that blocked the company's work couldn't have been decided without an MOL's representative. And another important question. Look, instead of fighting that INA can hire new workers, they put one clause in the contract, the Croatian government is then committed to issuing visas and work permits to foreign workers. It means that MOL could have imported, most likely imported its workforce, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia took the obligation to issue visas and work permits to these foreign workers while our employees were out of work and waiting. It is only a contribution to how Croatian workers were dealt with and thought.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50668	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50669	Well, I agree, buddy. It is quite evident from what you have said and what I have already mentioned before, that much, much greater management rights are given than they belong to and under the Law on Commercial Companies, and therefore someone put himself in a favored position compared to other shareholders, which is totally unacceptable and not in accordance with the law. Of course, you also mentioned "Sun-Hvar" but we could say here is a new affair, or new light that threw the discovery of Daimler that he gave to Croatian officials for the conclusion of a contract for the purchase of 210 fire trucks in bribery. Can we come up with some similar facts about INA and MOL tomorrow? Here, Daimler himself announced that he had given state officials to the then government who had contracted with him that he had paid the bribe. And that's what he told the U.S. judiciary. It's not a spy, it's not a HDZ lie, not to mention a number of other affairs that rocked the INA at the time. I will only mention some affairs of Agromic, buying Iraqi oil from a Serbian firm at a price that is $680,000 higher than market prices. The Aurum Insurance affair sells shares and the insurance house of the then minister's sister. If he mentioned an affair of the white night, selling oil fields in Russia at a price far below the real value of the field. So, the mass of these affairs that rocked INA at the time might have wanted to hide by selling INA and finding so-called. A strategic partner.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50670	The answer to the replica was. And then there's Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50671	Well, here's colleague Frano Matušić touched one question that is crucial to me, which is why it was sold. And why it was sold in the last minute, the last quarter, so practically in the July month's compensation before the 2003 elections. Why was it sold under the conditions under which it was sold, which is a company that was not then on the verge of existence, so that it had to sell its management rights through the stock price. In fact, she was a solid stable company. Why was it sold in the last minute of the fourth play, so before the elections, and at a closed session of the government? There's a lot of questions going on. For example, why a new INA law has been adopted at the last session of Parliament in this meeting. I'm pulling the parallel again. I think the answer is only one. The reason for this bad sale of INA was to collect the budget. At that time, the deficit of the state budget crossed the six percent figure, then it was due to wake up to sell what was worth selling. And I remember, and with that, I'm going to finish my replica, and I remember the questions of a Hungarian fellow minister at the time who asked me why you sold INA to MOL, and we were just afraid that INA would buy a piece of MOL. It shows from that sentence that the transaction had no interest in preserving, strengthening the INA but simply patching up at the expense of the sale of Croatian national economic interests one budget which was in the deficit due to incompetence.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50672	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50673	Thank you. So I agree with my colleague Hebrang, with you, that the likely reason for INA's sale at that time, at that time, so before the end of the term of office of the then government was actually a budget building. Because let's just remember what the deficit was in 2003? So, created after that year in which the INA was sold and it's obvious that the obligations were too great and that the government was unable to deal with all the obligations it created alone but that's what the public needs to know. That should have been said to the public at the time, however, no one said it at the time. It is necessary to say today and to repeat to the Croatian public what are the real reasons. I hope the new light will throw away the work of this investigative committee. Of course I won't talk about these affairs anymore. I'll just say the following. One material called the black book, which suggests that there have been numerous irregularities, not to mention criminal activities in the INA was made and refers to the period until December 2003. This material was tried by Mr Letica on the agenda of this Parliament, however, that part did not go to a parliamentary debate, and what is important is that all these affairs are numbered in the document. I'm going to forward this document to the State's Attorney's office anyway, because I think it's important for the State's Attorney's office, and I think it's important to continue to act in this whole INA privatisation story.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50674	And Mr. Representative Krešimir Cosic. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50675	Here's the honourable representative, from everything you've said, it's becoming increasingly clear that INA's fate is practically determined by the 2002 Privatisation Act and the 2003 contract. And as a result, it is increasingly understandable and increasingly clear why the whole process of Article 11 of the Law was declared a state secret, and it is understandable why it was left out from the mandate of this Commission in 2002 and 2003, and why all the public and all the public attention should be directed towards 2008 and 2009. These fragmented images of one whole process are an unacceptable way of privatising INA, i.e. to look at the privatisation of INA. It is very important to see this key event and to well interpret it in order to understand everything that happened at that time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50676	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50677	Thank you very much. I didn't think I'd have to go to the pay phone again so soon, but I have to answer because a lot of things have been said after Mr. Matusic's debate with these few replicas. The first thing, I am glad that Mr. Matušić, during his debate, said the wrong fact, and then in the replica correctly. So it's not a technical government. The seventh month is not possible that it was the technical government since the election was at the 11th month. As far as transparency and the public are concerned, no state secret. The law was passed in this House, in the seventh month of the government's decisions, on the commission and debate again at the Parliament. So the decisions were made as transparently as possible, they were all addressed to them and the problem was that after 2003 it was defined by the contract that investments would be made after they were executed that the investment would be reported to this Assembly. Not a single report after what the Government of Ivica Racana gave on the privatisation of INA at the Parliament was not about INA 7 years in the Assembly, not a single word about the most valuable Croatian company, it was not submitted and it was not given to the public and then we can ask whether anyone wanted to hide and whether anyone cared at all about what was going on with INA. Seven years, no letters. And even when such big things were happening, as was the additional contract and the transfer of management rights to the strategic partner. The council's off, the public's off. When you ask why it went into privatisation, it's another thesis. The 2003 budget from the 11th month 2002 planned funds from privatisation, so the item within the budget was planned, 8 months, 9, 10 months earlier. No hiding, no sudden situation. Deficit, yes, deficit 5% in 2003, but growth 6%. Did you see what that deficit was going to? Was the road built? GDP growth 6%. Now we're going to have the same deficit and we're going to have a GDP drop. So clearly that the money that we have invested in the economy through the deficit at that time has led to economic growth, GDP growth. And that money wasn't spent in vain, that money went into something you can see, which made Croatia have had constant economic growth for three years, and unfortunately, the HDZ government didn't know how to use it. As far as this is concerned, this thesis is constantly established, the over-represented management rights of MOL in view of the Company Act. The MOL was neither guaranteed to go more than 25% of the shares, nor could it have had the shares, so what did we want from the gentlemen of the partners who would give the money and not have any rights. Who would invest $500 million without having a right and you've read well that they have no right to make the decisions you said, decisions that speak about when they have more than 10% of the company, so I guess they have a right to say if you think 10% of the companies sell what they think about it. Decisions to acquire more than 80 million kunas, but up to 80 million kunas under our control. Well, there's no such purchases, and it's mostly not that 90 percent of the business, and the purchases are the exception. You mentioned some other things, business, company registration, so normally that the partner has the right to decide and when you talk about it it's definitely not true, MOL had the rights that he liked because he was a partner and what he invested 500 million kunas, although he bought shares, he did not enter the INA money, but bought and gave to the Croatian government according to the budget of the planned funds from the privatisation of INA, but he entered with his 505 million dollars, which he should not have particated in the decision. There's too many two men out of seven on the board of directors. What do we have today? Today we have the same share in ownership, and Croatia has nothing from management. So what would you call it, Mr. Matusic? What's the situation today? At the time, MOL gave money and had some rights, and today Croatia and MOL have equal shares, and Croatia can't do anything. I said up to 10% of the ownership of MOL can invest nothing from year to year if it wants to sell, it can pass on to the company after 5 or 10 years only for wholesale fuel, it does not have to invest anything and Croatia is not wondering about it, and Croatia now has 44% of the ownership. Well, that is, when you mention such things, then you deny your position, because if then 25% of MOL could have participated something, Croatia now can't do anything with it, and that's what you agreed to. The HDZ agreed that Croatia has no management rights in the INA, so please, we are talking about a situation that Croatia has totally pushed out of the story, from INA's fate, from the management of INA's fate. What is important to say, Croatia is privatizing to the INA at that time, no one has planned to go back into further privatisation in 5 years, but to invest together from profits in the modernisation of Croatian refineries. The idea was to form INA as a regional player, sell its derivatives in Serbia, Bosnia and cover the whole area, and therefore investment was needed in INA. Unfortunately, this was not happening after 2003, and it is clear who was responsible for it. You know who was responsible for that. If it had happened today, INA wouldn't be in a position like this. If MOL agreed to give money, not knowing whether there would be a chance at all to get a bigger share after 5 years, knowing that it would not be able to get money out of INA because of what investment must go away, they agreed, how you can claim that this idea and privatisation was questionable and that someone did something non-transparent, in front of the entire Croatian public. On the other hand, and the price they gave at the time was not stimulating to report to other companies that were then involved in the business. And when that price is converted to today's price it's 50% higher than what today would be to sell that part of INA on the market. So please, when you talk about privatisation from 2003 to take all these facts into account, not to draw your conclusions that have nothing to do with anything, analyze the Trade Society Act, analyze some things that can't be analyzed without seeing the moment where it all happened together, and what was the idea of what to do, unfortunately because of the authorities that came after 2003, and none of it happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50678	Thank you. Three corrections. First Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50679	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague was wrong that in 2003, the deficit was 5%, it was 6.7%. That's a significant difference. A significant difference. Second colleague, you should at least explain why the then government decided to sell the INA to a strategic partner, not by privatising through the IPO, through domestic and global markets. Why didn't you say that? Why? Why didn't you go in a transparent way of selling shares? You didn't answer why not, why you didn't have at least three offers, and she swore to the government that three offers would be a prerequisite for selling 25% plus one share. And favoring absolutely that someone who has 25 plus one share to decide, cooperates on everything and must give consent to all major and key decisions, to all key INA decisions, to all key INA decisions from the work plan and beyond.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50680	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50681	It's not true that the thesis is twisted, says MOL had the right to decide. So you know what's right to decide? Decision-making, here we now decide the voting rights of the majority, so one democratic decision-making procedure is respected. MOL had a real veto. And that's the problem that you didn't care that the Croatian state couldn't decide without the consent of the representative of MOL. So, the Croatian state that had the majority stake in INI could not decide, and you boast that MOL could decide. And the Croatian state as the majority owner could not decide because if it did not give consent to the representative MOL. That should worry you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50682	Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50683	Well, here's what I'd like to remind you of. The 10th paragraph 3 of the already existing management rights which MOL acquired by contract are planned to expand. They plan to expand by then in 2003. The government of the Republic of Croatia can conclude with a strategic investor a contract on how to exercise voting rights from shares owned by the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore appropriate to extend existing management rights which have been unusually large compared to shares of 25 plus 1 shares already in that article. Therefore, the design of the law itself and the contracts in the beginning determined the fate of the privatisation of INE in the further course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50684	Mr. Representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50685	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I personally support the formation of the Investigative Commission to establish all the circumstances and all the facts regarding the privatisation of INA, and all the circumstances and all the facts regarding all the contracts signed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the MOL. I'm not as skeptical as some of you here who have pleaded to the role of this committee. I think there are enough professional people in this House that the committee will respond and the demands that will be put before it. A colleague, Maras, pointed out here several times that the privatisation of INE was in the most transparent way possible and that she was well, was for both Croatia and INI and employees. Personally, I don't think anything can be good for any country that sells companies of strategic and national interest, which sells out infrastructure, forests, water, energy potentials, etc. And what's not good for the state is not good for the citizens of that country either. What's not good for a hive can't be good for a bee either. Personally, I don't think the sale and privatisation of INE was in the national interest of the Republic of Croatia. That's my personal attitude. But I would like to take advantage of the occasion and explain one concept that was initially imposed, which is that the customer is a strategic investor. When it comes to strategic investment, it should be clarified that the concept of investment, that economic investment means investing material values today in the future and the expected positive effects of increased production in the future. That means investing in investments. And the Nobel laureate, Professor. Samuelson, around the world at all colleges in his basic economic textbooks, is learning the difference between the financial term of investment and the economic term of investment. From the point of view of the economic purchase of shares is not an investment. Therefore, it should be made clear that MOL is not a strategic investor but is a stock buyer. That, by any chance, MOL 505 million dollars or a billion dollars had been introduced into the core capital of INA d.d. and thus increased the share capital, and for the amount of that increased share capital... The new shares and he became the owner of those shares would then be a strategic investor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would also have to clarify the concept of a social contract mentioned here in the agreement on the purchase of shares that it will be brought to the main assembly and that it will be entered in the Court of Justice register of the Trade Court. Although the social contract is nowhere to be found because there is only a bond between shareholders. Well, it is known, although the concept of a permanent social contract is read, that the social contract can only be when it comes to limited liability societies, and not when it comes to stock companies. And I don't understand how such a thing can stand in these very important contracts for the Republic of Croatia. And by reading all these agreements on mutual relations between shareholders and changes and everything else, they can't even be social contracts anymore, they remind me more of partner contracts than of a social contract. It is not usual for a 25% plus 1 share to have as many management rights as MOL had after purchase. Although it is also common to give management rights at a premium. For example, at the same time as the Government of the Republic of Croatia sold the MOL 25% plus 1 share in another company, 49.95% of shares were acquired and 49.95% of the shares of a large company had no rights in governance. Here are the criteria for how they have ruled over all these years of loneliness to this day. The buyer has obtained a disproportionate right of management in relation to ownership of shares. And what did we get? We got the INA which at the time the first package of shares was sold, according to the contracts, all agreed obligations to suppliers, all liabilities to the state. And today we got an INA that owes the suppliers, which owes the state and has become one of the main protagonists of insolvency in the Republic of Croatia. We got an INA that's making a loss, so all that theory that the profits are going to be reinvested into the water because it's gone. INA is not modernizing. We also got to know one very important thing that isn't everything that's in foreign hands. If he wasn't such a great management if he came from abroad because if he did, then INA would be doing different jobs. INA management today is an example that should not be in the modern market economy. Because of these inconsistencies, it is necessary to establish an investigative commission. Let it determine all the facts, let it determine all the circumstances and let the public know from the beginning of the privatisation until today what has happened. It's objective to show everything that's been going on. And I look forward to the fact that they will establish an investigative commission. In particular, such commissions could be established for Pliva and Privredna banka Zagreb and for TDR and for HT and Zagreb banka which has 10 times more assets than INA. A great German writer and philosopher, about 230 years ago, said, "I don't know what I would give if I knew who the works that were done in public were made for my country." I've been asking myself that for 20 years. In the processes of conversion and privatisation, the only things that were known were many agreements, and no one who made the deal fell. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50686	Two replicas, Mr. Representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50687	Here's a esteemed colleague, I think your dilemma MOL buyer or MOL strategic partner deserves special attention. We'd be very glad to see what was going on, talking to the media, MOL being a strategic partner, MOL being a strategic investor. The objective of the strategic partner is to increase market share, strengthen competitiveness, strengthen competence, strengthen research, new wells, etc. This is the goal of the strategic partner. INA was already a representative, strong, energy company at the time. If there was a strategic partnership with MOL then INA and MOL would really have a far greater regional impact than it is today. Unfortunately, it's turned into a zero-sum game like it's popular to say... games, as much as one gets so unfortunately another has to lose. I think it is very important that this is a detailed analysis not in the interests of SDP or HDZ but in our common interest, because this strategic partnership did not happen in either the HT or Pliva, or the INA, and I hope that we will learn some important lessons if another company in the energy sector ever privatises, that it has the basis and characteristics of a healthy strategic partnership. But in order for a strategic partnership to happen, there must be a quality, competent people who must lead this process at all levels, at company levels, with full support, quality and competent and professional state institutions, and I believe that this may happen in the interest of Croatia's economy someday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50688	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50689	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Cosic, you're right. The HT column is also not a strategic investor and very often the Croatian public is deceived with this very nice economic expression of strategic investment. And they're mostly just buyers. For example, strategic investment is if a new buyer buys new technology and enters into the fundamental capital of that society that technology. If MOL bought an oil find with its own money, put money into INA's core capital, he'd be a strategic investor. He would also be a strategic investor if he directly cleaned the money by increasing the underlying capital as well. But what society buys, what society produces, what society invests, it's not a strategic investment of the buyer, and that's what we often hear on all the mouths of many great directors and managers as the new owner invested strategically. If the company invests it, it's not the new owner. It's the company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50690	And Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50691	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to thank my colleague Marić for interpreting a whole series of terms and concepts that are being talked about here all day, during the debate and it is a shame that these SDP youth, or young economic experts, did not attend this part of the lecture they could hear here. It is even more unfortunate that you were not in the first part of this session this day in the debate, and I believe that much would be clarified right through the interpretation of the concepts we heard in your presentation. And I want to share this consideration of the energy sector. We had the opportunity to hear from our friends from countries such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia and some others who come here on various boards in the Croatian Parliament that the biggest mistakes and failures are precisely in the privatisation of the energy sector and suggest and give us suggestions on how we should not repeat these mistakes during Croatia's entry into the European Union and the privatisation of the energy sector, or strategic partners that can emerge from the European Union framework as interested investors and partners in Croatia's energy sector. I believe that we will be much wiser in choosing these partners in privatising the energy sector than we were in privatising INA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50692	Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50693	Thank you very much. I was obliged by my colleague, Huška, to explain these terms because it is often really manipulated by these statements. And we can't and can't often hear how the strategic investor bought Dukat, the Zagreb Business Bank or anything like that. And that's not true, from an economic point of view, that's not true. Although those involved will come forward and say that I may not know about this subject enough, because they measure knowledge in a way that as much as you've damaged the state and used that private company, you're more capable and you have greater knowledge. And the more you protect national interests, the more ignorant you are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50694	On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50695	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here we go back to theory a little bit and it's best to send the wrong messages with your theory. It is not a strategic investor issue, but there is a strategic partner and there is a financial partner. So when we say that oil companies are entering the INA, then they're strategic partners because they know the job they're going into, and as we have the Sunny Hvar, we didn't want the Chatjez who knows the job but we decided about the financial investor some funds from Britain. So the question is whether we're going into privatisation with people from work expecting to replace administration, politics and contribute something more because they know business or we're going to give it to money-only financiers. Therefore, there was no investment in Croatia, very little. Why? Because the state was selling its stakes but it matters to whom she sold them, to people who know work or to financiers who have a completely different interest. So I think that's the explanation you were supposed to give, and that's not the explanation that says whether or not we wanted to invest in the INA. INA was a company that had positive results, enough funds to invest and had to be easily privatised. And we can moralise here whether the Republic of Croatia is a country that is rich and has solved its basic problems and its basic problems are pensions, its fundamental problems are health system and social issues. No, we haven't solved them. Can we just get them on credit? Well, obviously we can't. No one will lend you your dues, your costs of transition, but you have to invest something, and that's where we can outwit ourselves politically if we're going to privatize, whether we're not privatizing, whether we're just on loans or vice versa. And that's what we're different about. ... That's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Prodo.. And you've reached 44 billion credits, so it's unlike a coalition that has reached 20 billion euros with 10 billion euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're from 20 to 40. But we can talk about it as much as you want. Therefore, the basic Croatia is a poor state, has not passed the transition processes and the costs of transition are high. We are in debt with one piece because we are still spending more than we do annually through the budgets, and part of this is necessary to cover privatisation revenues. That's why the state sells. Whether you accept it or not is up to you to politically show your responsibility and say what you want. Now back to the MOL question. Listening to you today I conclude MOL is a bad business partner to the Republic of Croatia, bad. A wrong strategic partner, a strategic partner who did not aim at investing in INA, the development of INA, the positioning of INA, has been selected. Therefore, I would say an unacceptable business partner listening to your debate today. Maybe I don't have to agree with you, maybe I don't have to agree, but if that's the fact that you're pointing out as parliamentary advocates of the majority, then I'm asking you the question of who made the decision on the sale of shares of defense attorneys, the defense fund. They don't belong to you or us. If you'd sent such messages to the defenders, they'd have sold the shares to an unwanted strategic partner. Do you believe that the defenders would betray us, that the defenders would sell their national interest to whoever destroys INA because of their 5 kunas? Is that what you think? I don't think defense attorneys would do that. If the gold MOL had paid them, they wouldn't have sold it. And why did they sell it? Because Prime Minister Sanader said the opposite of what you're saying today, that MOL is responsible for the company, that he invests in INA, that he's leading a great policy, that he's an excellent business partner, and that's why the defenders decided to sell their shares, that's why. Therefore, neither HDZ nor SDP, defenders, did continue privatisation. But could the defenders have listened to what you're saying today? Because if what you're saying is true today, we all agree that MOL should leave Croatia, we all agree. We don't need a MOL like that. A strategic investor who destroyed INA, turned INA into a store, turned INA into a gas station, and you'll let it be sad, you're ashamed to go to INA gas stations. No refineries, no investment in wells, no oil investments. See, that's what our interpretation is about. Whether part of the Croatian side carries a burden of responsibility for such a situation in the INA, that is what we want to say. Is it just MOL or is it still the Croatian side that had most of the supervision, the majority of the management and should not have allowed INA to come to the opposition, should not have. In 2008, the biggest losses in INA that destabilised INA. You know why? Because the purchase of oil was not done by people in MOL or MOL's people in INA, Croatian members of the administration worked. All that we know, you know, and they've created losses of several billion kunas on transactions around us. But we want to say it's MOL's fault. But if MOL is guilty, if we now conclude that MOL is guilty, then we must suggest to the government that he must terminate the contract. You know, it's a little unusual for you to claim that you had to continue the privatisation process. Well, answer the government's responsibility to make sure with a MOL like this, with an enemy like this who entered the INA as an enemy, we can continue our contract. Then I would just remind you of a very difficult contract with Enron the coalition government inherited, we interrupted him. Shall we talk about Bechtel? We interrupted him. It wasn't the only contracts they broke. That state also knew how to pay for the damage to the interruptions and pay for the damage to the interruptions. But you will allow, these damages are not like when the enemy takes over an energy company and destroys an energy company and no longer invests in rigs or refineries. But you see, just to refresh your little memory, it's interesting to invest in the refinery suddenly moves when MOL gets huge powers in INA management. What is, is, of course, extraordinary investment in Sisak, remarkable in Rijeka, but not deep. We will get the euro5 at last because the refineries will be able to produce the euro5 but once MOL has taken over the majority investment. Did you have any interest in that? That's what we're talking about. How much is the responsibility of our people, citizens of Croatia, Croatian representatives, government representatives for this situation in INA, you do not care. It's all MOL's fault. So somehow the conclusion of this House is that it's MOL's fault, let's talk about breaking up the partnership with... Although you've gone too deep, but I'm also asking you again, I'm going to ask the defenders how you could sell 10% to your enemies, they would never do that, surely never. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But her Prime Minister Sanader told another story. What's the true story, yours or Sanader's? On the basis of not only the message of Sanader, the Croatian Government, chaired by Ivo Sanader, was the message to be sold to defenders, these are extraordinary partners in the Republic of Croatia. That's it. It'll be interesting to find out what our MOL partner is like, because that's what our MOL setting should be about. But I must say, personally, I share that the biggest responsibility on the Croatian representatives in the Supervisory Committee and the Croatian representatives in the management that had led to the concern that the refineries were modernising as it was written in the contract. In 2005 and 2006, we were supposed to have two of Europe's most modern refineries. It is written in the contract, which should have been taken care of by members of the Croatian government in INA. Turns out they were disabled by MOL. Let's at least try that part to get to the INA. But I repeat, the greatest value is to estimate that MOL is the enemy to leave Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50696	Thank you. A few corrections. First, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50697	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to correct four of my colleagues' claims. First, I was texting the theory, and you just said MOL was a strategic partner. So he's a strategic partner, but he's not a strategic investor. I was talking about a strategic investor, he didn't. Secondly, you said that the Croatian state is poor. That's not true. Many poor people live in Croatia, Croatian citizens are poor, but there are those whose property is just proportional to the foreign debt of the Republic of Croatia. Third, we find the MOL guilty. No one here has ever found the MOL guilty. And you said the fourth, no one said MOL was the enemy. That's not what anyone said, either. It's just all the investigative committee needs to determine how MOL acted in all this.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50698	Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50699	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I would have to correct, fellow MP, your claim that the external debt made by the SDP during the reign was not significant compared to other meanings and you relativated it, so that's incorrect. So the SDP's government has made more foreign debt than the Republic of Croatia has taken over external debt from the former Yugoslavia and spent on defence of the state. That was really embarrassing. On the other hand, you told your colleague Maric after his very correct discussion that he sent the wrong message or I don't know what. I absolutely reject it, it's completely incorrect, and you know that the worst thing is if one MP in the Parliament says that one police director is a coward, and that the minister is a spy just because he opened an investigation into the party where he belongs. It is the worst possible message a representative in the Assembly can send to the public. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50700	And Josip Djakić, the correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50701	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm going to correct my colleague Linic's quote where he hardened and wanted to manipulate the words to reverse the things they wrote in the 2003 contract. In fact, it's incorrect that it's a strategic partner and it's a financial partner. The contract clearly states that it is a strategic investor if you read it correctly. And secondly, Croatian defenders spoke to the fund manager and management board of the fund unequivocally made the decision at the best time to save the fund, to ensure its continued work and survival, to ensure 30,000 scholarships, to ensure that all those who decided to sell it, and we did so when the stock price was the most favourable for us. I'm a member of the trust management board, thank God that's what I decided because we couldn't have done otherwise, given that you gave the powers of the 2003 contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50702	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50703	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect, already Mr. Maric claimed, that one of us said that MOL was an enemy and that it was an enemy takeover, that MOL was responsible for everything. No, we warn that you are guilty of making such contracts with MOL in 2003 that you tied your hands to the INA, you tied your hands to the Croatian state owned by INA. You gave them rights that they shouldn't have belonged to, that's what we've been talking about all day. And do not attack Croatian defenders that they are responsible for something in this process of selling INA shares. Don't do that, you've already done enough evil to them with your policies from 2000 to 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50704	Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50705	Thank you. counterpart Linic said the defenders were selling shares because Prime Minister Sanader told them. That's not true. The defenders sold the shares for some reasons that are truly justified, of property nature, and we know that the defenders in the most part sold the shares because part of the media made a special pomp and panic that they spread among the defenders to go for the sale of shares, that the shares were losing value, that the defense fund was failing because it wasn't true. The false information did not come from this side of the council in Parliament, it is known where this information came from to the media and why it was panicking among the defenders. But thanks to the wise policy and the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Fund, the fund has been preserved, the shares have increased their value and all those who stayed in the fund today have multiple benefits from it. And I want to correct one more quote, my colleague Linic is talking about impellation. This isn't an impelation today, this is a proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee as far as I know on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50706	Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50707	It may be necessary to correct the whole context of what you said because none of us said, none of us claimed that MOL was guilty, that MOL was not a good partner, but we were talking about the non-acceptability of the Privatisation Act, the non-acceptability of the contracts that left MOL enough space to manage and do with INA as it did, which was not in the interest of Croatian citizens, INA and Croatian energy security. Therefore, you have misread all the allegations, all the talks, all the statements of HDZ representatives, and this is not a good indicator before the work of the joint commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50708	And Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50709	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I would correct one spoken fact which is actually the thesis of a whole ten-minute speech, which is that HDZ representatives said MOL was a bad strategic partner. It's simply not true, because we haven't already talked about the bad deal that was concluded with the MOL based on the 2002 INA Privatisation Act and that the bad contract that secured MOL's position, the management position that is disproportionate to its role and its share in ownership, and we still don't know and that's why I'm asking the promoter here to finally make it clear whether the management commission of the strategic partner is finally being paid. And if she's paid where that money is, because it's not even members of the Ivica Racan coalition government who can't agree on that fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50710	Mr. Representative Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50711	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, obviously, the request for an investigative commission to examine the privatisation contract is like this, as presented here, I think we have agreed that this investigation committee will have to work. But it is interesting that we have not heard a single objection to the objectives, or questions that this investigative committee should examine in the debate today. We heard it's now, so there's no objection. There are several indents of those questions that need to be examined by the Commission, among other things, making MOL more manageable than usual for strategic partners with approximately the same share. So that's not what we're talking about. That's where we agree that we should examine it. We also agree that the privatisation process did not involve another interested company that needs to be reconsidered as well. So, nothing is disputed about this request and the questions that an investigative committee, to which an investigative committee should give an answer. And then it's amazing if we agree that these questions need to be discussed how that we immediately concentrated on however much we try not to say that MOL is not the enemy. But here in your debate it was clearly said that in these seven years since privatisation, since 2003, the INA has been reduced to point stations, to be reduced to sales. If it hadn't been for investment, there was no investment in refineries, and that was visible from your discussions. Read the logs and you'll see what you've said. This means that MOL is, however, an enemy in some way, but look at the Rijeka refinery until while the privatisation contract and the share contract have decidently established that the reconstruction and modernisation of the Rijeka Refinery should be completed by 2006 and 2007, respectively. But by talking to the INA people both Croatian and Hungarian representatives in the Urinj refinery in Rijeka, we found that not all the blame for some MOL who did not bring money and who did not want to invest. However, it was stuck somewhere in that majority part of the supervisory board that gave the Croatian part of the supervisory board the conditions for doing something in INA in due time. And it's interesting that in the Refinery of Oil in Rijeka here in the last year an intensive reconstruction of the oil refinery has been launched. Whether it will be done as the citizens of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and the town of Bakar are seeking to be more environmentally acceptable than is now as a side product and revitalisation something else envisaged about it, according to this. Obviously, it means that for all these years, seven years since privatisation, seven years since the changes in stock contracts need to be discussed. I'm sure then that the commission that's founded on these points as it's decided here will say, and then we'll see if it's worth privatising to the INA in the way they privatized it. Were we skilled enough in this privatisation to protect our own state interests? Whether we had the right people in the company that could have done this and the government of the Republic of Croatia's instructions to this or those, whatever. But I think that because of what is rolling and good after 7 years in public today, which is that after the outcome of the almost independent negotiation, I will not tell this government or the Minister of this Government and MOL about the new share agreement, and that the mold with 47% of the shares is held by almost absolute management rights in the company, while the rights of the Croatian Government which still owns 44% of the shares are significant, or almost nothing at all. The question is, is that a good thing? If the investigative committee says that the money we get from MOL is a strategy that MOL says will do both to the INA and to the refinery and to the oil trade and business around, the gas business itself, if it says it's okay then I don't think we should argue this badly before the investigative commission under the points set out here is that its opinion before this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50712	On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50713	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I'm saying after this debate, I have to say that we're a little confused as legislators. INA is a merchant, a bad trader, INA has destroyed refineries, INA is not investing in oil fields, these are findings in INA. So we conclude that INA is a company that is no longer the energy interest of the Republic of Croatia, not a company of energy importance, and now we just have to ask ourselves who is responsible? Who's responsible? Until yesterday, today at the session you keep saying MOL, because some contract gave him the right to destroy INA and now we see, a colleague of Denona is talking about what's being invested, when he invests in refineries, and yet all of a sudden you say MOL is not the enemy, not bad. Now I'm asking again if the INA problem is her business? You just yelled at the biggest debtor, you don't pay taxes, INA doesn't pay taxes, who's to blame? You said MOL. It's you in your discussions. Who gave those powers to MOL? She gave him a former coalition government with a contract. Those are your words. Now I say again if it is a strategic partner or investor who, using the INA contract, reduced it to a clean trader, what is even worse on the importer of derivatives, importers, the socialist INA was supplying the whole of Yugoslavia. The whole of Yugoslavia, and here INA imports most of the derivatives, no more derivatives, no more products, little products. If he doesn't pay taxes, if he doesn't pay suppliers, and I guess we'll estimate that such an investor, such a strategic partner who should have been developing a job, because he knows business, is not the interest of the Republic of Croatia. We just said that as really those who we propose to clear up what INA is and what is a strategic partner and who is responsible for this situation you once say MOL is not, MOL is wonderful and wonderful. In your replicas, you've now stated it, it's not the enemy, it doesn't do any harm, it's good. Now, you see, we have to agree on that, we have to send very clear messages as a Parliament, we have to send it, whether the INA company is desirable, whether it's well organized, and if it's not who's responsible. Well, you see, in the SDP, we consider, given 75% minus one share, Croatian supervision of the Croatian administration. And they are the ones who led to two refineries not being modernised, not to continue research in the Adriatic Sea, not to continue research in Panon. Yeah, that's what we think. You consider MOL and forgive me even though I say after the replica, I don't know what you think anymore, and then I guess the commission will determine. But there's something else about those, where there's a difference, as well as... I believe that Croatia is poor because it has not solved the basic problems of the pension system, the health system, the social system, is always the question of how to raise funds when you spend more? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah, we're on our way to privatisation incomes, and credits, and you see you're headed for big loans but you're also profiting from a company that was supposed to go to invest in the state budget. And you did that, and that, you shared the profits instead of investing. Is that what we're gonna talk about? And that's why we say let's say why INA is a company like this today. Let's go. Why was 2 billion losses made in 2008? But of course I want to say two words about gas here on behalf of the promoter. Gas. This Croatian Parliament is a quality law on, defined who deals with transport, who deals with storage, which are obligations, we have defined all of this. Based on this, the regulatory body has also given authority to who should deal with it, but suddenly over the past few years we come up with the idea that it is not good for INA to manage the warehouse, although it manages as we have prescribed and we have given the possibility that the private company is in the business. We also know from two, three last years of the gas crisis that we have insufficient storage capacity. It is expected that a company that is 100 percent owned by Plinacro will go into construction of a new warehouse, because we need a warehouse. No, I don't. We're making a decision, the government's making a decision. We're going to buy a gas warehouse... , not just a gas warehouse in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's all gas supplies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For what? We estimate that this is a bad, run-in business, we need a new warehouse, not to buy an INA warehouse, because that warehouse will solve the problem of insufficient amounts of storage space for the needs of the winter, one warehouse will not solve, regardless of where it is. Gasacro, which comes in with nearly 500 million kunas to buy a warehouse, can no longer invest a new warehouse, no money, no financial potential. What again, and Croatia with insufficient storage areas welcomes a new winter. A new winter. True builders have no place to work, it's stopped and unfortunately a good part of the slowdown, the road construction, we didn't go to the railroad, and instead of giving 500 million to build storage spaces, we're buying an existing warehouse. Still, besides buying a warehouse, we don't buy gas. What does that mean? Gas station INA's gas. INA's gas. There's no more money. Is that a well-conceived job? Is that so-called. Gas business and independence in the gas business? No, those are your bad moves. Bad moves, but it was again agreed with the Hungarians, with the MOL for which there is a good part of today's debate said it is not a quality strategic partner. Yeah, and that's the topic we really need to talk about. Why didn't we go to the gas building, apologize, gas storage? Why didn't we hire Croatian builders? Why didn't we arrange additional amounts and secure gas supplies in the country? Yes, the SDP is interested. Where are the strategic mistakes of the Croatian government? I hope that, given that this is one of those topics, and the commission on that will be able to say something.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50714	Thank you. Two corrections. One, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50715	Well, my colleague Linic has been trying incorrectly thesis all the time and wants us to say that MOL is bad, how management of INA is catastrophic, they are all guilty of today's situation in INI. And all we want to do is point out that the management rights that MOL received in 2002 are disproportionate stakes in that company. And that this particular management rights have blocked the management of the INA, and normally they have the consequences of today's state of affairs as it is in the INA. And that's the only thing that's true. And now, I understand this handsome and very skillful attempt to twist those thesis. And that's okay, on your part, I have nothing to say, very skillful. I congratulate you on that, but that's not the point. The point is, what I just told you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50716	And Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50717	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm going to correct one inaccuracy and an absolutely false claim saying 500 million shouldn't have been invested in the underground storage of the gas around. The underground gas storage "Circular" is actually a strategic project of the Republic of Croatia and the INE itself. And our builders aren't the ones working underground gas storage if they should know that at least. It is a professional job done by mining and oil workers and underground warehouses are done by drilling at 2.3 km below ground and thus achieves the possibility of storage of gas coming from Russia or from some other countries. So, 500 million kunas could only INA with its own furniture invest, drill and build new warehouses. Either PLINACRO could have paid INI or MOL. So, not our builders because they're not professional in the business.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50718	Mr. Representative, Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50719	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have found these days with an unhindered enthusiasm that my HDZ colleagues will support this request for the establishment of the Investigative Commission, and also, I cannot say unhindered, but I am pleased to accept their position to consider this issue since the start of privatisation, since 2003, and so on. So, on 19 March 2002, the Croatian Parliament was most of the votes of the then ruling coalition that your current partners, then HSLS and HSS, and then you can ask them how it was, passed the INA Privatisation Act. On this basis, the invitation to tender was also opened on 17 July 2003. After the tender, the government accepted the offer of MOL unanimously, then it was not HSLS, and it was still the HSS in the government. Unanimously, according to which MOL has already been given 505 million something right to those 25% shares and everything you've said. Now, on behalf of the Croatian government, the deal to sell shares was signed by then Economy Minister Ljubo Jurcic. It's a man of the same name and last name, not the same name and last name, that's the same person, colleagues, that you sent to Podravka last year to solve what your vice president of the government did there. So, the one you're accusing of giving MOL, I don't know what, hills and valleys, your prime minister and your government sent to fix what Polancec or those who are already, I'm sorry, I won't mention Mr. Polancec. So those who did what they did in Podrava. That's the first illogical thing you're saying. So if MOL is not bad, because you have now tried to correct it, then I guess the Croatian government was bad. And you are the very people of the Croatian government who did this you have confidence to send them to repair the damage that yours, or not yours, but close to them, have done. So that's the first illogicality. So, colleagues and colleagues, either MOL is bad or the Croatian government was wrong at the time. Although the government lost in the elections, it can give you an argument, but for these charges you made at the expense of the Croatian government, the fact that you sent in "Podravka" gives you an argument minus. Therefore, I think you've started to say that MOL is wrong, but then you're still when Mr. Linic warned you about the consequences of what it means you're a little bit retarded, so you went back to the government then. But good. There was a change of government, in 2003 there were elections, the government changed. HDZ came to power with its partners, placed a new INE Supervisory Board, and left the management president the same. Now, maybe you're what, you're now trying to say that it's HNS's chairman of the administration, but as far as I know, the HNS was an opposition then and it wasn't you, I don't believe that anyone could have had an impact on you to leave someone who made such a mistake in 2000 and I don't know what year so he gave INI, MOL, I don't know that kind of rights. So that's the second illogicality you warn about. And at the end of 2008, the then Prime Minister, Mr Sanader, said on October 31st, MOL is a good strategic partner. So it's in something that matches what you said, but your discussions today and your discussions simply don't show what you're saying. So, what's up... Maybe, here's what I'm gonna do. Maybe someday I'm gonna figure it out. I'm gonna study, I'm gonna try, I'm gonna be better, I'm gonna be okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But I don't think elemental logic stands. And finally, it passed in 2004, it passed in 2005, it passed in 2006, it passed in 2008, it passed in 2009, and one part, so you see, it's hard to count that time, let alone all the time. Minister Shuker was on the board of directors of INE, and since he was, in general, so he might, after all, be the one to press charges for mental pain when with such tied hands he could be there all the time if you say so. And in the end, there was some law you called upon that you could change. Well, we changed this House to hundreds of laws, so you could change that law. I'd say there's something else. Namely, when this whole story started with Polancec, Podravka, OTP, INA, MOL, etc. It doesn't matter now, then, that the prime minister has also advocated that the contracts be announced and that now this is your attempt, so because we are talking more about 2003 than this last one. It's one of your good ones, and I think he's politically wise and he made it. So the subject of the 2009 contract is to return more to 2003. I have to give you a confession, you did well. The investigation committee will continue to work and we'll see what comes. But it's also the fact that officials of this current HDZ government have been saying that these contracts that Polancec only negotiated are not good for you, that we need to see that this is what we're going to do. Therefore, your intention is very clear to me, it is politically logical to me. You're a bit of a contradiction when you're trying to transfer the debate to 2003 even though it's been seven years, you've had seven years of INA management. Minister Shuker was on the board of directors, you left the same board president all the time, and so we'll see what the investigative committee will do if it's as political as it is then they won't do anything, and if it's correct and professional, then we'll finally find out the full truth. And finally, I support the proposal to establish an investigative commission. To play with the words, Mol is in Dalmatia a fish that is given to the sick and that's what the cooked white one puts on. Therefore, INA is now in such a state that she obviously needs a little Mola for the sick. And otherwise, the mall is in music, probably and you know it, synonym for a sad chord, right, Mr. Matusic? I think it's sad and it's mostly river writing in the mall, and I think in the last seven years it's written in a sentence for the INA at the HDZ mall under the conductor's bat of Eve Sanader in the performed Polancec, and... which I thank my colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50720	Now, I'm following this debate, and by chance, on this little screen, it's written by the Verdi River, it's going to be on the air. And is Smudj a fish for the healthy? But I ate Moll in restaurants somewhere on the Adriatic, they weren't sanatories for the sick. Two corrections first Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50721	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct two incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague named Bauk. Mr. Jurcic wasn't sent there to correct something of Polancec. Mr. Jurcic was there given the confidence of this country to be the chairman of the supervisory board of a company that is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. I hope he does his post as supervisory board properly. He's not the chairman of the board and he doesn't make business decisions. He's exactly what the Company Act says oversees management decisions. And I don't know that Mr. Polancec has made it, and Mr. Jurcic is supposed to be there to correct it for you. Maybe I missed something. So let me use my business rights to correct you and I so that you can be tighter in that belief, that you've run a little bit with the assessment that someone was doing something there. And otherwise, my colleague Bauk here we're talking about a phenomenon that's what's wrong with his shirt. Why 2003? Then a button or a button as they say in your neighborhood went into the wrong hole and as many buckles as you can, the shirt is always wrongly buttoned. And the only thing I can agree with you is what you said well after 2009 came in 2010. That's exactly what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50722	Mr. Representative Frana Matušić correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50723	Thank you. Here's a colleague, Roncevic, who corrected an incorrect quote that I thought I did. Another incorrect assumption that HDZ is actually a contradiction because it is constantly trying to transfer the debate to 2003. No, I don't. We point out that in 2003 it is important because it created these preconditions that we are talking about in disproportionate management of MOL's rights. Otherwise Mol or Oslic is not a fish for the sick like you said. It's such a good fish that those who are sick can eat it too. The second thing, mol as a cord in music is not it's too superficial to say it's a sad cord. Just the most beautiful works are composed in moll tonality. So, in general for your discussions colleagues I would just say the following: "nomen est omens".
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50724	And Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50725	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, let's keep going a little bit in the music tone and keep going. Today, a colleague, Maras, mentioned that the management rights were sold with the sounds of the wizards, and I claim they were sold with the sounds of "By the Forests and the Mountains". We know that after the election, what was sung. So I think this is much clearer and we know what time it refers to. So, so much for this. INA today we heard the same thing was the pride of the Croatian economy. I say it was pride first of all in the Yugoslav economy. ...played all over Yugoslavia, unfortunately ran out of numerous pumps and numerous resources as we like to say and suffered quite a bit. But what's there is. But the INA as a monopolies had a similar ending, and fortunately, the sequel was something. But many monopolies have died in the late '80s because they didn't modernize. I know countless of our factories that were on their knees in '87, eighth, ninth. Get yourself a '89 paper. So you will see that the Yugoslav economy was on its knees precisely because of non-modernization. That's what happened to the INA. So INA is normally further neatly I have to say unlike the time of Yugoslavia where we had a couple, not a couple and fat fines paid if we happened to show up on the street and there was a weird date of some kind. We were right about the odd, and we came in the laundry. I personally paid a high sentence, I must admit, when we went to a funeral but what's there. So, the INA has served the war well, I must admit, it has helped a lot and we have welcomed it finally in 2000. In 2002, here comes the Privatization Act. Let's remember the cry from the early '90s, to come back a little while longer "she's being held by the worst master, everything needs to be privatized". So, there were calls like that and now we're talking a little differently. So the contract comes and comes in 2003 when that contract is signed on what we're talking about today. Without a doubt, then, the rights of management were committed. In a very perfidious way, it is agreed that no more important decision is actually made without raising one of the Hungarians so I say in the administration, so it could have been as much as we want ours but without it nothing could have happened. So, and now instead of being transparent and it could have been teaching and managing rights because we did it in reality and we need something to get it. We didn't get anything or I don't know that anyone got anything but as these days reveal it, it's possible that someone might have something and got what this investigative commission might determine because it's also going to be a number of witnesses. After that or actually before that, strange things have already happened in INA, which I believe again some witnesses will confirm that the transport of INA was simply destroyed, that it gave priority to selected privates for the transport of oil derivatives. So that's where INA got really hurt in the process. Find a lot, you'll see how many tanks INA has today, how many there were then, and if there was any reason for that to happen at all. And now, given the chronic fear of gas shortages in our home and it's convenient to isolate something we've singled out Plinarro, gas transport and so on. But in addition, we should have definitely singled out the gas field around because then the safety would have been much higher. But those who were selling INA thought if we moved away, we'd get something less and more, and it wasn't done. And this caused immeasurable damage to the Croatian state. It is quantifiable in fact, excuse me, it comes somewhere 500 million kunas of unnecessary payment of the Croatian state for something that was ours, but it also needs to be discussed, whose responsibility is that it was made so. Technically all by law, a single firm, that firm would do it, that and that, but the firm certainly wouldn't have been the way it was if it hadn't contributed to market security. And that's why gas is actually being discussed, and there have been a lot of calls that INA must ensure that the Croatian state must provide gas consumers, and that is clearly the case. There were strange things, there were favors to a large private firm in Rijeka I am happy to mention to Europe the only time others could not import oil was at privileged prices. All the other ordinary mortals and privates got fuel at retail prices and fell neatly, but they didn't disappear because all those pumps bought, you'll guess, Europetroll. Exceptionally little and it matches some things that Europetroll was from Rijeka, but, dear God, what we're going to do, the river was always well protected, so we're probably not going to explore it. I think counterpart Jovanovic will make an effort to prevent any investigation that is going well these days. Next, we talked a little bit about stock prices. Share prices then and now certainly cannot be compared because if there were then a management right which should have been and in reality any price shares would have been significantly higher than it is now. And now in these circumstances or in this context, it is certain that the price is what it is. So here we have to observe the global stock market and everything, so let's not brag that we were expensive then. I have to admit that we were cheap then and that we actually did an extremely bad job. They were mentioned here and other companies, we were destroying Pliva. So Pliva destroyed herself. It should be said that Pliva lived on one single drug for years, Sumameda, we know well. If the gentlemen in Pliva had invented something else, maybe they couldn't, the world market is such that they simply had new drugs, if they had invented something else, they'd probably have quoted a lot better and not gone bad. Because the moment everyone else began to produce Sumamed as a generic drug it was almost with Pliva, Pliva no longer had anything to offer but Andola seems to me to have some other drugs. So Pliva's problem is from another story, and it makes me think we're all skipping because we're trying to say that the future was big just because the factory had a name. What damage was done in 2003 is also to say that many of the INAs were not isolated again, although I do not like the word resources, water resources and the like. So it didn't even think about what would happen to the wells, what would happen to the water, what would happen to the others, let's sell it so we can patch up some holes and sell ourselves. Of course, nothing concrete has been obtained because the actual purchases were somewhat later but let's say a whole series of things that went from the tilting trains to the further, but it was paid later. Just like fire tanks where one set of authorities apparently picked up a lot of them from Daimler and another set, the next set that came to power had to pay for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50726	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Agent Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50727	Mr. Vice President, I would like to correct the incorrect colleagues of Markovinović, who was in connection with the song under which this management rights were sold, so you mentioned a song that I didn't believe at the time, because there was no noise from the Split Riviera but also from the noise of works on the Zagreb-Split highway and then there were not so many songs in 2002. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50728	In honor of various election victories, everything was sung with late effect. Replica Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50729	So here's my colleague Markovanovic, you've guessed exactly that she was in the mall in the woods, so in the mall, the basic tonality of the mall. However, what is important, which was not mentioned in the debate, you said that, of course, the representatives of MOL were two members of the Supervisory Board, but two members of the Board and what kind of two members. So one of those two members was in charge of finance and control, so a key post in the administration after the management president. Finance and control, I think everyone knows what that means for one such firm when one member of the board of directors in some firms can freely say that it's also more important to the one who controls the finances, that it's actually the person who manages the company. So it's very important. You mentioned affairs so you mentioned an affair about companies that were engaged in transport, etc., but I would mention an affair that was during the time of 2000, so the beginning of this millennium and this decade, and it is related to the sale of white nights. At that time, white nights were sold. And in what way, in what way? By making one offer at $200 million, and of course, it did not come up with that offer that was knownly more favourable than the other of $70 million. It was sold to whoever offered $70 million, and it did not fully receive that money, but only 50% of the agreed amount, or $35 million, was paid to cover the white night debts incurred in the period since then the new management president took over the lead, Mr Dragicevic, although before that the company had done business with 30 million dollars a year, and the amount of $20 million was kept especially in the account under the pretext for covering any later findings. Of course these shortcomings have been discovered and that the $20 million has not been paid. So it's quite clear what it's all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50730	Okay. The answer to the replica of the white nights.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50731	White nights, so, of course, white nights bothered, all that was white was, in the dark, doing better jobs like this. That's why we've put this aside nicely, and it's been an extremely dark night, and that period really needs to be explored a little bit better because the fact is that it's moving really fast, and it's getting old, and I think it's my favorite word in SDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50732	It's been a long dark night. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50733	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. A little bit about INA, all my knowledge I owe INA and a little bit more I know about it and I would say the work experience I gained in that INA and I'm ashamed of INA today and yesterday, but I wasn't ashamed at the time of socialism. And we ended up a socialist period and it was one of the most modern companies not in Croatia, meaning in the late '80s, the most modern technology. The Rijeka refinery workers were on all final works and trial productions of refinery around the world, and we also sold knowledge in the 1990s. Every year everything changed, everything was renewed and technology was always shining, the refinery was shining. Yeah, it's socialism. Oil, gas, the most capable people, smokers around the world have been investigating and not bothered by their relationship with Yugoslavia, but Yugoslavia forced the INA to buy Iraqi, Iranian oil, Russian oil because it compensated with construction works from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, in part from Croatia. She had INA losses due to unrecognized prices, but she always thought about the future, the education of staff, her wealth, and these were production plants. Yes, it's unfortunately a time of socialism. And since the '90s, we can't be proud anymore. Everyone has the right to their past and their memories. I'm talking about what this INA taught me, the theft didn't teach me, and responsiblely run the business yes. You know, as much as I remember this Yugoslavia, I'm the only one who sued the state of Yugoslavia for the damage done by the INA, the only one. A good part of the Croats always bowed their heads in Belgrade, but we won't talk about it, we won't. It's a dictatorship for you, I wasn't afraid of that dictatorship like I'm not even afraid of law enforcement now. As you can see, that's the difference between how INA was taken care of, and we say gentlemen, we want to talk about how INA is being taken care of today. That's the darkness. Why don't we have two refineries ready, why don't we have research on the Adriatic, why don't we have research on our Slavonia, why don't we have oil and gas wells? Why the wells that used to be closed because the cost of exploitation was higher than the price of oil, $6 per barrel, why don't those wells open again, because the price is over 40 again, over 60. These are the topics we need to discuss, but we don't want to talk about it. We think, even though today I don't know what we think anymore, whether MOL is a bad or a good partner, I have to say I don't know. Personally, listening to you, I don't know. And I realized that we had found a solution and that we would find answers easily on the committee. MOL is an irresponsible, bad strategic partner, doesn't know his job, tutu, let's talk about the end of the contract. But apparently, listening to the corrections in the last two, three exhibitions, you see that you don't think so anymore. Now I'm asking again, and what's the INA rating, are we satisfied with that INA? We didn't. But if it's not MOL's fault how much is our guilt, Croatian guilt, government guilt, people who are there? That's the topic to discuss. White nights are mentioned, so he's got state's attorney's papers. The management handled the sale of white nights. Is he okay? It's not good. Was it dark? Try and get the state's attorney's office to run a background check. Well, that won't solve the problem of not investing in the refinery. We still don't know today if tomorrow the refineries are going to enter a plant that's going to get motor fuel from heavy derivatives independent diesel or gasoline. We don't know from tomorrow our future, so we should know. We should know here in the Parliament. That's what we're interested in, and we don't want to talk about it. We don't want to talk. Therefore, if we chose MOL as a partner then we have the right to speak about how they behave, how our people and MOL and the people of MOL in INA meet Croatian regulations, Croatian laws, correspond to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not only to the Hungarians. They and Hungarians as owners, but they comply with Croatia's corporate governance rules, we need to discuss this. Here I ask again why we didn't listen, which the coalition government didn't single out the warehouse around. So let's get some serious talk about the gas once. What does a warehouse mean? I guess it's a gas warehouse. Now try to explain to me at a time when I was vice president of the government, I was to blame for the formula about oil. But the coalition government has not resolved the issue of the economic price of gas, has not resolved the economic price of gas. Do you know what that means? This means that on the burden of derivatives and citizens buying derivatives we have broken the price of non-real gas, the price of more expensive gas. We could have done that, you know why? Because the gas was in the INA and today it's in the INA and that's what MOL is complaining about. He doesn't want gas losses to continue to be transferred to the company, on the INA. He thinks it's wrong. So I think our coalition government didn't do it. But from 2004 to 2010, they're six years away, seven years away. You also haven't solved the price of gas, but you would have taken the warehouse. What without gas or vice versa? You'd take the gas, and what would you cover your losses from the budget? Would you cover your losses from the budget? Well, people, do we know what we're talking about? Gas business will be business when we have economic gas prices. We don't have them. We break the price of unreal gas on the load of motor fuels. We're aware of that. But no, you'd single out the warehouse. Sanader was screaming and yelling, "It's your fault." What about the price? Why isn't gas paid now? Why wasn't the gas paid? Four billion losses to this budget that is full of problems. Is that the answer we want to send? Oh, that's not an answer. There's something we need to know about this gas business, something we need to know, and I guess we know something about companies. INA is a subject. We didn't carry shares of pipelines, shares of Plinar, no. There's nothing in the good eyes. As an insolvency firm, INA owed 2 billion taxes, yes. Gentlemen, the taxpayers paid us to be majority owners of the pipeline, paid the INA and its share as Plinacro has now paid around. Also, Plinarro, when he was singled out, paid for everything that was entered into Plinacro. But why buy the warehouse and leave the gas behind? Who can explain that to me? Or vice versa, you think you should take the gas, and governments don't have the strength because of a crisis that lasts and lasts, because of unsolved pension status, low pensions, problematic salaries, today we don't have a real price for gas today. But we're supposed to take it? What? You have to explain to me what we should have taken. Half the work done as the government did, took the warehouse, and the gas remained in the INA. And why did he stay in the INA? Because he's still loading oil derivatives. Yeah, they're a little complex economic accounts. It's an economic policy run by the government. And no one resents her, her right to still have a gas market that's adjusted. We can still wait for the entry into Europe and then we can. And if we had, I'd tell the tracking agency, the energy regulator, but as you can see, gas prices don't go by economy, they don't go by economy. But what's important is a political message, a political fight, not something to try to solve. I realized that today when we met, we argued in a way that we wanted to go to the commission that we would finally define the situation in the INA, shared responsibility because you hear obviously that marriage is not a single fault, that we try to say that, it is a failure in both these and those. Something needs to change. Can we move on with this marriage or not? Can we go on with this marriage? What is our future INA with this marriage? I expected it, but apparently it's hard to get it in the commission. But let's try, let's try. So we went very clearly today by not wanting to plant anyone. We're unhappy with the realisation of the contract, with the development of the INA. Also, we're gonna talk about why we were subtracting profits from INA when it was supposed to be invested in INA? You know, 2003. 2 billion was agreed upon by kuna loans and we were returning interest, interest paid on unused loan to modernise the refinery. You know that. But there was no modernization. If it's just a problem contract can't be. Someone decided there was no modernization, so I guess we want to find out, so we've been agreeing to go since 2000. Let's get those grades, let's give the grades exactly what we got by privatizing, where it's responsibility and what we're going to change. Let's change the way our commission operates. Let us try to get this particular commission that the Assembly will suggest whether we can go along with a partner like this, whether we can speed up, whether we can influence him, whether we should influence him, or start negotiations on the end of marriage. I repeat, they're not easy, they're heavy, they can cost. But we have cases in Croatia that we didn't negotiate so badly, neither did Bechtel, and neither did Enron. But we've assessed that we should part ways, that we're not even. Could it also give that commission as a result of the work. So it just leaves a question of what we want to go in with? At the very least, as one of the promoters, I am pleased that this assessment does not prevail, however, that MOL is an irresponsible partner and is the only one to blame for this situation in INA. So, thank you for the debate, I believe we'll be able to agree on the composition, and now there's only one question in which direction we want to talk. Is it because we want INA to evaluate who missed what happened at the INA, and maybe say what we're going to do next... in INA, and that would be good political messages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But if you're assessing that the coalition government is the only one who's guilty, because that's what made it possible for MOL to stop the development of gas, oil research and the processing of derivatives, it's all right, and you can figure it out, if it's going to change the situation I don't know, because if it's the wrong government then it needs to break up marriage with MOL, then it needs to be broken down. I guess we're not looking for a political shootout,... I guess our goal tomorrow is to get some answers from the INA. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why I hope this commission could still work a little differently, and make some different conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50734	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50735	Well, here's the thing. I've got to fix my colleague. I mean, there's a lot of that inaccuracy about the greatness of the INA... INA was, it's not true that she was bright, beautiful, beautiful, she was a monopoliest who produced poor quality fuel. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Ask the people of Sisak about the brightness of the INA, ask the people of Bakar, and then you will hear what INA was. That's one thing. Secondly, it is also incorrect that we should know what INAs should have taken, or take INA's MOL, when you were selling INA to that we don't need to know, as we don't know and what you took at that point.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50736	And Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50737	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's incorrect that HDZ is constantly changing... Opinions, so you're confused, you don't know what you'd think, because whether we're thinking about MOL is this or that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've been warning all day that by that contract you gave management rights in disproportionate to the percentage of shares, that's what we've been saying all day today, that MOL got him something that under no law,... Under the Company Act, it can't belong, not even to that law that you've passed on the privatisation of the INA. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's one thing. Secondly, you're talking about socialism, etc. Socialism was the greatest delusion of the Communist party. Comrade Linic, you weren't afraid because you were part of that system. You were part of that system. I thought it was SDP, that it really was fenced by the communist dictatorship. What you call socialism in the free world is called the dictatorship of the Communist Party and that is what was in Croatia, you should not have thought differently. You were persecuted and killed because you thought differently. Today in this House you have... thinking, no one thinks they're after someone or God doesn't kill someone because they think otherwise, and that's what happened in your so-called. Socialism, which is the greatest delusion of the Communist party. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50738	I conclude the debate, interrupt the session, resume tomorrow at 9:30 with themes, we will begin by discussing the final proposal for a Law amending the General Application Act, and the Final Proposal for the Law on the Completion of the '96 Protocol Act. A year. We will skip the law, the Final Proposal for the Law on Marine Fisheries for the consultation of ministers with Brussels, we will go to the debate on the Proposal for a Decision to declare the Day of Remembrance of Host Camps during the Homeland War, and the Report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2009, and at 12 hours voting on the discussed items of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50739	Secondly, the motion for a decision on... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Sure, go ahead. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50740	President-in-Office of the Parliament, so last time I think that when there was a vote, my colleague Vujic made one wish to vote on the conclusions he sent to the procedure, and the government is negatively obvious about them, to vote for the conclusion, or against the conclusion, and not vice versa, so I'm curious about when it will be made possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50741	It is not only the Government but it is a proposal and a parliamentary committee of the parent so it is so voted and that the Government itself made the proposal then they would put forward a proposal to accept, accept, accept and who does not accept. The first thing that matters here is the parliamentary board and the government, that's why. Thank you. Second, the Proposal for a Decision establishing the Research Commission for the Determination of Facts concerning the conclusion of the First Amendment and the Completion of the Treaty on Interrelationships relating to the companies "INA-Industry of Oil d.d." and the main gas business contract with the strategic partner "MOL Hungarian Oil and Gas PLC". That's what it's called, I guess. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club and representative Dragutin Lesar. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Mr. Gordan Maras, on behalf of the promoter, please be known to the club of representatives, Amendment 1, in the title of the decision of the word regarding the relationship, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50742	Thank you very much, Mr. President. By agreement with the HDZ Representatives Club, given that several other contracts have emerged which should be included in the title, we propose that the name of the decision be changed in a way that is now called this: a decision to establish an investigative committee for the determination of facts regarding the privatisation of the INA Oil Industry d.d., and all contracts and contract additions between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the strategic partner MOL. So this is united given the proposal by the HDZ Representatives Club to include certain other contracts in the title.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50743	This proposal for an amendment in the formulation as presented by Mr Maras has been accepted by the HDZ Representatives Club. Amendment 2 to point 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50744	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50745	This becomes an integral part of the proposal. And Amendment 3 to point three.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50746	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50747	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And amendment four to point three.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50748	That's the one.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50749	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And we have Mr. Dragutin Lesar's amendment at point one word: "they" is replaced by a decimal, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50750	Modified amendments are accepted. So "you" is replaced by a decimal, etc. But also in point 3. sub-paragraph 12. Likewise, the same way "they" is cast out, a decimal is placed and the following is added "and the first addition to the main gas business contract".
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-25-0.u50751	So the difference between you and the amendment that Mr. Representative doesn't have to vote. So, who accepts the amendment in Mr. Lesar's formulation, or amendment. I think it's actually a little modified, but we have to formally refuse to say Mr. Lesar's amendment. Who's up for that amendment? Didn't get the required majority Sustained. [[Intruder Maras: How did he not get?]] What? The amendment is accepted, please, in Mr. Lesar's formulation. So the amendment to the gentleman's formulation is accepted... No, who's in favor of the amendment that read here by the proposer's representative? Please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? There isn't. Thank you. So, this seems a little strange to you, but we have to vote if there are no MPs on the formulation he put out, and we refused and accepted this formulation. It's all clean and fine. Article 6 The law on investigating committees is prescribed to decide, according to a proposal for the establishment of an investigative commission, by a majority vote of all MPs. So 77 at least. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee to determine the facts regarding the conclusion of the first amendment and the addition of the contract, i.e. in the formulation in which you have accepted here as an amendment that I do not read it. You read it. So that's what it's called, as Mr. Maras read. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? So, I find that this proposal has been accepted by the majority of votes, 105 votes for, one abstention, nothing against, as with 105 votes, the previous amendment. I call on the representatives' clubs to comply with the provisions of Articles 8 and 9. The law on investigative committees shall be proposed by members of their ranks to the Board of Elections and appointments of the Croatian Parliament in order to make a full decision on the establishment of an investigative committee for the determination of facts relating to the conclusion of the first amendment, additions, etc. that kind of formulation we've changed. So, please, we suggest that it be done as soon as possible. Let the clubs be heard by the beginning of the next session. Thank you. Resume the session, of course, because the session is the same. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We continue with the work of the 17th session with the agenda point as announced, - Final bill on amendments to the Law on general application items, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 518. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. Whether or not the applicant's representative wishes to further explain. Mr. Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. Here you go.
