ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64787	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The freedom of information and thus the availability of information available to public authorities is one of the fundamental human rights guaranteed in our Constitution and also regulated by numerous international documents. The current Law on the right to access information was passed in 2003. The aim of this Act is to enable and ensure the exercise of the right to access information to all natural and legal persons through the openness and public action of the public authority in order to exercise control of their work. The current application of the law has identified problems in achieving its basic purpose and objective. From the previous reports on the implementation of the Law discussed by the Parliament, the most common problems are mentioned by the public authorities in an unfair solution to the requirements, not making a solution to the refusal of a solution, unequal treatment and practice in the application of the Law, unfair delivery, or not delivering these annual reports to the Ministry for the purpose of drawing up a summary report. It also does not implement a system of education, i.e. one systematic education on the law. On the part of the user, the right to access information has been found to abuse the demand for information which is considered information within the meaning of the law, that is to say, to seek information relating to the resolution of his personal procedures in the administrative or judicial proceedings which are available to them by applying the General Administrative Procedure Act or other relevant procedural rules. Also on the user's side of the right to access information is insufficient knowledge of the provisions of the current law. According to the Action Plan with the Anti-Corruption Strategy adopted in 2008, one of the objectives is to improve the legal and institutional framework for the effective and systematic control of corruption and, accordingly, the Ministry of Administration should have drawn up and developed amendments to the Law on the right to access information. Otherwise, this Law is also one of the criteria for closing Chapter 23 in the negotiations. The amendments to the Constitution adopted by the Assembly this year highlighted the importance of the constitutional right to access information owned by public authorities and thus established the basis for its consistent legislative implementation. The constitutional basis for legal restrictions on access to information which must comply with the principle of proportionality of restrictions is also laid down so that it is proportionate to the nature of the need for a restriction in each case. In the very process of drafting this Act, therefore, both in preparation and for the first and second reading, representatives of civil society participated, and two public debates on the subject were organised in cooperation with GONG. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the right to access information was adopted at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament on 9 July 2010 on the basis of the observations made in the first reading and on the basis of the observations of the European Commission and the SIGMA, a final draft law was drawn up before us. The main issues to be addressed by this law are the concept of a public authority body, in such a way that the definition of public authorities is complemented by legal persons whose programmes and actions are partly or entirely of the law identified as public interest and are fully or partly financed from the state budget or from the budget of units of local or regional self-government, as well as by commercial companies owned by the majority of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the concept of information is clarified, the concept of a test of public interest and proportionality is introduced in the case of short information. The appeal procedure has been improved and has been entrusted to the body for the protection of the right to access information. So, he is entrusted to the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data which is a body that is solely responsible to the Parliament and which is independent from the Executive Authority and thus we have removed one of the very important objections which has been pointed out to us many times by the experts of the European Commission. Furthermore, this Final Proposal aligns the provisions with the General Administrative Procedure Act, introduces more appropriate control of the implementation of the law by an independent body, the release of the right to information from payment of administrative fees, introduces uniform criteria for the collection of the actual material costs of the public authority body and what we have announced in our reports, and refers to the failure of annual reports to the Ministry to produce a single joint report, introduces a penalty for the infringement of the responsible person in the bodies of the public authority which does not also deliver an annual report within the prescribed time limit. In short, the differences between the solutions proposed by the final draft of the law in relation to the solutions presented in the proposal, therefore in the first reading, the further completion of the definition of public authorities in such a way as to complement trade societies in which the Republic of Croatia and local and regional (regional) self-government units have separate or majority ownership. Furthermore, this is the setting up of a specific or empowerment specifically to an independent body in the secondary resolution of the Personal Data Protection Agency and in this respect additional content of the tasks of an independent body for the protection of the right to access information has been prescribed. In relation to the first reading, the provisions governing the application and enforcement of the law have also been corrected, and a specific provision stipulates that the applicant may declare an appeal, i.e. a complaint to initiate an administrative dispute, and where the public authority does not decide within the prescribed time limit on the application of the applicant, thus allowing for the dispute to be contested and the refuted application. So what is very often in practice that simply users of the right to access information address the competent authorities, the bodies simply do not respond. Now we have covered this provision that even under the procedural rules can be settled. It is also prescribed in relation to the first reading that the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia in the administrative dispute is authorised to examine the correctness of the application of a test of public interest and proportionality and to assess whether access to the requested information is in the public interest and the necessity to achieve a law of the intended purpose. At a meeting of the Committee on European Integration, the question has been asked whether the definition of the user's right to information corresponds to international standards or whether it is so arranged in other countries. We have made one comparative analysis as far as possible in one day and have delivered it to a committee from which it is apparent that this is the international standard prescribed by international documents and similar or almost the same definition is reflected in most countries. Of course it can be arranged differently from country to country. But what's important for that definition is that the definition of the user's right to access information has been unchanged since 2003 when the law was passed. So far, there have been no objections to its implementation and there have also been no objections by the European Commission to the content of this norm. This final proposal is in line with the European Commission and SIGMA-E's observations and as I said it is one of the conditions for the closure of Chapter 23 and as such it is suitable for adoption. Once again, I would like to thank the representatives of civil society, especially the representatives of GONG, who have helped us greatly to propose a solution to this law. Amendments to the Committee on the Constitution, the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government have been submitted to the text of the final proposal. The Ministry of Administration, as a representative of the motion, has sent a proposal to the Government to accept all these amendments. But before the session is over, I can't accept it. Therefore, the Parliament is proposed to adopt and support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64788	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Yeah. Mr Emil Tomljanovic, chairman of the Committee on Legislatives, I also see the vice president of Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64789	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the 107th session held on 22 November 2010, the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee discussed the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the right to access information, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament on 5 November 2010. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law, and I think it is important to note this amendment in the light of the supplement or the proposed Article 22a, which would read, in the whole text of the law on access to information, that the word 'author' is replaced by the word 'user', of course, in the corresponding generation and fall. In addition to those amendments, the Committee shall make the following comments and proposals. In Article 13(4) and (5), it is necessary to make a legal statement within the meaning of an orderly appeal and to submit an orderly appeal, since the use of those terms does not comply with the terminology of the applicable legal rules. It is also unacceptable in Article 21 to lay down in transitional and final provisions that the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data shall carry out the tasks of an independent body for the protection of the right to access information. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the whole text of the final proposal, it is necessary to specify in a transparent manner what law is concerned when calling for the provisions of certain articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64790	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on European Integration, the Chairman of the Committee and Vice-President, Mr Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64791	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The European Integration Committee discussed this legislative proposal as an interested working body. In the discussion, the board members raised the question of defining the concept of users' right to access information. It is pointed out that it is necessary to examine the practice of other European countries and if there are examples of restrictions on the circle of users of the right to information that they should be implemented in Article 2 of the Law. Following the discussion, the Committee on European Integration has reached the following conclusion: The harmonisation of the final draft amending and supplementing law on the right to access information with EU law and legal acts of the Council of Europe will be determined after the applicant provides information on the definition of users of the right to information in European countries. And now that's what it says in the opinion of the board that you got on the bench. What is not stated in this opinion are the facts that arise between the committee's session and today's debate, which is the fact that the applicant has submitted a detailed comparative review of the definition of users of the right to information primarily in the Member States of the European Union. This information shows that, in practice, most or almost all within the European Union, as well as the relevant legal acts and legal gains of the European Union regulate the concept of the consumer's right to information in the broadest sense as the right of all, both domestic and foreign, and natural and legal persons, so that they can request information, which is the definition set out in Article 2 of this Act. So I can, after such an explanation, confirm, on behalf of and under the authority of the Committee, that this final proposal for a law is appropriate in accordance with the legal acquis of the European Union and, from that aspect, propose and adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64792	Thank you very much. Do the others want... Yeah. Mr. Ranko Ostojic, chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64793	Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at its 57th session of 25 November as an interested working body discussed the final draft of the law and, in accordance with our debate, on the basis of the proposal that the law is in line with the closure of 23 chapters in negotiations with the European Union and the need to amend the 2003 law. The principle debate highlighted that the report on the right to access information is not promising and that our public authorities ignore certain requirements. Some members of the Committee also questioned the independence of the authority responsible for exercising the right to access information. It is therefore pointed out that the tasks of an independent authority for access to information should be done by the Commissioner for Information. The proposer pointed out that the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data was institutionally appointed to represent an independent body that corresponds exclusively to the Assembly and such practice as to be known in Europe. In the individual discussion, the comments were made to Article 13(6), which was amended in Article 17. The Law on Access to Information of 2003 and, there, it is pointed out that access to information when it comes to classified data has been resolved in the Data Privacy Act itself, and that the body which owns classified data in the event of receipt of a request for access to information is obliged to assess the proportionality between the right to access information and values protected by classified information and to decide on the retention of the degree of secrecy, application of the degree of secrecy, declassification or exemption from secrecy. Most of the votes following the debate, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Law on Access to Information, and the text of the proposal was submitted by the Committee on the following amendment to Article 13, that I do not now state, in accordance with Article 8(1), the words are replaced by what we just spoke about classified data. That's what you got in writing. The reason is that access to information classified and insight into documents is resolved by the Data Securitisation Act and the proposed amendments are aligned with the Data Securitisation Act. For this reason, we have tabled such a proposal for an amendment to comply with international agreements between the Republic of Croatia and NATO and the European Union, where it is specified exactly who can gain insight into classified data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64794	Thank you. Is there any more interest in the board? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. Before I give my word to the first representative of the club, I would like to inform you that, as always, we will have a vote at 12 o'clock, so I would ask the clubs to provide representatives and representatives. And right away, let me say that next week, according to our current plan, we would be doing normal work on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, and then if there were anything that would be important to discuss or more important than anything else, then we still have those three days next week Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday that I don't think we will, but if one of those days is possible for the Assembly to meet, but if not for sure Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. For now, that's for sure. There you go. So I ask the clubs again to secure their members at 12 o'clock at the vote. Since I opened the debate, Mr Emil Tomljanovic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64795	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I will say that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports these amendments and complements, so this bill. And, of course, it should be pointed out in the introduction that the amendments and additions of the Law on the right to access information should be seen not only in the context of the new constitutional provisions defining the right to access information owned by public authorities as a constitutional category, but also in light of the difficulties in applying existing legal provisions or the application of legislation which has therefore entered into force or was adopted in 2003. Of these difficulties that have arisen in the model itself, it may be necessary to highlight three basics, therefore it is also about the long-term nature of the procedure, the inequality of practice, and in certain situations, of course, there has been an abuse in terms of the exercise of this right. Furthermore, the amended provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. Article 38, guarantees the right to access information owned by public authorities. But also restrictions on access to information must be proportionate to the nature of the need for a restriction in each case. So, in each case, you are necessary in a free and democratic society, and of course they are prescribed by law. When we analyse the proposed changes or additions or analyses of the proposed changes which, therefore, absolutely improve the Institute's right to access information and, of course, points to the conclusion that it is about quality changes, good legislative solutions and which can be systematised in the next five essential and separate units that actually, therefore, characterise these proposed changes and additions. What it's really about or what it's all about. The first of them is, in any case, an extension of the circle of persons covered by the legal obligation to provide information, the second very important article. So we have extended this law round of natural legal persons that are covered by the obligation to give information on their own request. Second or second whole. It has been fully implemented, and based on constitutional provisions, the principle of proportionality in terms of providing information to the public authority. Therefore, it is explicitly prescribed by law in which all situations cannot come and what is this information in which all situations do not result in information being provided. I would point out here that the other legal provisions are necessary and logical. Therefore, information which would, in any sense, prevent the effective, independent and impartial conduct of a judicial, administrative or other legal procedure or the enforcement of a judicial decision or sentence cannot be provided. In addition, those information which would prevent the work of bodies carrying out administrative surveillance, i.e. inspection supervision or supervision of legality. And, of course, those information which would injure the right of intellectual property except in the case of express consent by the author or owner of that right. Thus, the Constitution also respected the principle of proportionality. The third thing is very important, if not the most important in terms of these amendments and additions, that the law defines an independent body for the protection of access to information which, in addition to second-degree bodies' tasks in the resolution of complaints for the exercise of the right to access to information, also carries out the following tasks and they are also taxed in these amendments and additions, and firstly refers to the reporting of the competent central authorities of the state administration of compliance with the public authority's obligations prescribed by this law. Next, it proposes measures for professional training and training of information officers, giving initiatives to adopt or amend regulations for the purpose of implementing and improving the right to access information. And it certainly reports on the rights of users to access information governed by this Act. The fourth whole, that is, the fourth thing that should be noted. So the proposal actually accepted the proposal of many institutions and persons dealing with this problem. Therefore, the proposal has been accepted to accept a legal solution which, therefore, exempts from payment of fees in this procedure. And five or five wholes, I think, are very important, that fines are prescribed for those who, for unwarranted reasons, deny the right to access information. All of these or those amendments should, in any event, result in the basic objective of the proposed legislative amendments, which are ultimately to enable and ensure the exercise of the right to access information, to all natural and legal persons through the openness of the public to the functioning of the public authority in order to exercise control of their work. So, it is either respecting these legal provisions or the law itself is actually the best possible form of control of the body's work by public authorities with of course one fence provided that in practice there is no abuse of this right and these amendments and are also complemented by that trail to reduce to the least possible extent the possibility of misusing the right to access to information. As we have heard in the opening statement of the recognised State Secretariat, it is also this legislative amendment or regulation in this way that the right to access information is also a basic prerequisite for closing or one, one of the criteria or preconditions for closing Chapter 23 in terms of the conclusion of accession negotiations with the European Union, which is also very important to note. In line with all the above, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64796	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64797	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club, the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party will not support the proposed bill and not because it does not bring any newspaper or improvement, but because what it brings as a newspaper and improvements is definitely not enough and does not mean that the key problems that we have encountered in the implementation of this law will be eliminated. Therefore, we believe that the proposed changes are partly cosmetic and, in part, formal nature and that they do not guarantee the real implementation of the law that has actually been in force for seven years. What's this about? From the past few years when we regularly discussed the results of the application of this Law, i.e. the reports of the Government, i.e. the Ministry of Administration, gave us an adjudication on the basis of what was obtained from the public authority authorities that followed this law, it was evident that the key problems in its implementation were not being implemented. The fact is that 10 per cent of all public authorities regularly fulfil their legal obligation in that part of the statement is that they are required to inform the central authority of the state administration each year of how they implement the law. So only 10 percent of them stick to it, reports it, and then we get reports on benches that are actually completely unrealistic, unrealistic in that sense because they don't keep up the real state. We have a 10 percent sample of those who therefore respond to their legal obligation, and according to that sample, we try to assess how the law is implemented, and 90 percent of those who do not want to even report are presumed not to implement it, because they would certainly report it. Another problem is, where the law is implemented, there is a very unequal practice, so that some units of local self-government, regional self-government and other bodies with the public authority of the ministry, agencies, offices, institutions, law enforcement in one way and the other in another. Mostly this is more or less reflected in the fact that a person is in charge of providing information on behalf of a particular body benevolent, whether he takes his job seriously and responsibly or not. It's a volunteerism that's simply inadmissible. It is inadmissible after 7 years of implementation of this law and it seems to us at the HNS and HSU club that so far, almost nothing has been done to bring the level of implementation of this law to an acceptable point, where we could really objectively consider whether this law is implemented as it says, or whether it is ignored. And why does it matter? There are those who, therefore, see only and exclusively through the prism of those people who, as general litigators in court or on duty, and people who constantly beat something up, are asking the public authorities for information that nobody can serve and have really no publicly justified purpose. Of course, there are people who like to bother everyone around them, including bodies with public authority with questions. But are we going to interpret the implementation of this law against several such people who have no other business but are having fun in this way, or are we actually going to realize that the question of access to public information is a prerequisite for the achievement of a whole series of civil and other laws established rights of every citizen in the Republic of Croatia. The average citizen does not see what is happening in the Croatian Parliament, does not read the laws that are passed, does not read the regulations in the National Journal, and can hardly follow the change of all the regulations and laws that apply to our daily life. Of course the law says it doesn't in any way... of the obligation to comply with the law. [[You don't understand.]] But in order for a citizen to obey the law and exercise all the rights that the laws give him, in his daily life, he must have the information. If bodies with public authority deny that information, it may be significantly suspended, it may miss out on the possibility offered to it in a social, legal, in any area and thus be brought into a discriminatory position. It is therefore essential that the law be consistently implemented and that those who do not implement it be sanctioned. And what do we have as a practice? Despite the fact that for 7 years, about 90% of those who would have to implement this law do not implement it, all the criminal provisions in the current article 26 are actually a dead letter on paper. No single municipal body, state body, any other bodies with public authority has ever been punished before in Article 26. And with what right now does the Proposer assure us that the adoption of a new article 26a, which provides for a fine of thousands to 5,000 kuna for responsible persons in these bodies will suddenly change this situation? So if so far no one has been called for it and no punishment has been imposed, who can guarantee that it will be tomorrow? Go on. When we received on our bench reports over the past years how this law was implemented, we also received parallel reports, i.e. control reports prepared by GONG, because it is an organisation that has paid particular attention to the implementation of this law, they realize how important it is for the achievement of human, civil, national and minority, social, all other rights. And what happened? Every year, it is in fact established that the report submitted by the Ministry of Administration, i.e. the Government, differs significantly from the reality, because GONG itself with its activists and volunteers is currently trying to make different demands and can precisely measure whether exactly what the Government says in its report, in relation to their practice and the state of resolution of certain requirements they have submitted. So the fundamental consequences of the non-implementation of this law are only, i.e. the implementation of laws such as non-implementation, and where a completely unequal practice is carried out. The consequence is that we can say that citizens are actually disabled in the exercise of their rights. Mostly the inequality of practice tells us about it and the fact that some, some bodies with public authority, charge charges for this kind of obligation, some do not. It also tells us that there are bodies of public authority, based on one of the instructions issued by the central administration office in due time, in which it is said whenever a citizen addresses the body with public authority, with a request for specific information, if you are explicit, so do not explicitly call upon the right under this law, do not treat such a requirement under this law. This is extremely incorrect, because one way to dictate the legal right of a citizen to come to his own, to the information he needs to exercise his rights. Furthermore, who can guarantee us that citizens under this amended law will be in a more favourable position if not even parliamentary representatives, if even council members in city and municipal congregations and councils are not able to do so. I remind you, and it's a big spot on the face of the Department of Administration, on two cases. The first is the case of old Mikanovci, where not to be delivered to councilors for years, and they are prevented from delivering the data they need to work on the implementation of the budget on the state of city finances, etc., but are still physically beaten. SDP, HNS and HSP were beaten at the Old Mikanovci Municipal Council, and they cannot get information about the work of the municipal administration until today. The second case, it's becoming less and less the Department of Administration closes its eyes. The only consequence was the discharge of the municipal council, and the municipal chief did not fall hair off his head, and he is the winemaker of the entire circus in the Old Mikanovci. Another case, identical situations happen in the city councils of Vukovar and Velika Gorica, however, such solutions are issued which, in both cases, are completely different, so the solutions are different, but they please one political party, which is extremely untrustworthy and therefore we do not believe in the proposals of the Ministry of Administration, as we do not believe, nor that the Personal Data Protection Agency will be able to fulfill the role of an independent second-degree body why? By its definition, the Agency is not fully independent. We have seen this from practice when it was required to publish the Defence Register and according to existing regulations which say that the Defence Register consists of a general and special part and that in general there can only be data that are not intruding into personal data. Only in a special section are all the controversial elements of the war route and further mentioned in the public as a reason why the register cannot be published. And then it turned out that, following these regulations, the Agency estimated that the publication of the General Part of the Register was not disputed. However, to the intervention of the then vice president, today's Prime Minister, the Agency has changed its opinion within 24 hours and said no, the Registry cannot be published. This way the body cannot work with authority and credibility, because it turns out that someone broke a whole series of regulations and entered into the general part of the register data that must be in particular. That is why we do not trust the Agency either, so we were much closer to the solution that a special Commissioner was introduced as a secondary element in this whole story in the direction of protecting the rights of users to public information. The government refused to do so with arguments that it was about new additional costs. If we were to really assess the costs of not implementing this law, how much damage is caused by the state budget, by the local budgets of this kind of treatment of the importance of this Law, then we would actually see that this is a ridiculous argument and that the cost of one commissioner and his office is nothing compared to all this money that leaks from public sources, where it was actually stolen both by hand and hat. And not only at the state level to be clean, but it also happens at a micro-level and in smaller amounts, and in many units of local and regional self-government, where the civilian's supervision does not or does not make it impossible for citizens to have access to information about how their money is spent. What I want to say in the end is that one of the fundamental interests of every democratic society is to establish with a firm authority with clear authority that will respect the laws and is also clear, and unwavering civil surveillance. If we do not realize that this law can provide efficient public supervision not only of public finances management, public resources at the disposal of the state, local self-government and other public authorities, then the situations we are now witnessing, which are filled with Remetinec, will continue to take place. We do not want it, we want a more effective law, in this sense we cannot support what the Government has proposed because we do not think that these are strong enough changes, or that the key problems that have arisen by not implementing this Law will not be eliminated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64798	Thank you, we have one correction. Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64799	Thank you very much. At the beginning of his presentation, counterpart Beus argued that the proposed amendments and additions do not bring any changes. That's not true. In fact, the proposed amendments and additions are very important in improving the existing law. I will only make one point which is quite significant in my court and that is that the appeal procedure is arranged in a way that appeals against the first-degree solution as a second-degree body decide an independent body for the protection of the right to access information, further there is no appeal against the second-degree but administrative dispute and resolution in the administrative dispute and second-degree indication is made that it must be hasty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64800	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64801	I thank you, Mr. President. I am the truth I was in the coalition with the HDSSB, but I am still a member and I think and remain a member of the SDSS. Mr. Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the SDSS Club, will say that we support this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Access to Information because we think that access to information is, above all, the possibility of obtaining timely and correct information on the gains of developed modern democracies, something that today needs to be a predominant goal in future times and something that we as the Serb community treat as too important to address certain issues. In addition, in the latest amendments and additions to the Constitution, a special accent has been put in place to edit access to information. The right to information by us is a public good and should normally be available to all citizens. These are mainly facts and information that can be important for individuals' private decisions so for business decisions for investors, and besides for certain segments of the population, they can be important decisions to return to, to go to other premises, etc. The real information above all is the basic human and civil right and awareness of it in society should build both NGOs and the media. So the awareness of the right to access information should be built by everyone. Because of all this, it's perfectly normal that this institute was under special attention, that its implementation was analysed, and I think it's a very good analysis of how NGOs have done, as my predecessor said, ahead of that quality analysis of GONG's predecessors. What I'd like to say here before the law analysis itself is that by reading these analyses they've conducted, research, we can't be satisfied with what has been seen in the implementation of the existing law through a cross-section. I think even in a particular segment of the law, a red warning lamp is lit. I'm going to say here a few things that I've seen reading an analysis that has come from certain NGOs that are very successful in tracking this problem. In 2009, a survey on the right to access information was carried out and the results showed that, within a 15-day period, 69 out of 177 requests were answered, which in some cases said that 39% of the total number of applications submitted had been realised as soon as more than 60% of the public authorities had failed to comply with the basic legal provision. By comparing these results and those from 2008 we come up with data on the decline in the number of responses received within the legal deadline, which is a very important premise when it comes to the quality of the implementation of this law. According to data for the past year from 4000 public authorities which are obliged to submit a law enforcement report, only 688 did so. Therefore, by reading these analyses, we note that when we analyse all the bodies of the public authorities covered by the research in terms of their response to the request for access to information, we conclude that bodies generally provide answers beyond the legal deadlines, and which imposes additional costs on applicants, appeal procedures and waste of time. Some public authorities do not know the procedure of the law, but some public authorities are very well aware of and know the procedure of the law and use that knowledge in order to avoid giving a concrete and substantive response to the applicant’s request. For example, whether the bodies provide a response or are invited to mark the document by a certain degree of secrecy without applicants being able to verify whether it is true or not. Furthermore, we see from the report that an alarming number of bodies is completely ignoring citizens' demands. In addition, the catalogue of information prescribed by law as the obligation of the public authority has not yet been adopted by certain municipalities. I could count 20 here, but that's not so important right now. Some bodies of public authorities are not considered public authorities even though they are listed as public authorities for 2009, such as Zagreb Holding. It concerns the increase in the number of public authorities calling applicants on cell phones, although applicants have not left any contact number, suggesting further information on the applicant and represents in some way harassment of citizens. During the call, the representatives of the body seek clarification as to why the applicant has asked a particular question, ask applicants to withdraw the application or withdraw the complaint. Also, as in recent years, public authorities are not inclined to provide documentation such as a copy of a contract, an account or the like. The study reiterated and pointed out the problem of the absence of an independent institution, which my predecessor spoke of, which would carry out a test of public interest within a reasonable period of time, thus assessing all the arguments and deciding whether the arguments against the publication of information and arguments in favour of the publication of the information. The Court of Justice does not decide whether the public authority should provide information or not, but only to verify whether the legal procedure is respected in any particular case. In order to implement the information process, citizens must spend more than 6 months writing a request, a complaint which sends the same body that refused them a request, an emergency and ultimately a complaint to the Administrative Court. If in this procedure it makes the slightest material or formal error, the request is rejected and they are therefore even obliged to pay very high costs somewhere up to a thousand kunas. The latest example of ignoring citizens' demands is the Office's case of areas of special state care, a regional office in Vukovar that does not provide data on housing lists for citizens' search. So, in what way does a certain category of citizens have a chance to exercise their rights if we have this kind of ignoring of the administration. So, we have the conclusion from all of this is that the following is that we have a situation again that we have quite good laws, quite normally solved this social problem, but unfortunately we have bad or almost no implementation in practice, we also have the ignoring of our obligations, and that such one behavior is not sanctioned at all. I'm going to say about the law itself that when the reading is done, it's the law. It is also nomotechnically elaborated according to our assessment, and it is good that Article 3 defines a wider definition of users compared to the previous definition of authorisation holders. It's mostly one legal category that lawyers could elaborate more widely. In Article 6(4), it is unclear how public authorities will determine some public interest or how much of the proportion is to be achieved and how to define it, this ratio to the objective to be achieved. Article 11(3) well provides for a first - degree solution, thus entering the administrative dispute, and as soon as it enters the administrative dispute, it is likely that it removes the possibility of reaching the so - called. the silence of the administration, i.e. up to the abuse of time limits in these administrative procedures. Otherwise, we think that these kinds of requirements should otherwise be addressed by positive or negative solutions to the solution institute. Article 13 introduces a two-stage decision, so a shift has been made in relation to the previous solution where we have had some objection to the same body that previously made the original decision. In Article 15(2), in our opinion, the compensation of the material costs determined by the Agency for its work and the compensation criteria for these material costs should be more transparent, so that we know and that the public knows how much it would cost to seek and obtain a particular type of information. And in conclusion, we think that the Data Protection Agency, which should be some kind of independent body of labour control and promoter and the main role in the implementation of the Information Institute, should be well organised and teamed up because of its high expectations in future times. So all of these negativity and negative phenomena, failures, system ignorings in certain cases should remove or indicate that it determines and removes this particular agency. We therefore give great importance to the legal solution and the legal form of how this agency will be regulated as an independent body. I said we'd accept this kind of amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64802	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64803	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. The public and openness of the public authorities to citizens are a prerequisite not only for the development of democracy but also for the effective repression of corruption for which we know how much damage it causes to society and how much it is holding back its further development and the right to the availability of information that these bodies have, among other things, is necessary for the control of their work by the Croatian public. Thus, the Action Plan in the Anti-Corruption Strategy, which was adopted in 2008, is one of the measures proposed to amend and supplement the Law on the right to access information. In addition to the above, it should be said that the right to have access to information available by public authorities is one of the fundamental human rights guaranteed by the Croatian Constitution, the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as well as international agreements. The most recent amendments to the Constitution have been made to this direction and the basis for consistent legal exercise of the right to access information owned by public authorities has been established. In addition, a constitutional basis for legal restrictions on the right to access information which must be proportionate to the need for a restriction in the case of a prescribed law is laid down and, if there is a need to withhold information from this legislative proposal, it is mandatory for the public authority to adopt a solution by stating the reasons for this shortfall. This means that public authorities will deny access to information if it is classified by the degree of secrecy adopted under the law which prescribes the confidentiality of information or is protected by a law governing the protection of free data. The public authorities will also deny access to information in the event that its publication would prevent the conduct of a judicial proceedings or the execution of a judicial decision or punishment and, for example, would prevent inspection or infringement of the right of intellectual property, except in the case of the express written consent of the author or owner. However, it is envisaged that the public authority will allow users access to and information which is denied under the law, clearly if such behaviour is necessary in the public interest to achieve a law of the intended purpose and a proportionate objective to be achieved as we maintain a positive step as an institute and a public test is introduced. Therefore, as is apparent from the above, it is fully regulated to exercise access to information rights and to define restrictions, but in such a way as to make it compulsory for the public authority to state the reasons why it is denying the requested information if there is a need for such information. We believe that this is a positive solution that will contribute to greater availability of information to citizens, as well as a provision on the prescribed fines from 1000 to 5000 kuna for a responsible person in the public authority who does not specifically establish a catalogue of information, i.e. which does not provide an annual report on the implementation of the law within the prescribed deadline. Thus far, practice has shown that in this sense a certain number of public authorities did not respect this legal obligation. We consider, in particular, the determination of an independent body which will decide in the second instance on all complaints from users for which the Personal Data Protection Agency is proposed to monitor the application of this law. As good as any law is, we know that the most important thing is how this same law will be implemented in practice. Citizens, in order to protect their rights, should be most interested in it, and yet there have been some difficulties in achieving that right. In this respect, we also welcome the decision to exempt from paying administrative fees in proceedings before public authorities. It is also positive that the circle of those who are obliged to act under the law has been extended to legal persons whose programmes or actions are partly or entirely of law established as public interest and are wholly or partly financed by the state budget or budget of units of local or regional self-government, as well as by companies in which the Republic of Croatia and the units of local and regional self-government have separate or joint majority ownership. Finally, it should also be said that civil society organisations have positively assessed the final proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the right to access information as a step forward towards respect for human rights and the fight against corruption. In the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party, we believe that such a solution will help to facilitate the right to access information and thus have a positive impact on the work of the public authorities in terms of their greater openness and the removal of potential obstacles that citizens before have encountered, which will certainly strengthen citizens' confidence in their work. The Croatian Peasant Party's representative club will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64804	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64805	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club considers this to be an extremely important law. Transparency, openness, public administration is of course a fundamental assumption of democracy but not only that is a fundamental assumption and a struggle against corruption. Besides, as my predecessors have also stressed the right to access information is one of the fundamental human rights. This is what the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says, according to the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Convention on Access to Information and a number of international agreements. However, we are not sure that we all agree on this finding. In particular, we are not sure that there is a political will of the motion for the necessary fundamental changes in the first creation of a quality legislative framework and the second in the implementation of the law. It's a lot and I'd say too many reasons to doubt the existence of political will. As the first action plan and the Anti-Corruption Strategy was adopted in 2008, and it took almost two years for a law that has only 25 articles and which has been written on 10 pages and which has been in practice for more than seven years on the agenda. Secondly, a large number of appeal procedures and administrative disputes clearly speak in favour of the fact that the law has not achieved its essential meaning, its essential purpose and purpose. And thirdly, I think it can serve as an argument about the lack of political will. Croatia has not yet ratified the Convention on the right to access the official documents of the Council of Europe. So it is more than justifiable to ask a number of questions from this place and to express doubts about the substance of the changes we are discussing today. Are the changes we are talking about today really a step forward? After all these years of bad experiences with this Law, couldn't we have needed better and more. Whether amendments to the Law will now make it easier for citizens, but above all, more effectively to seek and obtain information from the public authority. Are we going to disable public administration from respecting deadlines, from giving formal but not contentious answers? Shall we prevent the citizen from being dragged into months of outwitting and straining over the secrecy of information? Could the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data be an independent body to monitor the implementation of this Act? Where did the Commissioner of Information go, etc. etc. On behalf of the SDP club, I regret to conclude that the government's relationship, I mean the ministry and it becomes slowly a general practice, so the Ministry's relationship against the profession, with the interested public, against the civil sector in the process of lawmaking, in the process of amending and supplementing the law very much how to say underpriced and rarely incorrect. And I believe that we're all a little tired of some kind of quasi public debates that aim only to satisfy the form and that can be said there's a public debate being held, and in the end somehow the ministry always makes as they please. We know reliably that some important elements of the draft legislation agreed with the profession, which have been agreed with the civil sector, are left out, and of course above all I think of the Commissioner for Information. You're trying to convince us, Mr. Secretary of State, that it's the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, that it can and that it wants to do a good job of monitoring law enforcement. I'm sorry we don't trust you, and we don't trust you for any more reason. First of all, who chooses the director of the agency? That's what government does. Then the question is, logically, how can it be an independent body if the director of the agency chooses the government. Secondly, my colleague Beus has already mentioned this, but it would be justified to ask if we are talking about an agency that was involved in a scandal with the defence registry. Is that the same agency that said one thing first, and then after the Prime Minister's intervention something completely different in just 24 hours, colleagues and colleagues? Yeah, that's the agency. Third, the government has recently abolished quite a number of agencies. Who guarantees us that this is not fate and this as soon as we pass the law. Can you, Mr. Secretary of State, guarantee us that this Agency will not be for the purpose of implementing the Economic Recovery Programme as well as abolished. And finally to think seriously that the Agency can and will do its job which this Law requires you to offer us, in parallel with this bill, changes and additions and some other laws – the Law on the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and the Personal Data Protection Act in order to strengthen the independence of the Agency. And here, of course, is the key choice of the head of the Agency. You would suggest that, therefore, the Director be the Commissioner of the Parliament as the Public Attorney and to be elected here in the Parliament, not in the Government. Unfortunately, the amendments to the laws mentioned above are not announced until 2011 and I believe that for the end of 2011, which is not good. The Institute of Information Commissioners exists in a number of European and other democratic countries, too many now to list them all, and Germany, and the United Kingdom, and Serbia, and Slovenia, and France, etc., etc. Their function in these countries has proved to be extremely useful. For example, in the neighbouring country of Slovenia, the information commissioner managed to get the president to publish a list of guests at the reception paid by the state, or taxpayers. It also managed to make state subsidies for farmers, to make data available. It's not the devil you're afraid of. I think everyone's clearly in need of a person like that. At a public hearing held at the Ministry of Administration, most of the present representatives accepted, so they supported the version with the commissioner, so if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Secretary of State, so even you did it. So you defended it with arguments that the Commissioner proved to be an excellent solution in other countries, even in neighbouring countries, and that fighting corruption costs money. Well, of course it costs. But it seems that since then, since that public debate, you have changed your mind to this day. The arguments of Minister Mlakar that the Government could not accept, and I am talking about the first reading of this law, so the Government could not accept the second-degree, a proposal for second-degree protection to access information through the Commissioner for Information, because this would unnecessarily create a cost at the time when the Government implements the economic recovery and savings programme, so the statement is at the very least worrying. If there's nothing else to worry about. The government is fighting corruption, isn't it? And what's more important? Is it more important to spend on the Commissioner and his office or on billions of dollars a year being poured out of the state budget on the basis of corruption? I could quote the opinion of an association, because it fully reflects what we as a club represent. They claim that the state has no money for this function is considered offensive and dangerous because the costs and damages arising from corruption of ignorance, but also the decline of citizens' confidence in the institutions of the state are immeasurable and most expensive. And to increase the transparency of the state and the fight against corruption should simply not be spared because it is the opposite. So this act of the government can be considered, or cannot be seen as an expression of political will for the greater transparency of government and the fight against corruption, because the battle against corruption with zero kunas is a pre-lost battle. So the fight against corruption is just a declarative act and we at the SDP club believe it is indeed so. In addition, the quality implementation of the law and the education of the body of supervision and of the public authorities will require investment in the personnel and material resources of the body, which will be carried out by the agencies. Of course, the proposal itself does not specify what amount, and I think that should have been stated. Well, the director himself, the current director of the aforementioned agency, says that the agency needs to further team up, learn how to run the analysis. It would be better if the agency could get more people to do those jobs, he said. The government approved another man, however, is not enough. A large part of the funding will be provided through a 2m-euro type project, which the agency reported to the tender. So the funds are necessary, the funds will be provided, and that's not an argument that we don't have a commissioner for information, gentlemen. That's what I was gonna say. So not just that. In the long term, it is assumed that the Commissioner for Information would be paid multiplely because of the redistribution of part of employees from other public authorities, because of the reduction in court cases which would be largely resolved by the Commissioner for Second Instance, the Commissioner as a Secondary Body, and the reduction of the scope of the work of the Ministry of Administration in the collection of information and reporting to the Parliament and the public. My colleagues and colleagues, the SDP club thinks that the bill we are discussing still contains a lot of dilemmas, that it contains still a lot of suspicions, they are related to the judicial procedure, for their price, their urgency, it is justified to ask whether amendments to the law will speed up the work of the Administrative Court which now solve cases within 6 to 8 months. It remains, of course, a question of non-compliance with the Law on the right to access information and the Data Securitisation Act, etc., etc. But what is extremely important is that citizens have lost confidence in institutions. That's a fact. So far experience is responsible for that. And it would be sad to see that the changes have been made for formal reasons, and everything points to that, and in order to meet the conditions that Croatia must meet for the closure of Chapter 23, we will, of course, be sure of the right motivation of the proposings, but because of all that I have said, the SDP club will not support the proposal of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64806	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64807	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the distinguished colleague incorrectly claimed that the Institute of Information was a European solution which was accepted as such in all or most European countries and that Croatia would not accept it. This is incorrect because, on the contrary, you also have in the light of this bill, this model, the model with an independent agency, accepted the next European countries, so Belgium, and France, and Hungary, and Germany, and neighbouring Slovenia and Switzerland, and the United Kingdom and Monaco. So this is exactly a European solution with an independent agency and everything you have said to the Commissioner as a person of the Commissioner for Information to you in terms of debate and allegations does not stand, just as your claim that this one, you specifically stated, is not fighting corruption. So who, in terms of both the action plan and the implementation of the action plan, is fighting corruption if not the Government of the Republic of Croatia? So an absolutely incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64808	HDSSB club Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64809	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. It is true that there is a loss of trust in the institutions of the system and it is a very long period of time that citizens do not trust in these institutions. It is true that the government is mentioned here as a public authority, although the word government is not so good since each of us or any of us and also the citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not want anyone to rule it. For this reason, the meaning of the word "government", which is so literally understood, is also linked to the inability to come to information timely and complete in relation to the issues that citizens of our citizens are interested in. So I would say that one of the reasons for losing confidence in the institution, in public authority or as someone said one of the reasons for sin, the structure is precisely a lack or inability to access information. And it is in this society and in this country one constant, one phenomenon that we have all experienced and many citizens on their skin even more. I'm not going to mention cities or cities and its administration, I'm not going to say intentional power, but exactly where the civil question is asked, and then it's waiting two months to explain a variety of reasons, or if you get that argument after two months, then it's incomplete and that I say you can't see exactly what the citizen is asking for. The Law on the Protection of Personal Data is clearly linked to this Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Access to Information, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, the Commissioner for Information, and it is all in one car from which the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government, the Ministry of Administration, issued one law, this Law bears an E-label although as someone said here from the opposing parties, European practice is even different everywhere is not the same. But the fact that we, or even Parliamentarians, get very often information not through our questions and discussions in this House, but through newspaper articles. That's right. For example, the last example that the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent a note to the Slovenian Government in connection with the arbitration agreement and without the Assembly's conclusion on what we discussed as an add-on to this arbitration agreement, the signing of an arbitration agreement, in order not to prejudge the Croatian sea, or the Croatian border line at sea. That's what the press reported, we Parliamentarians don't know. Furthermore, as citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we do not know anything about what our authority or the government negotiated on a chapter on agriculture, as someone here mentioned Slovenian subsidies in agriculture, we do not know what she negotiated. If we have the right to access this information, is it a state secret, top secret as they say somewhere or we have the right, not only of the parliamentary representatives but also of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia if they have the right to access that information, not only of this chapter on agriculture but also of all the chapters that have been concluded but also of those that are open and where there are certain I will not say disputes, but certain problems or in negotiations with the European Union. But we leave the European Union and the negotiations and we go after our local powers or authorities because it is a public authority for which, if it is called public authorities, the bodies of public authorities, that is what predominates and implies the public of work. It's called public, it's wanted clearly to imply the public's work. Someone calls it transparency, and I do not know the obvious, there is a Croatian word, so this very public work, public authorities or public authorities contributes to development and democracy, and primarily contributes to an anti-corruption element in Croatian society. Clear corruption has affected everything from the state to the smallest local authorities, in municipalities, cities and counties, so both regional and local administrations and self-government, and beyond that anti-corruption element, the public work of public authorities or public administrations, I would use a better word to contribute to the supervision of the work of the administration or how the word of public authorities is used here in the text. In point 3, which is changed and read, the information is therefore written, drawn, imaged, printed, recorded, magnetic, optical, electronic or other data in an individual object which makes up the content of which is available or supervised by the public authority. Again, the public authority, I really disagree with that, there are administrations, etc. But it's a nomotechnics thing, etc. Article 4 refers precisely to what I said in the opening section, which is that the information required and which the citizen has the right to obtain unless it can be obtained by virtue of the provisions of the Law, from judicial, administrative and other legal data. The point is that this information must be timely, complete and accurate. We have most of these problems in some competitions, etc. where a competition is announced in the daily press in some middle or city, a centre that is not even close to the place where the competition is called. Like what? that a tender is being opened in Slavonia and it is published in the Voice of Istria or in the Rijeka New List. Now, the citizen has information, but I guess he'd have to buy all the papers to see where it's a job contest. So I'm talking about the elements of a fine corruption or a fine way of avoiding responsibility for these things in the event of a competition. So, when it comes to timeliness, then some kind of limit of some kind of time period should be determined in relation to that. Furthermore, full information, I myself asked questions to the city administration, the county administration, etc. again, I will not deliberately tell the authorities of these local and regional (regional) self-government, and very often I have received very formal answers. What's hidden from the hill is that I haven't even been able to prevent myself from doing my own question, or at least to narrow it down a bit, or at least to say to those who were doing corruption and crime, only after a few months it was seen, and from the answers I was getting, looking for timely complete and accurate information, I couldn't see that anything was going on. That is why, by respecting the reasons that the colleagues of the SDP have said just before saying about the SDP representative club, so one of the supervisions that I need to say may be European and if this one is marked by the European law that you have promised that someone said and promised by the end of 2011, I don't know why we're bringing this one, so we'll change it again in half a year, a year. And the HDSSB Representatives' Club will not support this Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the right to access information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64810	Thank you. In 10.57, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. An individual debate. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64811	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the debate, I would like to say that I will not support the adoption of this final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the right to access information, because I believe, unfortunately, this law will not bring any positive change in respect of the rights of citizens and citizens to obtain information from the public authority. In this context, I must conclude that absolutely everything in this law, as well as the government's behaviour towards a public debate procedure on this extremely important issue of raising democracy and civil values in Croatia, points to a clear conclusion that the government proposes this law for one single reason only, in order to formally satisfy the conditions set by the EU before it in the negotiations. Although the first impression that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Administration realized that there were extremely serious problems in terms of respecting this very important law by the public authority, which the SDP club has warned about for years and not only during the debate on reports on the implementation of this extremely important law, the situation is unfortunately not so. The document shows that the government and the ministry do not consider that there are problems in implementing this extremely important law, they see the issue as another formal obstacle they need to skip to detain the door to chapter 23 of the Croatian Government of the difficult chapter covering the judiciary and corruption. And as long as it is so until the government understands the real importance and role it creates and quality implementation of this law has for democracy and achievement of civil values society in Croatia the law processing this area will only be a dead letter on paper. Or in other words, there is no real political will in the Government of the Republic of Croatia to force public authorities to comply with the provisions of the Law on the right to access information. What can we see from this law? From several elements which were discussed among other things and on all parliamentary committees that discussed this law and also on the GONG round table on this final bill which was also held in the Croatian Parliament. As the first and most obvious argument confirming the formality of this proposal, the Government's decision is that the second-degree body which resolves complaints about the non-compliance with the right to access information be, or so on. an independent body for the protection of the right to access information, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. Why am I speaking so-called An independent body? Because the body elected by the Government of the Republic of Croatia rather than the Croatian Parliament can be very difficult to be an independent body which, in the second degree but through other issues, reports, education, administrative training, proposals for amendments to legal solutions, etc. Ensure that the policy is an independent, quality implementation of this law. In this regard, I would like to illustrate the independence of this agency from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, for example, on the issues of the publication of the defence register. In fact, although the agency first held that there are no legal obstacles to the publication of the register of defenders, later or after the intervention of the Prime Minister, it changed its independent opinion and found that the publication of the register would be contrary to the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act, and that all but all in Croatia should be very concerned. Another reason that speaks in favour of my claim that it is formal reasons for the adoption of this law, rather than the real political will to ensure that this extremely important law is respected, is that this bill does not allow for a clear, simple and effective procedure according to which every citizen and citizen of Croatia can request and obtain information from the public authority. In addition, on the GONG round table, Mirjana Jurčić, judge of the Administrative Court, also warned of the poor provisions of the laws concerning the urgency and comprehensibility of the prices of the court proceedings. However, although this proposal does not require the payment of administrative fees for obtaining information, it is not intended to exempt from payment of court fees, which will certainly greatly demote dissatisfaction with the dissatisfaction of citizens and citizens with the right to vote on the requested information by judicial means. In addition, we must be concerned about the government's unwillingness to initiate the ratification process of the Convention on the right to access official documents of the Council of Europe, as it clearly indicates that there is no political will in the ruling parties to ensure conditions for free and smooth access to information for Croatian citizens and citizens. I hope, although I am very skeptical that this law will bring about at least one positive change, which is a more quality report on the implementation of the law that we will discuss next year, or that at least this report will not look like an egg before, as it has been cloned, and as it has been the case so far. Although we are representatives and advocates, at least we from the opposition, always very critical of the proposal's report, it has not so far driven it to consider the critical remarks that MPs and MPs from year to year account for the report and the implementation of the Law on the right to access information and to do something to change the report and to correct the implementation of the law. Perhaps the Agency for Personal Data makes a positive turn and draws up a more quality report than the previous ones, based on new provisions concerning the content of the report, but I am very skeptical. If one ministry failed to ensure quality law enforcement, it would certainly not be in a position to an agency. As a result, we testify year by year that there is simply no political will to seriously implement this extremely important law, one of the fundamental tools for fighting corruption. I fear that in the future, despite these amendments to the law, it will continue with unacceptable practice that only those requests for access to information specifically called for by the Law on the right to access information, although this is not defined anywhere in the law. Given that the authorities are not in the interest of being open to the public and transparent in their work, such demands will be simpler and will be ignored in the future. I remind you that half a year ago, the SDP Club sent the Proposed Law on the Commissioner for Information, which would have changed the legal framework in a way that, through Commissioners as their own Ombudsman, citizens and citizens, they were more easily and faster to exercise the right to access information that had been disabled by the law so far. Unfortunately, as a result of the increasingly rigorous HDZ party control in public authorities, a constant decline in the number of requests received for access to information is recorded. Of course, there is, and that is what civil society claims, something drastic is wrong, i.e. the fundamental role and task of the Law on the right to access information that was adopted in 2003 at the time of the coalition government led by the SDP. Our goal was to raise transparency of the work of the public authorities, and thus raise the quality and responsibility of the public authority. And these responsibilities have been repeated for years or years since the HDZ government is no longer present, and these are aware of the reports made by the Ministry of Administration and, as well as well-trained parrots, repeat phrases about how information is available, publishing information on websites and so forth. Of course, the fact has been ignored that the number of lawsuits to the Administrative Court has increased dramatically year by year, and I guess this points to some conclusion, which is that the authorities are not being dealt with by demands, so they must seek their right in court. The current non-implementation of this extremely important anti-corruption law speaks of the following. For several years now, they have been implementing a deliberate policy of closing the public authorities' bodies from citizens, media and the public concerned because of awareness that they will not receive information even if they repeatedly ask the public authority for it. Citizens in a smaller number are looking for information that suggests the great intransparency of the government's work. The rule of this law considers a non-essential and meaningless document, a disturbance and the leaders of the public authorities marginalise the importance of implementing this law, and such marginalisation by the ruling policy, in general speaking and in their own organisation, are recognised by information officers who largely carry out this job sloppyly. On the sloppyness of law enforcement by competent officials, it tells us that very rarely phone calls are entered, e-mails that are certainly reached by at least a few in every body of public authorities. This final draft of the law has disappointed me because it has confirmed the dramatic fall of democratic standards in Croatia and the increasing intransparency of the work of the public authority in the last few years, and the obligation to provide information to citizens by companies owned by the state or units of local self-government will not significantly improve this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64812	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64813	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Holly, you said that violation of the right to access information demoralizes citizens. Well, not only to demoralize them. We have a case here fresh where due to violation of the right to information about the fasa factory in obrovec, the factory so-called. The shrubs, but actually the cements, limes and paints, so the citizens have that gathered to find information. They received a misapplication because they asked to see a private study on environmental protection in connection with that factory where the study says there are no open waterways, Zrmanja at 500 meters away, that there are no tourist attractions, that there are no geomorphological findings in the Zrmanja canyon, that there is no low and high growth and maquis, beware of this, that there are no archaeological sites etc. As a result, citizens who gathered for information received a misdemeanor report. Not only have they been demoralized, but this misapplication has actually further strengthened them in their belief that they need to get real information about the new Ovrovac, under quotes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64814	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64815	My colleague Grubisic, you are absolutely right that what is even more worrying in this case that you have mentioned is that there has not only been a violation of the Law on the right to access information but there has been a violation of the Environmental Protection Act which implies public debate on all documents that have some effect on the environment. In addition, there has been a violation of an international convention, which is the Archuscan Convention that was ratified in 2007, and the Archdiocese Convention implies public co-decision in all the processes of decision making on the meaning of projects that have an impact on environmental protection and public right to inform the public about such projects. So this is about a whole series of violations of many important laws and I would say international conventions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64816	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64817	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Now that we have already passed the Law on Access to Information in 2003 it was indeed one new one in our legal system to fit into the order of developed countries, that citizens have the right to know what executive power is doing. Of course, to encourage and inspire all these countries that are willing and many because they are forced to give more and more information to their citizens. Since then, it's been almost seven years now. We've been changing the law, and whether our citizens in that time or group of citizens or associations were getting information the way that the law was even originally being stabilized. Unfortunately, they didn't. But there were brave judges, the president of courts who didn't hesitate to punish the prime minister either. The truth is that they were no longer judges, or they were not, lost the position of the President of the Court. And by doing so, the government has shown what it thinks about citizens and their, about them, the impudence to ask certain information. We are talking about zero tolerance against corruption in all our mouths, and on the other hand information is being kept secret, the most information that has a financial background is being kept secret because these are most interesting to citizens, and that authority is the most secret. So, first of all, this Law should look at the proposal to amend the law in light of the very basic Anti-Corruption Act, that a citizen, a group of citizens, all those powers that the law has marked come as soon as possible and in as short a time as possible to the right information and that the government of any state has any local units here do not scrutinise or distort and that the answer is given precisely and specifically to a particular question. But if that's what it really is. When our colleague, when my colleague Marin Jurjevic asks the prime minister where the money from Brodosplit is, and he says, "I know who your grandmother was, I know who your uncle was." And the ruckus comes out as he skillfully answered the question. And that's something in our mentality. So for a politician who is asked a very specific question when the truth is avoided then and the media often, they often say a skilled good politician or when children are small, so when they answer the question older, something will be of him, he will be a good politician. So we simply have to change such a perception of politicians, but of course we force them by this law simply so that the government behaves in a different way and that those who lie and who do not respond to the citizens are punished. The greatest crime in developed democracies is not often what a certain politician has done, but whether he has lied. In our case, a lie, especially a lie by politicians, is considered a virtue to lie to those in power. And these lies and the empire of lies, we see where it has led us not only to economic, but also to moral break-ins. When the prime minister answers the question of sanctioning certain or what happens to certain people the media is talking about, it responds to the long and wide proposed laws. And then he says but you have the same in your ranks and those. So please! So is that the answer to the question? Yeah, that's a mob response. It's a mob response if it's carrots and beatings. So, I'll talk about you, I won't call you for anything even though I can, but if you dare ask me something, then I don't have a carrot for you anymore than a beating. This cannot be such behavior, but it should be answered politely within the time limit. If it cannot be answered, a deadline such as ours and the Rules of Procedure shall be left without speaking by law. So we need to learn that avoiding an answer is not a virtue but a flaw and that it must be sanctioned in one way or another. I think we can achieve one unanimity about it. So stop with that kind of political practice. What, what newspaper does this Law bring? It brings much more administration, not something that should be simplified and something that stems from the will of the authorities to open up and not hide. Everyone in this sense new bureaucratization of these things separates us from the real purpose of the law. So what we have here today is that what really matters is security, the question of the secrecy of certain procedures, which must be a secret, and that no one has ever answered why it became a public matter and then was threatened, many public interests are at risk. So we have a situation that what is secretly becomes public, and what must be public remains secret. We and today, unfortunately, are in this problem. This bill, as they had said before, before me my colleagues did not contribute to it, not to simplify things, but to complicate them. We even now have the three-step treatment. I'm asking you to give me one of the most common information. The basis is publicly challenged by an independent body which is then given special deadlines. 30 days has to, so if the thing's a little more complicated then another 60 days. It's a depletion. And then only after that, after finality can the administrative dispute be initiated. So no more public, and that search engine doesn't really know because life went forward. Some questions have also become much more current and thus avoid giving the right answer because the point is precisely not to give the answer anytime, but to just be given on time because then it is its purpose. Because then the ability to control is the most effective. And I think a good authority that's open, that's calculating, that has nothing to hide from its citizens just that one opening can help her. Because often people have unfounded doubts about certain clean things. But if it is not said to the public quickly, transparently, then what is transparent and what is not questionable by the law in public is still perceived as being suspicious and that there is no clean business. The proposed law that speaks, therefore, of the establishment of this new independent body which we see as only one administrative barrier here in the SDP, because it was quite enough to protect the legal path from the Administrative Court. The promoter says no new funds are needed. However, here is the assessment of the resources needed and states that certain funds are needed. So here's the assessment of the necessary means of law enforcement in point 3. In order to implement this Act, additional resources must be provided from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. But there is no saying which means, and this is what the Proposer is obliged to do because, in that sense, the provision of Article 139 of our Rules of Procedure which says exactly what the proposals must have, and in particular the bill's proposals. In a case like this, the Rules of Procedure also predicted, so for a case like this, there must be a report. So, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget must meet and determine that they are fulfilled, i.e. that the funds in the state budget for the implementation of this law have been provided, because we are passing any law, without the means provided we are embarrassing ourselves really extra, and we are humiliating our image here already, in public, because we are passing laws that we are not going to be able to implement tomorrow. So we better get rid of this one dead end, which is why we're cutting ourselves a branch on which we're sitting. We are often not able to implement laws that are provided with financial resources, let alone in this way. I'd still like to say, there's a whole series of nomotechnical mistakes, too bad this bill doesn't go into two readings, so we really get an even better law, but in this way, when there's a final proposal ahead of us, then at least until the motion is passed, you should at least fix the text a little bit more in that sense. We, here, and I join my colleagues precisely because of the final bill's proposal, if first reading were elements to support it, and this way I can't support a bill like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64818	Thank you. Corrections, Ms. Representative, Ms. Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64819	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here is a series of incorrect allegations from colleague Anticevic, in which she reads her homework in such a ignoring tone as she can. Among other things, she said there was no government's will to fight corruption, which is not true. One, here's exactly this law is in reality the one that talks about it. Maybe they're afraid and they won't vote for it, because the citizens are also very interested in how much lunch it cost and why it's bearing the name of the restaurant, maybe it's some kind of EPP, and then it gets, they're very interested, they want to know how to fly, they've never got that answer, and maybe now that's going to get it, because it's going to have to be explored. Besides, my colleague Anticevic, this is a second reading, so I don't think I should read it, this is a second, maybe in a third you think you should go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64820	Thank you. And Mrs. Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64821	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting the inaccuracies of a colleague who says the prime minister won't respond to certain cases and turn to the other side. That's not true. Just now, the prime minister and her government have created all the preconditions for fighting corruption, but turning to the other side, you know why? Because cases being prosecuted are mainly cases from the Croatian Democratic Community, and interesting cases from the Social Democratic Party are missing because they are being covered up. I wonder why.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64822	Replica, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64823	Thank you. My colleagues, I think the Law on the right to access information can only be passed in a package with the Law on Lies, so if you are looking for information and you do not get it then the other Law on Lies should say that the one who lied to you will be strictly retired. It is also necessary to adopt a Law on privileged information. Let's say you buy the land that... for three months of changes... [[You don't understand.]] It becomes constructional, so you become very rich overnight, then the one who gave you such information and who participated in it should be very punished. [[You don't understand.]] And about what happened here is that when you ask questions in the middle of the Parliament, as I asked, so you get the answer you got, it's just that in the end she wins from that bass or the story or that folk in Emperor Trajan's ears, and then eventually they blow up playing and the flutes about what's true, so if the truth doesn't come in the door, it comes in the window, and in the end it all comes out. But let's just say it's so unusual, I've earned a number of applications for what I've asked here, and I've been asking public questions, among other things, public harassment applications. So if someone thinks they're harassing the public when you're looking for the right information, then we really won't get far.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64824	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64825	Here is the biggest problem I've ever pointed out, which you refer to as the truth is really exiled, and that many of those who have spoken the truth have ended badly. You're still well and gone, because telling the truth about power is often disturbing the public. Well, it's finally time to upset the public with the truth, because the truth, we all know it's the only one that's free. But what, in which we're in trouble with the law existing and we expected it to be at least as solved. The one who hides the data often labels them and classifies them himself. So he puts that code of secrecy and a certain degree of secrecy. And of course it's more of a problem and on the other side of the law that top secret, i.e. the highest degree of secrecy, will have exactly that document. That's why we expected that in a bill like this, no one could hide because they were going behind secrecy because they were committing a crime. Well, some of them are by nature that information must be secret, but if abuses of authorities and laws and illegalities are different species, it can't be and always be more difficult then interest, public interest, a test of the public and it must stop in the law. Once again, let me point out that unless a lie is punished by government officials, we're not going to achieve anything. And I say and I repeat, unfortunately, it's still a virtue in our society.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64826	Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64827	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues, Ingrid, you mentioned earlier in your discussion that, when we ask some information, that's essentially the impudence to ask. Unfortunately, it is also a message, in most cases messages to our citizens, and the inability to access information is actually a cause of a loss of trust for our citizens. And then we're not surprised by the fact that we have an increasing number of requests for access to information. It is a practice in Croatia. Well, here we have heard today from others that even Parliamentarians do not have, very often they do not have the right to access information. And we know that since June 2010, the Constitution has actually incorporated the right to access information as a reflection of democracy on the one hand, that is, the fight against corruption on the other. We may also be bold when we criticize the agency, and when we say it's an agency, the agency is not an independent body. And what's left of this message is that simply because there's no political will that this is actually politics let's get used to and give up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64828	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64829	Well, this amendment to the law where another body is introduced is, in that sense, an obstacle, to administering people to be bored with the exorcising of such justice, especially when they are not fighting for their own personal interest, but for the public interest. So that's exactly how when an individual or an association is found fighting for the public interest, that society, that the state lets him just, that encourages him, that gives him timely information, and not that because he dares to ask, that's what we have at local level, that we don't fool ourselves into a whole series of problems. And then people see it, his neighbors, his friends, it expands, they see what that message is, that the man who asked a certain question, stuck his nose where he shouldn't be, got hit by problems, and then that's the message to stop you from doing that. And on the other hand, we're going to have the law, we're going to talk about the fight against corruption, how opening up, the transparency of public authorities is any level of our primary interest. So people see that one thing is spoken, and the other one seems to be our big problem, which we will not get out of by law, but by their application. And that's why it needs political will first and foremost.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64830	Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64831	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of my presentation, I would like to point out that I will support the adoption of amendments to the Law on the right to access information. The proposed amendments and additions propose important improvements to the existing Law. The Law on the right to access information is also harmonised with the acquis of the European Union. A fundamental human right to freedom of information, while the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees access to information available by public authorities. It is this Law that enables access to information, natural and legal persons and may be required by state authorities, units of local and regional self-government, legal persons with public authority, companies in which the Republic of Croatia and local self-government units have separate or combined majority ownership. It is important to point out that these amendments and additions to the circle of public authorities are being extended and that the provisions of the existing Law are complemented by the principle of timeliness. Furthermore, the exercise of the right to access information can only be limited in cases and in a manner prescribed by law, in which case the public administration body is obliged to make a solution in short, by giving a reason to deny the information. The exceptional public authority will also enable users to access information that is legally denied if such behaviour is in the public interest and necessary for the achievement of the law of the intended purpose and the proportionate objective to be achieved. The appeal procedure shall be governed in a way that decides, in a complaint against the first instance solution as a second-degree body, an independent body for the protection of the right to access information. An appeal against the second-degree body is not permitted but an administrative dispute may be initiated. An independent body for the protection of the right to access information other than the tasks of the second-degree complaint resolution authority shall report to the competent authorities on compliance with the obligations of the public authority authority, propose professional training and training of information officers in public authorities shall give an initiative to adopt and amend the rules for the implementation and promotion of the right to access information. The users of the right to access information shall be free from payment of administrative fees in proceedings before public authorities and shall establish uniform criteria for the collection of the actual material costs of the public authority. All public authorities have an obligation to submit reports on the implementation of the Act independently of the right to access information. An independent body for the protection of the right to access information shall submit a report to the Croatian Assembly on the implementation of this Act. The activities of an independent body for the protection of the right to access information will be carried out by the Personal Data Protection Agency. It shall also determine the liability for the offence of the responsible person in the bodies of the public authority which does not provide an annual report on the implementation of the Law within the prescribed time limit. On the basis of the above, and given that this legislative proposal harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, I support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the right to access information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64832	Thank you. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64833	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, to assess the range of the Amendment Act and the additions to the Law on the right to access information would be the easiest way to use one hand to give you the right, and the other hand we take away those rights. That's the best picture of the bill. Why do I think so? First of all, this matter has been resolved or tried with several laws, one of these laws on the right to access information, but other laws on the confidentiality of data, the Law on Information Security, and the rules, and ultimately we have to ask ourselves whether citizens will be able to obtain information on how the Sunish Hvar was privatised when there was no law on public-private partnership and it was privatised by this model, and there was a law on privatisation of companies and it was not privatised under that law, so the privatisation of Sunny Hvar was carried out outside the law and the citizens could not get that information. Will it be easier for citizens to obtain information as to why part of the Treaty between the INA and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the takeover of a gas business directly affecting the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is excluded? Not colleagues and colleagues, and that's the fundamental problem of this entire system that we're talking about today, which is called in the Constitution, and that's how it should be, that's fundamental human law. But that fundamental human right has multiple consequences to say so. Without clear rules on access to information and without the protection of these rights and rules by independent authorities, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia cannot carry out a fundamental task, which is democratic control and democratic oversight of the authorities, therefore we are talking about the foundations of democracy. Is the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data qualified to be independent and qualified to have a test of public and proportionality? It's not for any more reason today. First of all, the problem of appointing and managing the agency itself is the second problem of the section of the agency. In fact, the agency is and under this law is the administrative body that corresponds to the government. The administrative body, why the administrative body? Because they will oversee the implementation of this law. In Article 17a, the Agency is therefore responsible for overseeing the implementation of this law and reporting it to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as the Government of the Republic of Croatia is responsible for the Croatian Parliament for the implementation of the law. So there is no talk of the Agency's independence from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, nor is it possible to ensure this law. I'd like to ask if I can finish. So there's no way the agency is independent of the letter of the law. If we add this, and this is for now the most independent institution, it is the Public Advocate, or the authorised Croatian Parliament for the Protection of Human Rights. So we have an institution that is authorized by this Parliament to implement, monitor the protection of human rights in the Republic of Croatia. If we wanted to be honest with the citizens and build a system of access to information, then it's no more logical that a Commissioner for Access to Information was added to the Ombudsman. If the government really wanted to be responsible and honest with the citizens, then there is already an authorised institution from the Croatian Parliament, it is the Ombudsman who, on behalf of the Croatian Parliament, follows the exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the Republic of Croatia. And now, of course, the government didn't want that, and we know the reasons, and now I've listed two, because it won't be known how privatized the Sunny Hvar is beyond the Privatisation Act and beyond the Public-private Partnership Act. The government does not want the Ombudsman to establish a public test and says that the important component of the INA contract to take over the gas business must be revealed, because this important component of the contract is the price to be paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, because it is not good to know because next year's elections are for God's sake. So the government here is completely dishonest and completely irresponsible when it is represented as regulating the issue of access to public information, and then other colleagues are urged that it exists for agencies to oversee the implementation of these laws in other EU countries as well. And then I have to say, is the law completely copied from those states? No, it's not overwritten, it's taken what can be legitimate that it is, and it's not. So we know that the whole of the restaurant school solves the whole thing, not just part of it. Only part of it doesn't solve it. Therefore, we know that there are different solutions in EU countries, but ask any citizen in the Republic of Croatia, and they will tell you whether democracy and the democracy system in Greece and Switzerland are the same. He'll say he didn't. Therefore, if we are to rewrite the Swiss model, let us rewrite the entire Swiss model and enter everything in Switzerland in this sense well and in Croatia. We're still not gonna have the results of what they're like in Switzerland. But we can't just prescribe that the agency is an independent body, not an independent body. We can't do that, so we can't go forward. If we cannot provide citizens with the right to access information, the citizens will not even know what happens as a rule of the majority in Croatia, so after how many years they find out about the affairs that took place in 2004, 2005, we now have the situation we have, the least confidence of the citizens in the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. And then we can't talk about a serious fight against corruption, because the fight against corruption implies a very high confidence of citizens in the system's institutions, and even citizens will participate in the discovery of corruption affairs. And how for God's sake they're going to participate when I can't get information the way it's done in the countries of high democratic standards that you're calling here, and you're just copying one piece. Such a solution will not bring fruit.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64834	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64835	Thank you very much. Well, it is an incorrect quote from his colleagues, and it has repeatedly repeated that the agency does not have the elements of independence and that it is not independent and that it corresponds to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This is absolutely incorrect because the agency is independent and not only corresponds to the Croatian Assembly but also has a duty to the Croatian Assembly on this issue to substantiate and report. And as for the models that have been accepted, therefore this model is indeed, regardless of what you think about it, so the model that is present and elaborated on these amendments and additions to the law in most European Union countries is therefore as one of the models, as a quality legal solution that is now being translated into these amendments and additions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64836	Ms. Representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64837	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's Agent Leko, in his debate, said, I'll quote him, that only the government is responsible for the implementation of the Law on Access to Information. I agree with Leko that the government is also responsible, but not only the government but also local units are responsible, so the authorities in local units, and that is very important. One example. I, as a representative in the City of Zagreb, cannot get five days of one information, I repeat five days. I must look for you as a representative from the City of Zagreb so that you can establish me to get that information. ... Mr Leko, three years ago I warned very much here in the Assembly about corruption, corruption, bribery and everything else in the City of Zagreb. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's when you were on my right, and the left, you were all on your feet, and you denied it. What is today, today we in the City of Zagreb have 8 billion losses, and the budget in the City of Zagreb is for 2011. Six billion and something. Answer me if you can on those questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64838	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64839	And don't act like you're the most honest. Honesty should go from being honest to being different.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64840	Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64841	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think we will all agree that in the fight against corruption, especially in the prevention of corruption, transparency, knowledge and responsibility, we represent.../The speaker has been excluded./... Please don't exclude me, because if you exclude me, you deny citizens the right to access information which clearly shows how much you care about information. ... /The noise in the hall./... Equally a prerequisite for transparency, a prerequisite for knowledge, a prerequisite for accountability is precisely the right to access information. It is therefore clear why ensuring the right to access information is crucial in the fight against corruption. It is equally clear why it is precisely effective to prevent conflicts of interest, better regulation, funding of election campaigns and the work of political parties to access information, with evidence of the effectiveness of the jumping vertical by increasing the number of judgments that are legally condemned. The key civil association that has played a huge role in assessing the quality of the Law on the right to access information is GONG. In 2009, GONG conducted a remarkable project called LOTUS. I would recommend to all MPs if they didn't read to read the project because it will allow them to learn a lot about the right to access information. The project estimated how much, meaning LOTUS is therefore local, responsible, transparent management and self-government, and unfortunately evaluated and calculated that only 16% of local administrations are transparent. So colleagues and colleagues, the fight against corruption is being fought at all levels, from the smallest municipality to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. No government has been vaccinated from corruption, and transparency and the right to access information is the way to vaccinate in the fight against corruption. So only 16% of 556 cities and municipalities in Croatia met this project of transparency, accountability and openness to citizens and other stakeholders. And I am proud to point out that the highest rating was given to the city of Rijeka, so from 1 to 10 cities in Rijeka, according to this project it was rated 8.8 which proved to be the most transparent city in Croatia. The average rating, colleagues and colleagues, in this survey of GONG was 3.8 of the possible 10 points, which shows how much the problem of transparency and the right to access information is great in Croatia, I repeat, from the smallest municipality to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The rating of more than 5 received only 65 cities, so because of these last cities, here I will list the first five, with Rijeka it is Čakovec, Karlovac, Osijek, Crikvenica and Viskovo. They deserve all the credit. Non-transparent or partially transparent estimates of 84% of cities and municipalities. They were assessed on the basis of an analysis of their public action, cooperation with civil society and compliance with the Law on the right to access information. Unfortunately, just the worst result was in the dimension of the right to access information, so let me quote on page 20, which is exactly what it says about it. So, precisely because of the bad results in this category, we believe that only five cities and municipalities that had all the indicators needed to implement the law on access to information should be highlighted. It is Lumbarda, Ozalj, Osijek, Rijeka, Gradište and Zadar, and those in this research represent a golden league as regards the Law on the right to access information that the rest of 84% of cities and municipalities that behave non-transparently should be seen. For this very reason, therefore, the huge contribution that GONG has made to improving the right to access information would quote their conclusion in connection with today's law. Therefore, GONG, and I fully agree with this, says the final proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the right to access information is a step forward towards respect for human rights and the fight against corruption, but there remains doubts about the existence of real political will for essential changes, not only in the legislative framework but also in the implementation of laws and changes in political culture. So I agree, and I will repeat that I am truly sorry that we did not find enough strength and insisted on the first proposal that was related to the Law on the right to access information when it was considered necessary to introduce the Commissioner. So there was such a proposal in the first reading, and I am sorry that it did not insist on staying because the person whom you would choose as a public defender here in Parliament would be much more independent than it was proposed in the current solution. What I particularly wish to emphasise is that in the five annual studies of GONG concerning the application of the law. So it's not enough to pass the law. The law must be implemented in practice. Only research where 100 to 150 requests were submitted annually to public authorities at all levels and I repeat again from the municipality to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, by conducting a series of appeals procedures, administrative disputes. GONG has proved defeating the fact that the Law on the right to access information does not make sense, that is, that the Law on the right to access information does not guarantee the exercise of that right unless the public authority from the municipality to the Government of the Republic of Croatia wishes to make the information available. So, colleagues and colleagues, if the smallest municipality in Croatia, if any ministry, if the Government of the Republic of Croatia decides not to provide information, it will do so. How's that? This seems to be a skillful combination of non-compliance with deadlines, silence from the administration, providing formal but not contentious answers, looking for reasons to seek information and calling for its secrecy. The more persistent applicant information was complicated in months and several years of procedures, i.e. requests, complaints, silences, corrections and additions and disputes, and ultimately do not get an answer. It is particularly sad for colleagues and colleagues, that the key ministry of closure of the 23rd chapter of the European Union and the European Commission, namely the Ministry of Administration which is proposing today's law, which has been in breach of the decision of the Administrative Court and has not responded to the GONG's request regarding the contract concluded with the APIS IT company in Zagreb. So he refused to answer under the Law on the right to access information. The Administrative Court has ruled in favour of GONG but remains the Ministry of Administration, which should be a bright example for all others, does not implement the decision of the Administrative Court. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, this Law may mean a certain shift. However, we in Croatia have a big problem with law enforcement and changes in political culture. So take another example that is almost paradoxal. In the story of zero tolerance to corruption, in the story of the importance of the right to access information, the HAC administration decides to adopt a regulation declaring all information by secret information and, of course, it absolutely shows that it does not understand that zero tolerance of corruption means the right to access information. So transparency, accountability, the right to access information and the protection of whistles is something that should be a priority for this Assembly when it comes to the adoption of every law. And I really regret that we did not find so much strength that this Law shows that we are fighting corruption by every decision we make because after this law, there remains one bitter taste in our mouth that we did not do what we could to make an additional step in ensuring the right to access information as a key way in preventing corruption from the municipality at the lowest level to the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the highest level.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64842	Thank you. Corrections. Ms. Representative Vesna Buterin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64843	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting Mr Jovanovic, a colleague of Jovanovic, who says the city of Rijeka is one of the most transparent cities in the Republic of Croatia. It's completely and absolutely incorrect. This can be seen every year from the State Audit Report, and here I will remind you of Mr Jovanovic you, as deputy mayor, also receive these Reports from the State Audit for insight. From year to year in Rijeka, money has been spent untransparently and unintendedly, and 149 million unintended budget money has been spent over the past few years. What does "unintended" mean? That means against the legal provisions. In addition, Mr Jovanovic in the city of Rijeka is not respected for public procurement procedures, so the State Audit found that more than 16 million kunas were conducted without respecting the Public Procurement Act. In addition, we, as city councilors, have asked countless times in Rijeka to give us an insight into all contracts and annex contracts, multimillion annex contracts when it comes to overpriced projects. In Rijeka, of course, we never got them, and that is proof of how transparent the city of Rijeka is and how it is right to access information in the city of Rijeka.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64844	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64845	Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 209(2) Let me read it. What's wrong with you? Why are you nervous? If the representative asks for a word to correct the incorrect allegations, the chairman will give him his word as soon as the speaker delivers a speech. In his speech, the representative must be limited to correction. Otherwise, the president will take away his word, and the representative's speech cannot last longer than a minute. So, my colleague Buterin spoke in her correction of what I had never talked about, and I have written proof that the city of Rijeka is the most transparent city in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64846	It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Buterin was just explaining your inaccuracies. The second correction is an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64847	Well, here's the incorrect statement that a colleague, Jovanovic, can't get quality information under this law. But all countries have information that has a code secret, so there's this country. However, I wanted to say, here are the congratulations that the city of Rijeka is transparent. I'd translate it, so I'd say that the city of Rijeka is transparent enough, and I hope that the DORH and the UskoK will understand that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64848	Correction Mr. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64849	Mr. President, it is an incorrect assumption that GONG's assessment of transparency is a safe way of fighting corruption because it would not certainly have been selectively asked by the city of Rijeka to bypass the main issue, and that is 80 million kuna of city money in private pockets. Is that your transparency?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64850	And as the last one to discuss this item of the agenda is Madam Representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64851	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is after a whole series of discussions on my right which went in the direction that he would not support this final proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the right to access information I will support him for the following reasons. So these amendments to the law are designed to achieve constitutional right to access information, and let us not forget here all the time talking about the lack of political will of the ruling majority, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to open public authorities, that it is free to access information, but in June of this year, the Constitution which has raised this right to one of the constitutional rights, which then guarantees its protection, and in the final instance and constitutional protection. Of course, the Constitution also sets out what limits these rights can be, always proportionate nature and need for limitations in each individual case, and necessarily in a free and democratic society. Furthermore, this proposal for a law meets all the convention provisions, i.e. the provisions of the 2008 Council of Europe Convention on Access to Official Documents. We have heard these remarks that Croatia has not ratified this Convention. That's right. The Convention has only been open for accession since 2009, but Croatia has this very law makes all the basic provisions of the Convention include in its national legislation. So when it was quoted here several times and the round table that GONG organised in November this year, about the proposal of this law, where all the statements from that round table were then quoted and about the slightest shortages of that law, but of course none of the speakers on the right mentioned the allegations made by GONG representatives themselves, which I am reading here, so the final proposal of the law included most of the remarks and recommendations coming from civil society organisations, opposition, authorities, but also the European Union as a broad concept of the body of government. So if we're going to objectively show something, then let's show it all, not take it out of the context of a particular quote and quote. So, as I said in this bill, the provisions of the convention were generally adopted, for example, and these provisions are essential, not cosmetic, as it is stated here, but essential, and we're going to put it in a few examples. First of all, it is the introduction of a central second-degree independent body for the protection of the right to access information. This is a significant improvement compared to the first reading. Someone here mentioned that in his first reading he was an information commissioner, which is incorrect. So in the first reading, as a second-degree body, there was a central authority of the state administration that is responsible for the area from which the question is raised, and it was really awkward and it was difficult for a citizen to find this second-degree body that would be competent, so I think it is excellent and we have proposed that a central second-degree body be established. We have also heard a number of complaints that the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data is a body that is subject to government, a body that is under the influence of the Government. I remind you that it is an independent agency, that it is an agency that is responsible for its work to the Parliament and that it reports to the Parliament on the work. The fact that the head of the agency is elected by the government does not mean that the agency is independent, it is about what we all have to learn, and the leaders of independent agencies, so that they have integrity and independence and that if they need to do something independent and independent, then of course they can't be, they don't have to and shouldn't be afraid of their position, so they don't do something just because they're afraid of shifts, because the shift is not a loss if they do their job fairly and transparently. Furthermore, this law also meets the criteria set out in Chapter 23 of the fight against corruption. These criteria have established that transparency and integrity of the public administration need to be ensured and that it is necessary to work towards improving the legislative framework on the right to access information. I remind you of the 2008 anti-corruption strategy, this was drawn as one of the, one of the tasks and criteria and the same revised 2010 action plan. What I consider to be an extremely good newspaper in this law is an extension of the obligations to provide information, which is, in addition to the public authority, an extension to legal persons whose programmes and actions have been established by law as public interest, and are wholly or partly financed from the state budget or from the budget of units of local and regional self-government, as well as companies in which the Republic of Croatia and local and regional self-government units have separate or combined majority ownership. Why is this good? It is good because in this way the public gets insight, that is, if he wants to gain insight into the spending of each budget kuna, whether the state budget, or the budget of local units. Therefore, this is what is meant by all those who have received certain benefits, because their activity has been identified as an activity of public interest, or because they are financed from the state budget. It is also good that this bill sets out clearly when the provisions of the law do not apply, because there was a confusion in practice, so they do not apply when the availability of information and judicial administrative and other information is established by law, or when the information has already been made public or is available by the basis of another regulation. Furthermore, as far as this issue is concerned by the agency, but rather than saying that it is good for the first reading that it is an important observation that if the body does not issue and is not obliged to issue a solution, the applicant must then seek information about it without delay to inform that it can take any further steps. And I would point out, because there's been a lot of talk about solutions, whether the agency is a good solution or not. I repeat that it is an independent body, that it is a solution to the size of eight European Union countries, but clearly if it is objecting to a complaint, then we have heard such complaints of the type and what if within three months the agencies were abolished, what if it were. So I have to say that in the economic recovery programme in the area of rationalisation among the authorities of the state administration, it has never happened that in the adoption of the Rationalisation Act, some of these entities simply lose their jobs. Therefore, certain jobs that exist and which are still needed are only redistributed within the same bodies, so this objection is not standing at all. And in the end, I will support this law because I consider it a democratic step. All these remarks we have heard on the right are at least odd, the party has changed the Constitution twice during its term of office but has not been entitled to access information raised to the constitutional level. She passed the Law in 2003 in which she was able to install everything she said into the Law, but now it's strange when we are improving on the trail of democratic improvements to then object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64852	We have two replicas. The first is Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64853	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's a colleague, you may have forgotten to point out that there is no real transparency of the body of local, regional, state-owned and state-owned institutions until the following categories of transparency are made clear, and until they show themselves loud and clear to the Croatian Assembly. I have placed them in some five categories concerning Rijeka markets, Zagreb toilets, large-scale buses, Koprivnica purgatory and resorts, and the fifth category of transparency I would certainly like to stress with great satisfaction that we expect an answer to Daimler’s fire trucks worth 4.3 million euros as soon as possible. When the gentlemen are shown in a transparent manner to the Croatian public, Croatian citizens and representatives of the Croatian Parliament and MPs will certainly be pleased that transparency exists in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64854	Mrs. Anna Lovrin's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64855	Thank you very much. Well, fellow MP, it is our job to pass laws to ensure transparency and openness of the work of the public administration. And as for what you're talking about, we've heard a sentence like this today, on behalf of the SDP Club, that there's less and less demand for information because people and citizens know they're not going to get it, so they're not looking for it. I'm now asking how GONG did research in Rijeka if there was even a question about the right to access information because maybe there they know they're never going to get some answers, so they don't even ask anymore, so that's good, but I really don't know that because I don't know the GONG methodology, so it can be anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64856	And the replica of Mrs. Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64857	Your Honor, Mr. President. It is not common for us to report for the replica on Friday afternoon, but it is encouraged by an interesting text published on the Dubrovnik page at the moment. Nat, the title is "Protectary guards the Council of Journalists." So it's being held this morning, which is why Mrs. Lovrin... you are transparency and needing openness to the work of city and other administrations. In any case, this is an example of how SDP and HNS practice this openness. It is the Assembly of the Komunal Society of Vrtlar, it wants to hide how a municipal society works and prohibits journalists from accessing the assembly and putting on a security guard. The page is Dubrovniknet. Hr., "The Protector keeps the Council from journalists" so much about the transparency of the Social Democratic Party and the Croatian People's Party that are currently leading Dubrovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64858	Here's the answer, Mrs. Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64859	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues Shuica, the access to journalists is solved by accreditations, I don't know how it was solved in Dubrovnik, but certainly I call on fellow MPs to declare these amendments and supplement the law, and then these journalists and the general public will also have the opportunity to come to that information in accordance with the procedure and despite the guards, in accordance with the procedure laid down in this law, and they will also have an independent central body that will protect this right and ultimately, due to constitutional changes, they will be able to address the constitutional court for protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64860	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on this item of the agenda when the appropriate conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64861	We're going to vote on the debated agenda points. First, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the right to access information, is proposed by the Government. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. State Secretary of the Ministry of Management Pavle Maticic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64862	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I suggest that I make a full statement on all amendments. The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts all amendments to the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-03-0.u64863	Thank you. They make up an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the right to access information. Please, let's get on with it. You can vote. The result? 73 votes for, one abstention and 29 against, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the right to access information, together with the amendments adopted.
