ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56041	Thank you, Mr. President. Appreciable MPs and MPs. Here is the report today on the final report on elections and the level of relatives spent on the election promotion of candidates and deputy candidates for municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb and on the costs of implementing local elections. The review was carried out on the basis of the provisions of the State Audit Act, the Law on the financing of political parties, independent lists and candidates, and was implemented from the beginning of September to the end of December 2009. In addition to this report, the Office also provided the Croatian Parliament with information on the financing of election promotions and the costs of the implementation of local elections by county and the City of Zagreb. The objectives of the review were slightly different than otherwise the objectives of the audit, because we did not have the financial reports classically but were only the Report on heights and sources of funds and costs. So our objectives were to verify whether the final reports were drawn up and delivered in accordance with the regulations, check the correctness of the statement of sources and the amount of funds and the cost of election promotion in final reports, check whether special accounts were opened for election promotion, check whether the competent electoral commissions had published the full final reports on the sources and the amount of funds for election promotion set out in the law, determine the costs of candidates and candidates for election promotion and determine the costs of local elections charged by the state budget and budgets of local units. I must stress that this report contains data relating to candidates and candidates for executives, although certain final reports of local election funding have shown a common profile for executive and representative bodies. On the basis of the results of the final report, 1763 individual reports submitted to candidates and also concerning alternate candidates were drawn up. I'll present the most important data from the report in a short time. As you know, in the local elections in May 2009 for executives in 576 local units, there were 1997 candidates and 2362 candidates, i.e. 4359 people. Following the elections held, candidates and deputies were obliged to draw up a final report on sources and the amount of funds collected for the financing of the electoral promotion and to submit within 14 days of the publication of the official results to the relevant election committees. Of the 1997 candidates, 1763 or 88.3% submitted final reports, and 234 or 11.7% of the candidates did not deliver. I'd just like to point out here that we sent 1280 calls to candidates and candidates at that time while we were doing it, and that's the result of some part. Of the 1763 final reports submitted in 315 and 17.9% respectively, candidates and candidates did not show sources of funds or cost levels and made a statement that they had not achieved or spent funds for the election promotion. The Law on the financing of political parties, independent lists and candidates stipulates that the holders of independent lists and candidates are obliged to open a special account to finance the costs of electoral promotion to which other means for such purposes are paid in addition to voluntary contributions. In addition to this provision, the State Election Commission issued an opinion on 9 April 2009 that releases candidates of political parties registered in the Republic of Croatia from the opening of these special accounts can already use the accounts of their political parties. The audit found that 145 or 8.2% of candidates opened a special account, mostly independent candidates, 784 candidates, or 44.5% financed election promotion through the political party's account, 55 candidates used the political party's account and their account, 28 or 1.6% of candidates used their personal account, jury account or current account or cash payment. Cash payment is mostly used up to 5000 kn. 197 candidates or 11.2 said they did not open a special account of 554 or 31 the entire candidate did not mention the account through which the election promotion was financed. It was all laid down by law what they had to do, and we here determined how many did not. For the purpose of financing the election promotion of 1763 candidates and candidates who submitted the final report, 1031 or 58.5 made up to 10000 kuna, and up to 50,000 kuna made them 1591 or 90.3%. Over 50,000 kunas achieved only 172 candidates or 9.7% of the total number of candidates and candidates. The implementation and monitoring of local elections is within the jurisdiction of the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia, election committees in local units, and election committees. Thus, 429 municipal, 126 urban, 20 county and commissions of the city of Zagreb, i.e. 576 electoral commissions, were assigned to conduct the elections, apart from the State Election Commission. The electoral authorities carried out all electoral actions and for the selection of members of local unit representative bodies. The final reports of the election committees have shown that of the 576 election committees, 288 or 50% published the final report but not overall, and the others were not published in local newspapers as prescribed. Of the 288 published reports, 75% or 26% did not contain the necessary data or data on individual candidates and deputies. In addition to the final reports of candidates and candidates with the aim of determining the costs of local elections in 2009, the State Audit Office also collected data on the cost of the elections being settled from the state budget and local budget. The most significant costs of local elections relate to the budgets of local units from which 153 million 624 720 09 kuna was spent to conduct the election. These funds have been spent on the remuneration of members of election committees of 54 million 284 5. Compensation for the work of election committees 47 million 281 771 53. Costs of election promotion of candidates and candidates amounting to 24 million 339 thousand 553 kuna. Material costs of 16 million 086 01 66 kuna. Compensation to professional staff of 7 million 234 065 79 and information support of 4 million 398 amounting to 153 million 624 712 09. According to data from final reports submitted for the financing of election promotion, candidates and candidates spent 52 million 782 thousand 649 09 of which for promotion services 32 million 510 369. For material and energy 10 million 650, and other costs 9 million. The candidates raised 54 million, spent 52 and something so that they had in their accounts excess income. All those independent candidates partyically, remains strangers because it has also funded. The costs of the State Election Commission relating to local elections amounted to a million 17 thousand 670 66 kuna, with regard to the cost of IT support services 634 thousand 448 kuna, the cost of promotion service 343 thousand 440, fees to professional staff 28500 and other material costs of 11 thousand 229 60 kuna. Thus, according to these data, which are not for candidates and candidates established for all 1997 but for 1763, 207 million 425 031 82 kuna were found to have been spent. Well, here we are in this brief presentation, and I just wanted to refer to some of the data that we came up with. I just have to say here that we've been looking into it, because neither candidates nor candidates were obliged to run classical accounting, but data on the height and sources of income and costs. So they weren't delivering financial reports. These reports on the amount and cost of funds were required to be delivered to election committees, and these election committees were to publish these data in local ballots. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56042	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56043	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the respected state's chief auditor with co-workers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At its 55th session held on 9 June 2010, the Financial and State Budget Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on final elections and the amount of funds spent on election promotion, local elections in 2009 as a home working body. Several facts have been pointed out after the opening hearing on the committee. That the State Audit Office has done an extremely demanding job, that the report in question is a positive step forward in a transparent manner to present the way in which the financial resources intended for the preparation and conduct of the elections are spent. However, it has been noted that the report shows that there are a number of unclear regulations and unequal criteria to be removed as soon as possible. For example, it is inadmissible that a certain number of candidates and candidates have not submitted a final report to the competent electoral commission, although the obligation to deliver is prescribed by law. The State Audit Office sent 1280 letters to candidates and candidates with a request for the submission of the report in question, but then as many as 234 candidates failed to submit a report. Of those 234 who did not submit a report, as many as 9 were selected as public authorities, i.e. executives, and 124 were entitled to compensation for election promotion costs in the first election round and 24 for cost compensation in the second election round. The debate also indicated that certain sanctions for non-compliance were lacking and that there should certainly be a step in amending the legal frameworks. It has also been warned that the amount of compensation paid to the competent authorities for the conduct of the elections is different, and there is a case at local level that has not been paid at all, and this is also an undesirable phenomenon to be prevented. After the discussion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, he decided unanimously to propose to the Croatian Assembly the conclusion that the report on the final elections and the amount of funds spent on the 2009 election promotion was accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56044	Thank you. Do the representatives of other working bodies want? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And on behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56045	Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam State Auditor, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Here I have not received word before, but I am also joining Mr. Stazic's initiative to discuss today these two points when it comes to Croatian broadcasting. I read in the paper that they're celebrating, drinking champagne. If that's why, to be cynical, we should be in a different mood, but I think that really, if that television didn't turn into a political service, we should discuss it, and we should discuss it just the same today, so that the way the TV bill doesn't change, so it doesn't happen tomorrow, I don't know, for example. That my father who has a counter in the stables must pay a TV fee for his heroes. But let's let it go now, so that I can go back to this information on financing election promotion and the cost of implementing local elections by county and the City of Zagreb. I didn't take your wrong paper, but I guess I forgot, I forgot one report. Wait a minute. There he is.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56046	I could interpret leaving the pay phone as if you were done. But you're not lucky, so you'll keep going. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56047	It's different here to interpret. Here's the report, it's got it. So this report on the final report on sources and the amount of funds spent for the election promotion of candidates and candidates for municipal mayors, mayors, mayors, etc. So the 2009 local elections here on page 13 cost a circus of 54 million kuna. Well, that's how much of these 54 million kunas have been spent by the parties, spent by independent candidates. Let me be honest, I doubt all these 54 million kunas and 23 grand, 54 million kuna, and 23 grand, well, it doesn't matter. I suppose it is under quotes incomplete data, but as we can see about a thousand 763 final reports for 127 cities, 429 municipalities, for 20 counties plus the City of Zagreb, this means 577 units of local administrations and self-government, where there were 4 thousand 359 citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Of these 54 million kunas, 30 million kunas, we see the parties, voluntary contributions amounting to 10.5 million kuna, the candidate's own funds are 8.6 million kuna. How many are those 54 million kunas? Well, it's a circus of about 7 and a half million euros. So the party's independent candidates for the local elections spent 7.5 million kuna. 54 million kuna, that's the equivalent of the president's office, 54 million kuna, that's maybe one-tenth of the funds received by the NGO civil society. Only the budget for civil society associations for this year has booked 623 million kuna, 54 million kuna is less than the budget of some union centres, mainly having bigger budgets than political parties, as many NGOs do far larger budgets than political parties. There's so much for an introduction. Or here, when we look at the elections in Istria, there were six and a half million kunas, of which the parties secured 2.7 million kuna, the candidate's own funds were 3.2 million kunas, etc., etc., although I personally think more was being spent. And yet according to other reports, perhaps this situation is only really shown in Istria, because it is amazing for me that some environments that have far more municipalities, cities, inhabitants, large cities, centres, etc. spend less. So these 54 million kunas, these are the costs of parties and independent candidates in the 2009 elections. Now here we come, which is why I answered, which is why I had to go through this report, page 22, and here we are talking about the costs of local units to conduct the elections. I was surprised when I read that making choices from the state cost 153.6 million kuna. What? ... Costs of local election units, 153.6 million kuna. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's the cost... The local self-government, the state, and the campaign costs 54 million kuna. [[You don't understand.]] So that's right. And now, here on page 22, it says to election committees 47.2 million kunas, election commissions 54.2 million kunas, professional staff fees, means those who have to put it in, etc. 7.2 million kunas, election promotion costs, means what they publish and invite people 24.3 million kunas, material costs, means ballots, etc. 16 million kunas, IT support 4.4 million kunas, a total of 153 million kunas 624 thousand 712 kunas and 09 limes. If so, then perhaps it is not far from the truth that a referendum on ZOR would cost 150 million kuna. But anyway, democracy I say costs, more precisely democracy costs nothing to fear, dictatorship, repression, uncertainty and so much clarity that unions are waiting to hand over their signatures. On page 23, it is then said: "For the conduct of the election 6 thousand 579 election committees were hired, which were usually six members, which is a total of 39,000 474 members. The fees to members of the election committees were paid in the amount of the aforementioned 47.2 million kuna or 23.3 million kuna net or 590 kuna net per member of the election board." On page 24: "For monitoring the implementation of the elections, 576 election committees were hired, each election committee had 14 members, totaling 8000 and 64 members. On the basis of these members of the relevant election committees, it was paid out of the budget of local units of kuna 54.2 million, 28 million kuna net, in most cases the fees to election commissions were paid in the recommended amounts but there were derogations." That's less important. Now, to conduct an election costs more than the spending of parties and independents, it's for the first time to be honest with me, but here's an example, in the County of Istria, those who competed according to state audits spent or we, I was carrying a list I had two icons in the Voice of Istria and that's all, means nothing. We spent in Istria all together and IDS, HZD, SDP these, independent, 6.5 million kuna, these were campaign costs, and the cost of the electoral administration according to these data is 9.4 million kuna. Or in one Dubrovnik, the parties spent a circus of 2 million kunas, a million and 996 thousand, and the conduct of the elections cost 6.4 million kunas or in the coastal-goran county for elections, the parties spent 4.2 million kunas, and the implementation of the 7.8 million kuna election. For some and for me until yesterday, the day before yesterday, when I pulled out that data, it belonged to a category of beliefs or not that this administration cost three times more than a campaign of political parties. The campaign lasts for 30 days, the conduct of the election takes a few days, and it surprised me, but when I see how many people are hired here, 10 thousand across the Republic of Croatia, then it just doesn't have to be investigated because I said there were 6 thousand 579 election committees who usually had 6 members, which is a total of 39 thousand 474 members. And to monitor the implementation of the election, another 8,000 64 members, etc. On the basis of all of this, it is clear to me that it is not my intention to apologize to the Government because we laughed at her when she talked about 150 million kunas for the referendum, clearly that when we talk about local elections, these elections take place in two circles, so everything must be double, or the real price of the referendum could indeed be about 90 million euros, 70, 80 million kuna, certainly not less. But it costs as much as I think it would be good to get to that nation grade they're thinking right now. In a way, through these signatures, the nation has spoken to the Rohatinski authorities before, I've been talking about it for years, and it hasn't been heard, it doesn't matter. You don't even listen to Rohatinski, you might listen to the people, so I'm taking the opportunity to give up those signatures. However, we will see what will happen, but I only wanted to point out once that this democracy is really costing, that the implementation of only one election in a year costs 153 million kunas, of course, for example, the implementation of parliamentary elections would be far more expensive but I personally think that they would come to us at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56048	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media announced meetings, the second extension of the Committee session today at 10 and 15, and therefore another 10 minutes in the Chamber of Josip Šokčević. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56049	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the esteemed state auditor with co-workers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The purpose of the national audit in this final report is first to get answers to several important questions and all of them are whether the elections or the spending of money, the collection were in line with the legal rules. Whether the regulations or spending money for election promotion were respected. One of the most important questions is whether the final reports are drawn up and delivered in accordance with the regulations. Under the law, candidates and candidates shall be obliged to submit final reports to the competent national commission within 14 days until the date of publication of the official results. The results of the state audit by asking for that answer must be said to be devastating. After a 14-day deadline of 64%, 1228 candidates have not submitted a report since 1997. It has not fulfilled its legal obligation. And after they fail to fulfil their obligation, the State Audit Office shall send a letter requesting that they be delivered to fulfil that legal obligation to complete the report. However, no 234 candidates submitted a report either. And 9 candidates who have not submitted the report will even be elected to the holders of state authority, as public office holders. And even 124 require and have and receive the right to compensation for promotion, and have failed to comply with their legal obligation, have not acted in accordance with legal regulations. The second question was important, whether the sources and the amount of funds as well as the costs were properly shown. In the 18 reports submitted, there were no sources and amount of funds for the costs, with a statement that they had not achieved or spent the funds for the election promotion. It is interesting to see that 18% of all submitted reports for candidates and candidates did not spend at all the funds for election promotion. I believe that the result of this would have been different if it hadn't just made an insight, but that a full review was carried out which wasn't possible in this case. There are positive things. It is positive that out of the total of 1448 final reports showing the amount of funds collected even in 98.5% of cases, sources and levels of funds were shown in accordance with the regulations and 97.3% of cases and costs were shown in accordance with the regulations. It was sought after the insight and the answer to the question whether special accounts were opened for promotion as prescribed by law and when seeking this response, the State Audit find is not encouraging. On the contrary, it points to a large level of political irresponsibility. This is the easiest form of qualification if it is evident that as many as 31.4% of candidates, or 554, did not specify the account through which they financed their election promotion. 8.2% of the candidates opened a special account and 44.5% used a political party account. And additionally to those 31.4 who have not shown at all which way they finance their election campaign, through which account, we can add 11.2% that they have not opened a special account, but have not even used the political party's account. Only 1.6% used their personal account. The 22 final reports identified irregularities in the context of the presentation of information on the means of electoral promotion, and some did not provide data on donors. Some reports do not state certain sources of donations, and some are shown jointly for donations both for the deputy and for the candidate who does not comply with the regulations. There have also been irregularities in the election committees. It is known that the State Election Commission made a decision in 13.5.2009 to make a recommendation on the amount of compensation for presidents, members of deputies and members of election committees, but it is apparent that individual election commissions paid more compensation than the prescribed or recommended ones, some commissions paid less than those recommended, and at some local level they were not paid at all. Such a situation is unacceptable and should work to bring the criteria into line. Following a more careful study of this State Audit report, several conclusions are needed. First, that the State Audit has done an extremely extensive, demanding and complex job and that this process has lasted for a long time despite human resources that were not enough for such a complex job. It is also concluded that the report is professionally, qualitatively and transparently drawn up. But also to conclude that it indicates the need for a slightly higher level of courage to enter into this report, which is if 9 candidates were elected as holders of executive powers and did not comply with the prescribed legal provisions, regulations, then imposes the need to know which candidates they are. And if we do, then the public will know who the candidates are, and if they know the public, then these candidates will have a different idea and a different idea in public than they have. They were elected, they got votes, they got trust that they would respect legal regulations, and they're the first ones who don't respect those names and names, and we need to know. Who are those who disobey, who are those who behave above the law, above the rules, who are those who do not respect your letter to deliver the report, they do not want to deliver it, and in the end they are still acting in public function. For each irregularity identified, the conclusion, more necessary and clear conclusion, is not that it happened in the area mainly and in that county but rather the exact name and name of which it is concerned, who committed an irregularity, in which area and in which city, in which municipality. Given that out of 576 electoral commissions, only 50% of them published the final report in the local official report and the means of public communication, local means of public communication, and that 50% of those published are not overall, there is a need for regulation of the forms and contents of the full final report of all election committees and the deadline of publication. It is concluded that it is also necessary to consider the deadline for publication, whether it is necessary to extend the period in which it is intended. This report points to the need to prescribe a specific form of financial report for the purposes of the final report, which must indicate data on resources according to sources as well as costs according to species. For now, that financial report is filled in as anyone wants. The need to form a unique pattern for all is imposed. A legal framework should also be developed to prevent the payment of election promotion costs to those who have not submitted the report. He doesn't deliver a report, and he gets an election promotion fee. Such a situation is not acceptable, and we must make it a way to eliminate such opportunities. The need to prevent compensation and those who did not comply with other parts of the legislation, as well as to prevent different payments to election boards from being paid. Why would there be a different fee to the election board in one place from another, let alone why would it be paid more than planned and not at all. Working on election committees is equally valuable everywhere and should adopt this unique legal framework, not to leave n a will to local individuals whether fees or fees for working on election committees will be paid. With everything that has been shown, the report was published in the final report on sources and the amount of funds spent on the 2009 election promotion for local elections is very transparent, content and the HDZ club supports it and will vote for its acceptance. But here is the need for even clearer and more transparent use of state resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56050	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's esteemed representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56051	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam State Auditor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Report on final reports on the elections and the amount of funds spent for the election promotion of candidates and candidates for municipal mayors and mayors and mayors of Zagreb, as well as on the costs of carrying out local elections in 2009. That's the title of this report. I'm heading pretty clear and detailed. And this report is also extremely, better said also clearly and in detail and all praises to the State Audit. They've been doing that job for four months. It certainly wasn't easy, because the fact that they had to intervene according to reporting bonds in 80, it seems to me 80% of all the debtors, according to 80% of all the debtors, says that the Office of the State Office for Auditing this job as well as all the jobs so far and has prepared and done it consciously and in quality within the profession. However, the key question is: I am now not going to repeat everything the predecessors have said and what Mrs. State Auditor said in the introduction that, in the whole process, is wrong, what is the number, and the numbers are terrible, the numbers are huge. That we still have nine executives today who didn't report it's the fact that we have over a hundred candidates who took it, because if they haven't filed the report, they've taken the money for the promotion. They took the others, but they were decent and correct, so they wrote such a report. But there are those who didn't write, who didn't write any reports and took the money for the promotion from the local administration units. Thus, a key question arises and is raised on the basis of all of this. We have one very high-quality work done, a job done, a report by the State Audit Office, listed a whole series of irregularities. And now the question is, what now? This report will be read, through this debate today we will have someone with more spirit, more likable or less likable words to discuss, give their own judgment and their views on this opinion. However, what will happen behind that? What's going to change behind that? I think that the question here in the Croatian Parliament is that we need to give an answer and we need to get an answer. The fact is that this election activity, however, is the first time that the mayors, mayors and mayors and mayors of Zagreb have been elected by direct elections under the new law. But this matter seems to be regulated by two basic laws. And the Law on selecting the mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the city of Zagreb and the second law is the Law on the financing of political parties of independent lists and independent candidates. The fact that in this first law, the Law on the Election of the Chiefs and Mayors is not prescribed almost no sanctions. So we have one law that does not prescribe and imposes a obligation, but does not prescribe sanctions. There's not a single sanction prescribed. And the fact that out of a whole series of irregularities that the State Audit Office has found, there are simply no sanctions. But it is also a fact that the Law on the financing of political parties and independent lists and independent candidates has been prescribed sanctions. And it is also a fact that, in this finding of the State Audit Office, there are certain violations that are sanctioned by this law that have imposed sanctions unlike the one that does not impose any sanctions. So it leaves one clear space. Number two. We have the State Election Commission, the Professional State Election Commission. The task of the competent national electoral commission is, among other things, the implementation and monitoring of elections, election committees of local units, election committees, etc. etc. 50% of the election commissions they took, so 50% of the election commissions didn't make an adequate report that was mandatory, and they took a fee from, I mean, the total cost of election commissions that went to the expense of units of local and regional self-government 54 million seems to me. So if 50% of them didn't make a report, in other words 26 million kunas were taken illegally. So the question arises to the State Election Commission, if it is competent, if it appoints, if it co-ordinates and gentlemen dearly what are you doing? Reading this report when I noticed this problem, in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, the State Election Commission is costing us, there is this item somewhere around 7 million kuna. So now I ask the question, which service do the citizens of the Republic of Croatia get from the State Election Commission? Did we get the election descriptions? What else did we do? Seven million kuna. And at the same time we enable and then we wonder why the electoral commissions we have appointed, the election committees that we have made possible, in those from the position of the State Election Commission, which we have allowed to do a responsible job, and for this job receive compensation, they receive compensation and do not do their job responsibly. If election committees in local administration units in municipalities, cities and counties had done their job, they would certainly have made reports, that the number of officials, the number of candidates who did not comply with these provisions, would certainly have been smaller, and certainly that the state, state-run, state-run audit office would not have come into the situation to intervene and ask for additional information from the candidates, when already those who were paid did not ask for it, asked additionally of the candidates to send reports, and then they got something, and still 230 and some of them did not even give it. We don't have a prescription form. We are now surprised that we do not have the prescribed form, because the Ministry of Finance has not arrived, the responsible people at the Ministry of Finance have not been able to prescribe the form, because normally for each financial report, the Ministry of Finance is competent to prescribe the form. They didn't make it. We don't have a uniform form for final reports. They didn't make it. Neither the Ministry of Administration nor the State Election Commission, all those involved in this entire system have arrived. And finally and now my question and the presidents of the State Audit Office. When these laws were proposed, which in themselves require your involvement in the conduct and control of this procedure, did anyone ask you for advice? Has anyone asked you for advice? If anyone in your line of work you do very well, I've been talking about the State Audit Office for years, so I think it would be logical and normal to ask who knows. And now, in the end, it's a question of all the questions, whether we want to have a system that allows irregularities as well as reading reports, and that's what practice says, I won't go back and I don't want to go back, open early privatisations, when the state, the Office of Audit also determines irregularities, but nothing happened to anyone, and in this case we'll accept this report as some fig leaf, we'll all be surprised it wasn't good, people didn't do their job, there wasn't transparently any funding of election campaigns, donations and all of this, we'll have a debate in the Assembly and still nothing will happen again. And my question is the question of the Croatian People's Party club, the Croatian party of pensioners, according to the competent institutions that can certainly find room for their work, which is their legal obligation, and now what? Irregularities have been identified, what will happen? In the expectation of this response, absolutely certain that none of you can give it to me, the question I asked the representatives of the State Audit Office we want to know, purely because of the public, whether those who are preparing legal proposals, who have to make an impact assessment, are determined by what is also a legal obligation, the impact of certain implementing, certain legal regulations on implementation, impact assessment, whether anyone or anyone has contacted the State Audit Office to make a system, a system that will not allow or will not allow us all to be surprised by reading the reports, the institutions that should... We're also surprised, and behind that, nothing happens to anyone. [[You don't understand.]] The Croatian People's Party Club, the Croatian People's Party accepts this report with all these questions that we have referred above all to those who need to react, above all those who, whose duty it has been in their work so far to prevent these marifetteluke but now that they have happened to react and to hear who have not done their job in accordance with the law, especially those who have taken the money from the units, from the budget of the units of the local administration, and have not done their part of the job.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56052	Thank you. It is the turn of the HSS Club, the distinguished representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56053	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished Madam State Auditors with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. For the first time, we've been able to discuss a State Audit report like this. For the first time, there are concrete data and indicators of what is spent on and whose money during the election campaign. The Croatian Peasant Party's Club welcomes and supports this report, not only because of the exhaustion, i.e. the abundance of data, but also because this report represents an exercise of control over the legality of the conduct of candidates and their deputies in the spending of financial resources in the electoral process, and because of the introduction of order into political culture through the enforcement of the legal obligations of candidates and their deputies, but also through the detection of shortcomings and irregularities, or the reasons for their efforts. It can be considered that this report represents a major step forward, especially given the fact that the legal framework has been created only recently, but also the observed shortcomings or irregularities spoken of in the report indicate that the vast majority of our local officials accept, respect and implement their legal obligations. During 2009, local elections were held in the Republic of Croatia for the first time in which the municipal mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors and mayor of Zagreb were elected to the 4-year term. At the same time, the choice of their deputies was made, in the same way and in the same procedure. The candidates and deputies of the candidates for executive holders were obliged no later than seven days before the election day to submit an early report to the local unit's competent electoral commission on the elections and the amount of funds collected for the financing of the electoral promotion. In addition to the early report, they were obliged to submit a final election report and the amount of funds spent for the election promotion to the local election committee within 14 days of the publication of the official election results. Out of 1997 candidates 1763 or 88% delivered and 234 or 11.7% of candidates failed to submit a final report. 870 or only 49% were delivered within the legally prescribed time limit and 893 or 50% of the reports were submitted. Of the total number, 1763 of them delivered completed reports in 315, i.e. 17.9% of the candidate and deputy candidates did not show sources and the amount of funds and costs, with a statement that they did not make or spend the funds for the election promotion. Of the 1448 final reports showing the sources and the amount of funds collected in 1426 or 98%, sources or levels of funds were shown in accordance with the regulations. And in 1409 or 97%, election promotion costs were shown in accordance with the regulations. The largest number of candidates and candidates who have not submitted the final report have run in local units in the areas mentioned in the 5 County report, not to mention them now, and we at the HSS Club also believe that the public should, in addition to those names of the counties, name those candidates who have failed to comply with their legal obligation, because it is clear that tomorrow their behaviour of their complex liability obligations is questionable in accordance with the Law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that The Law on election of municipal mayors and mayors, mayors and mayors of the city of Zagreb, the competent local unit commission should have published a full report on the sources and the amount of funds for the election promotion of all candidates in the local official ballot and local means of public communication. The audit found that of the 576 electoral commissions, 288 or only 50% published a final report in the local official vote and local means of public communication. Of the 288 published reports, 75% or 26% are not complete, i.e. do not contain part of the data or data on individual candidates and candidates. And here we also feel that it is necessary for the competent institutions, first of all, to think about the state election commission to take certain measures to bring the electoral commission into order here and to respect the rules. The implementing rules do not specify the format and content of the full final report and the reports are drawn up in different ways. Some reports contained data only for part of the candidates and candidates and did not indicate why they do not have data on other candidates and candidates from that area. Furthermore, the reports of individual election committees contained data for part of the candidate and alternate candidates and for other candidates and alternate candidates indicated that they had not submitted the report to the electoral commission. In some cases reports have been published exclusively on boards of local units which do not comply with the legal requirements. Some election commissions have published reports via local radio stations, on websites, and one through local newspapers or daily or weekly, which was also not in line with legal regulations. In a prescribed manner, electoral commissions have acted which have published the full and final report in the official local vote and local means of public communication. The most significant funds are achieved by political parties of more than 30 million kuna, and from voluntary contributions or donations of more than 10 million kuna, over 8 million kuna or 16% of total funds were made from their own sources. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that The law on the financing of political parties, independent lists and candidates, the holders of independent lists and candidates are obliged to open a special account to finance the costs of election promotion. And voluntary contributions and donations for the financing of election promotion are paid to that special account. In order for voluntary contributions or donations to be properly recorded, a rule on how to keep records and issue certificates in receipt of fees or voluntary contributions has been adopted. In accordance with the provisions of the Regulation, applicants are required to keep records of receipt of voluntary contributions or donations and to issue certificates of received donations. The final reports submitted in 1763 showed that candidates made more than 10 million kunas or over 19% of total funds for the financing of the electoral promotion from voluntary contributions. The most significant donations in money from natural persons amounting to more than 4 million kunas or from legal entities amounting also to over 4 million kunas. In the form of products or services from natural persons, 283 thousand 933 kunas of legal persons are equivalent to over a million and 400 thousand kunas. In most cases, data on the funds collected for the election promotion have been shown in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the financing of political parties, independent lists and candidates. The 22 final reports identified irregularities concerning the presentation of information on the means of electoral promotion. Some final reports did not state the data from donors, and then some sources of funds, for example, were not made available from the budget for the cost of election promotion, no market value for gift products or services, or funds or funds was determined according to sources. In certain cases, data on sources and levels of funds and costs have been shared for candidates and candidates for executive bodies, as well as for representative bodies of local self-government units, and it was not possible to separate them because the funding was made from the same source. Or the political party's sources. Of the total funds spent to finance the electoral promotion, the most significant costs for promotion and information services amounting to more than 32 million kuna, or over 60% of total costs, total financial resources collected for campaign financing. Irregularities relating to cost presentations were identified in 39 final reports and were mainly related to cost presentations, i.e. assets and costs not presented, no cost structure or costs are shown according to the types of costs. The State Audit Office is of the opinion that for the purpose of drawing up a final report, it is necessary to list a specific form of financial report which must provide data on resources by sources and costs by species. Furthermore, the audit found that a number of candidates who have acquired the right of local individuals did not charge a fee for the cost of election promotion within the time limit foreseen for the delivery of completed reports and the funds mentioned above were not shown in the final reports. It is therefore proposed to extend the deadline for the delivery of final reports from 14 days to 30 days and to comply with other electoral regulations, and to make payments for election promotion costs conditional upon the delivery of the full final report. Finally, it should be noted that those acts should be drawn up which the State audit found necessary in order to avoid future irregularities and misunderstandings. Moreover, the State audit is also known to those candidates and candidates who have failed to comply with the legal provisions on the delivery of the final report, and should find ways or should create adequate mechanisms for sanctioning such behaviour, and should equally be dealt with with by election committees. We must also draw attention to the fact that the funds are intended to be paid to election boards, but with a delay of a few weeks. The reasons for such a great delay are not explained. Finally, though, we should commend the work of the State Audit Office, which has undoubtedly done a huge job, with office employees certainly facing many challenges, since this is the first time that many of our local officials have done this, or have not been familiar with the legal regulations or have disobeyed the legal obligations they were obliged to fulfil. We at the HSS Club believe that the report will contribute to greater application of the legislation, thereby contributing more orderly and transparently to the spending of financial resources in the electoral process. And that's why the HSS club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56054	Thank you. That's where we closed the club debate. We're moving on to an individual debate. First distinguished representative of Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The second is Honorable Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Then it's the honourable representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56055	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam State Auditor with assistants, colleagues and colleagues. As we have already heard, the purpose of this report that we are talking about is to check the final reports submitted, are they in accordance with the laws? Are the sources and the amount of funds properly displayed? Have special accounts been opened for election promotion? The aim is also to determine the costs of candidates and their deputies and the costs of local elections charged by the state and budget and units of local and regional (regional) self-government. During May, the third round of elections was held in some units of local and regional (regional) self-government in June, for the first time in Croatia in local elections directly elected by the mayors of the municipalities, mayors, mayors and mayors of the city of Zagreb. The Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision to call elections for the mayors, mayors, mayors and their deputies also set out to hold elections for members of representative bodies in units of local and regional (regional) self-government on the same day. A total of 4000 359 people competed for executives, as we have already heard in 576 units of local and regional (regional) self-government. Political party candidates could use the political party's account, while independent list holders and candidates must open a special account to finance the costs of the promotion. Of the total number of the most i.e. 784 candidates used the political party's account, 145 candidates opened a special account, 55 candidates combined the political party's account and a special account while 28 candidates used a personal account or cash payment, which is contrary to the law. 197 candidates said they did not use a special account, but it is also a large share of candidates 554 who did not mention how the account was financed by the election promotion. And we've already heard from Mr. Maric's representative who I agree with that this is wrong, as I say. Elections for executives were held by 6 thousand 579 polling stations and as many boards, and 576 election commissions followed the elections. Despite the obligation of the candidates and their deputies to deliver the final report to the competent electoral commission and following the State Audit Office's reaction, 234 candidates did not submit a final report from which we also heard 9 chosen as executive authorities. And out of the total of 997 candidates 88.3% submitted the final report, but also 11.7% did not do so which is a big share. 18% did not show sources and the amount of funds, nor the costs with a statement that they had neither achieved nor spent any means of promotion, which is the least said very unseriously. Of the reports submitted, 98.5% of the resources and the amount of funds are according to the law or 97.3% of the campaign costs shown are in accordance with the regulations. This is a clear indication that in order to draw up the final report, it is necessary to prescribe a specific form of financial report from which both resources and costs will be seen according to species. This would facilitate the work of the relevant election committees, as well as the transparency requirements, so that citizens are better informed about the amount of funds spent, as well as the sources of these funds spent for promotion. All 50% of the final reports have been published in official reports, as well as by means of local public communications, and only 26% are not complete, so there is no part of the data on individual candidates and their deputies. It is therefore necessary to lay down the format and content of the full final report of the electoral committees and the time-limit for their publication. The highest cost of election fees relates to the budgets of local and regional self-government units, which show that around 153 million kunas have been spent to conduct the elections. The largest share in these costs is the cost of compensation to members of election committees and about 54 million kunas. They are followed by fees for the work of election committees, promotion costs, material costs, professional staff fees and information support. However, in the county of my Sibenik-Kninska, that is not the case. The largest share of costs in total costs shall be compensation for the work of the election committees, members of the electoral committees. The report also reads the colourfulness of the payment of the amount of fees for members of the electoral bodies, so the members of the individual election committees received higher fees, and in some cities and municipalities we also heard, which is contrary to the recommendations of the State Election Commission. The report is extensive, very professional, and I am convinced that it gives us good guidelines for the necessary interventions for which I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56056	Thank you. And finally, the honourable representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56057	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. So here is the State Audit Office's report on the final report on sources and the amount of funds spent for the election promotion of candidates and candidates, means for the holders of executive powers, mayors and mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb and the costs of carrying out the local elections held last year in May. So we know that the elections were held in 20 counties, 126 cities, 429 municipalities. It has already been said how many candidates participated in these elections, how many polling stations were held, how many election committees were held, how many election committees. Of course he controlled it all and somehow directed their work to the National Election Commission. The reading report may establish that the State audit has done this job, therefore taking into account the final reports in question, very professionally, quality, in accordance with its natural capabilities and available mechanisms in a manner and according to the procedures laid down by the relevant laws and according to international audit standards and the code of professional ethics. The report is transparent, methodologically correct and as such deserves all praise. The report itself had, among other things, to verify whether it was drawn up in accordance with the rules, whether the sources and the amount of funds spent for the election promotion were correctly displayed, to determine the costs of candidates and their deputies. The Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb requires candidates for holders of executive powers to draw up and submit a final report on sources and the amount of funds spent to finance the election promotion within 14 days of the publication of the official election results. The State Audit Office states that out of a total of 1997 candidates 234 or 11.7% failed to submit a final report, 234 failed to deliver it after the State Audit Office sent 1280 letters to candidates with a request for a report. I think that's what the predecessors were talking about, and so did their colleagues, absolutely inadmissible. It is unacceptable and unacceptable that nine of them were elected as executiveists, therefore for the mayor or mayor, I do not believe that any of them were elected mayor, but apparently for the mayor or mayor they are. And they are today, these nine executives in those positions that carry out uninterruptedly, without any problems, so no one asks questions about their obvious violation of the law. It is also inadmissible that out of the total number of 1763 final reports delivered in 315 candidates and candidates' deputies did not show sources and the amount of funds and the cost of election promotion. So here are just some of the examples set out in this report of a clear violation of the law that points to certain lacks of legal solutions that have not been respected or simply ignored. I think it is necessary in future interventions in this area of legislation, so the area of local electoral legislation on such examples of accounting and necessary to provide for sanctions for such illegal and unacceptable behaviour. We are able to do this very quickly because it is in the procedure of adopting the Law on the financing of political activities and electoral promotion that we discussed in the first reading last week, which, among other things, is currently envisaged to fully regulate sanctions for illegal conduct, in such a way as to impose administrative sanctions in addition to criminal sanctions, such as the loss of the right to compensation for election promotion, the suspension of payment of funds or the loss of the right to regular annual or for a certain period of funding from the state or budget of units of local and regional self-government. And in the end, I'm just going to point out, so let's not repeat ourselves, that for these reasons I will certainly support and accept this report from the State Audit Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56058	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative finally want to say a few words? Yeah. Dear Šima Krasic, chief state auditor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56059	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, I'd like to talk to you briefly. I always thank you for your suggestions, your remarks, they always do us good to see what else we can do for future work. I am speaking jurisdiction because the issue of publishing the name, the last names of those who have not delivered the reports and those who have received the fees and have been chosen, but have not delivered the report. I will just point out once more because I said this in the introduction, the Law on the Election of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb, no mention of the State Office for Auditing any jurisdiction. Therefore, it is prescribed that the other institution is leading the elections, that the principle candidates are in debt for the final report, Article 32 of the Law says, within 14 days of the announcement of the elections, to submit a final report which has a height and source of income and expenditure. They were obliged, and the State Election Commission and election committees are obliged to publish it in public ballots. So all the local units, and all of us at the state level, could see the names and last names of all those who didn't do it. We found a foothold for reviewing what we did in the Law on the financing of political parties, independent lists and candidates in Article 26, which he said, he told the parties that the law on source of income, income financing is applied to independent candidates and lists at national and local level. I have consulted many not to enter that part, and we are not authorized and the candidates were not obliged to submit final reports, and we have declared ourselves here and found a foothold. We asked those delivered to deliver election commissions, and the rest we asked directly of the candidates and we did what we did. We certainly know the names of both these and 234, but we are not authorized to give those names. I was also looking at article 37. The Constitution. He says names can only be given to this that the law has authorized us, probably as we have so far published those names. But they should have been published after the election, after the report was delivered and the institutions were authorised to give those names. That's why I say once again here that the State Audit Office has no authority or the ability to publish names. There are no authorisations or conditions for the publication of those names. So, we did, we gave all the data, we gave the data together. We have 6262 pages of reports that have been sent to independent candidates, so by law we can't do that. Thank you again very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56060	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56061	Thank you very much. The Honorable State Auditor said she had neither the right nor the authority to publish names which were found not to have submitted reports and did not comply with the regulations. That's not true. What law prevents, disables the State's audit? The fact that there's a way to make sure there's not a single regulation that requires it to be able to do that. But there is not a single law that explicitly prevents it and has the opportunity to publish those names in the report and the State Audit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56062	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. .../ Šima Krasic: Can I just... You can't. .../ Šima Krasic: I will only quote an article of the law which, I would ask not to be.../... You can't follow the Rules of Procedure, you can't react after correcting an incorrect quote. .../ Šima Krasic: But it is not an incorrect quote when it is said that.../... But please! But you can't do business. I can't give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56063	This Regulation shall enter The constitution says names and last names cannot be published. I beg you, why...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56064	Please! Here you go. Thank you very much. I've closed the debate already. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56065	We are moving to the report on the final election reports and the amount of funds spent to promote local elections in 2009. The applicant is the State Audit Office. The debate is closed. In line with the draft parliamentary working bodies, I am voting the conclusion: a report on the final report on the elections and the amount of funds spent for the 2009 election promotion is accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted unanimously by 94 votes. I don't know where the other votes got lost in the meantime. So please let us have a little bit of influence on the return of those who have gone out.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56066	Let's move on to point 7. i.e. - Report of the Commission on the conflict of interest decision for 2009 to the Croatian Assembly The applicant: The Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest has submitted this report on the basis of Article 17. Law to prevent conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was held: the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Mate Kacan, President of the Committee for Conflict of Interest. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56067	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. You today have the results of the work of the current Committee for 2009 in a meaningful and quantitative sense. This is also to say the first full report of this composition of the commission. Namely, last year's report only covered the last three months of 2008 in which this composition of the commission worked. And this report includes commission work data for the entire calendar year 2009. Not wanting to prejudge your assessment of the work of the commission in any way, allow me to pass on to you the vision of the commission itself about my work on the spirit of this time period which, in the opinion of the commission, is in many ways different from any previous period. The first aspect is undoubtedly to intensify the work of the commission on cases. With the 317 decisions and 40 opinions taken, the Commission has significantly exceeded the total number of acts taken in all previous reporting periods. This is the case, taking into account the fact that the majority of decisions are related to the obligations of the delivery of the property card. The second aspect of intensification of work is strengthening the educational role of the commission, which is essentially a preventive role. This aspect of the work is not the original legal obligation of the commission but stems from the obligations set out in the Action Plan with the Anti-Corruption Strategy. Nevertheless, the preventive role of the commission is very important. Prevention is individually taking the most important way to prevent conflicts of interest and thus corruption. In this respect, during 2009, staff of the Office of the Commission and were formally trained for educational tasks which began to be realised in 2009 by teaching state officials on the law and practice of preventing conflicts of interest. This year, the educational programme is expanded and includes the permanent education of local and regional officials, i.e. regional self-government, through education on county centres. The third aspect of labour intensity refers to the conclusions carried out by the Commission on the basis of rich practice, i.e. work during 2009. In fact, during 2009, the Commission identified a significant number of cases in which legal solutions are shown in part or in a completely inadequate sense and the purpose of the law. This is neither the time nor the opportunity to elaborate any of these cases, but I would like to point out that the commission initiated the procedure for amending and supplementing the law. In this context, I would like to stress that the work of institutional training of the Committee for the Implementation of the tasks prescribed by the law has not yet been completed. In doing so, I particularly think of the need for institutional integration of all bodies relevant to the commission in the performance of its tasks. A successful fight against corruption and conflict of interest is a very common lobby of corruption, always the only synergy of the individual efforts of all its actors. For example. In the process of verifying the data from the property cards, the commission will have to contact inexplicably, co-operate continuously with the Ministry of Finance. This cooperation will certainly have a wide range of procedures, from defining the general framework, forms of cooperation, to technical details of the integration of information systems and the like. At the end of the last, but surely most important. It is generally known that corruption certainly represents one of today's greatest social Halls. In all countries of the world, the control measure is also a measure of society's success as a whole. This global rule applies to Croatia as well. In this context, I stress that the Commission considers it to be operating in an atmosphere that represents a zero-tolerance rate on corruption. I also think it is important to retain this existing momentum and create a good climate in the fight against corruption. With its work in 2009, the commission sought to give its pain to just such efforts, and it will continue to do so in the future. Please evaluate our work in the past year and thank you in advance for all your constructive suggestions in the debate, as well as your attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56068	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. But before the debate begins, I would like to inform you that the Committee on Information, Information and Media will be held at 13:30 in Janko Draskovic's hall, as it was written in the call for a session, so I would ask the members to be there at half two. We'll discuss it in clubs first. On behalf of the HNS Club, and HSU's esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56069	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable President of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of this presentation on behalf of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired Party, I would like to express one satisfaction and, in a way, congratulate the President of the Commission on a full report, a quality report, and what brings me most, i.e. the fact that we are most pleased that this report points to trends in quality growth in the work of the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest. In order not to turn out to be a thank you, I must say that I was personally a member of this commission in the quota then of the ruling coalition, by 3 December 2009, and I think that it is my membership in the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest to me a new quality political and human experience. So, it should be said that we are talking about the first whole calendar year, which depicts the entire work of the commission, with the signification and the problem that happens practically every four years, that the Commission in 2009 was the most concerned with property cards and bans on the mayor, mayor and mayor in the Republic of Croatia. What should be said is that public expectations are too high from the work of the commission, and I always have to draw attention when I talk about that the primary role of the commission is a preventive role, that the commission is not there to punish, to replace, but because through the public work, through the full public work, with the exception of the act of voting itself, points to a possible conflict of interest, which Mr Kacan says is and can be a lobby of corruption and thus point to a possible conflict of interest or possible corruption. So the preventive role is, in any case, the dominant role of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. It is certainly to praise the large number of decisions made by the commission last year, although I personally have one dilemma whether we could take another step at the time when we decided those 296 decisions in the package concerning officials who took office as head of the body of the local and regional, or regional self-government after the elections were held in May 2009. I am sure that one part of the people covered by this decision did not supply data for their property card for the reason he was hiding something, but because they simply did not know about this obligation, and because our parties represented in the Croatian Parliament and other parties did not educate their people enough about their obligations after the election of those positions in the executive government. So here I have to admit that we are all leaders of political parties, too, also co-responsible that such a large number of local, regional self-government officials are being punished in some way. So I'm sure they didn't want to hide their assets from those who work in a company, and for a thousand and a half kuna, monthly fees are held by the deputy municipal chief or deputy mayor. We also did not give this decision and part of the official who properly filled out the property cards, but delivered them to whom? The administration of its municipalities and its city. So they also had not enough information that they had to deliver it personally to the commission, but expected that their municipal, or city administration would do so on their behalf. Of course, that's why we have 87 requests to the Administrative Court that are actually required to repeal this decision. I think we could have taken another step, but I wouldn't judge this. This is a commission decision and I respect it, and it has led to certain changes. In the context of what I've just said, I'm curious and the only thing you'd be troubled about here is why we don't have here today, if the public is the work of the commission, why we don't have a list of these 40 officials, names and last names. Which is the remaining 40 officials, whether it's the mayors, whether they're mayors, whether they're municipal mayors who didn't deliver their property cards. Because I remember that, as a committee, we have put all those who have not fulfilled their obligation in public, so there is no obstacle in this material to having a list of those 40 people who have not fulfilled their obligation today. Of course we might have that in another report because I want to trouble you why? Because here we have a black hole, something where we have an undefined status of these people who can avoid the execution of their obligations. I think that the commission should take a step further in any case and I suggest that the commission individually invite each of these officials and ask him, fellow Markovanovic, we will not handcuff him, it is not in the commission's jurisdiction, but to invite each of these officials and ask him for a reason why he did not deliver his property card which is his legal obligation. In the event that he does not after that and does not deliver his property card or give a valid explanation, in that case, he should in some way create a certain black list of non-legislators and which can be seen immediately at first sight as subject to possible corruption. Furthermore, I think that the trends in this report that talk about increasing the number of opinions cases are very good, that essentially one legal practice is being created, the very commission that can serve everyone in some way and as a guide in their future positioning of public duties and that everyone can find himself in these cases and know what to expect. So these decisions, with their arguments, can be very useful for all current and future officials acting as public officials. What should certainly be said is that officials and citizens who are anonymously applying in some way address this Committee with confidence which is very good, that it is not a commission in terms of bau bau, now someone will be punished but addressed for their opinion, they are asked to check certain facts and I think it is good in the long term. What should also be commended is in some way the conclusion of this report which indicates both the positioning and the fundamental elements on which this Commission is an active participant in the fight against corruption and which may give guidance for tomorrow's development and better functioning of this Committee. I would certainly like to give this debate on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retireds my contribution to this, and suggest that in any case in the future we must further emphasise the public and preventative component of the commission and create from this commission a moral authority whose right word will have a certain importance in our society. Secondly, I would like to suggest that, even in the amendments to the laws on the agenda of this Croatian Parliament, some other changes may increase and increase networking in the system of institutions involved in the fight against corruption. Therefore, this commission should not remain a moral authority on the side and be seen by citizens as a holy guide, so it certainly does not harm but does not use much, such a role in the Committee should certainly not, but must in this trend in which the role of the commission has been developed now, this development must continue and the Committee must indeed come up with one real, real moral authority. In any case, at the end of this presentation, I would like to say what I have experienced in the work of the Committee, which is in any case a constructive work in the Committee itself and what is so lacking in Croatian society, which is the openness of the members of the Committee for Upgrading the system itself, and the dissemination or networking of institutions. It is something that adorns this composition of the Committee and I think the Commission has a good perspective but of course it should not be satisfied with these possible praises but should be taken very seriously as a very responsible task. I would just like to point out in the end that the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Pensioners will support and vote in favour of this Report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56070	Thank you. It is next to the HSS Club of Honorable Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56071	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Committee, colleagues and fellow MPs. I also join on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club in praises related to this content report. But I'm going to start with a matter of corruption so I can relate to the content of a concrete report. Discussing corruption is an important segment in the process of bringing the Republic of Croatia closer to the European Union, but it is even more important because it stops and negatively affects the further development of our society as a whole. Corruption, which is not something new, is present at all levels and in all societies throughout history, because it has always been those who have been willing to take advantage of the public position in order to achieve their private interest. Unfortunately, as we are warned and various affairs, it is the impression that moral evil has drawn into almost all segments of society. The state loses 6 billion kuna annually because of corruption, and that is one of the reasons why the entire system and the state apparatus need to be involved in its repression. In this regard, it is important that the Institute prevents conflicts of interest, and in this report which is before us calls for a World Bank document under which an effective Anti-Corruption Strategy is based on 5 key elements. It is based on increasing political responsibility, strengthening civil society participation, creating a competitive private sector, institutional constraints on government, and improving public sector governance. As for the first above-mentioned increase in political responsibility, its implementation has been concrete in terms of the possibility of monitoring due to several options in the election process. Then through the supervision of political party financing and the transparency of the political process through the public work of parliaments and other authorities, and through certain legal measures of the institution whose task is to prevent corruption. These include rules on preventing conflicts of interest, including rules on receiving gifts and other benefits from private sources, and rules on property reports. In fact, success in countering corruption is achieved by synergy of all factors, and the commission is only one of the authorities in charge and cannot act outside the scope of its powers. In 2009, the Commission received a total of 78 requests and proposals for an opinion and requests for a decision-making process on conflict of interest. Of which 52 requests and proposals were related to the submission of an opinion, 23 requests and proposals were related to the decision-making procedures of conflict of interest, while the other three cases concerned the conclusion, direction and notification of the other competent authority. During the reporting period, the commission held 6 sessions and 6 working meetings and gave 40 opinions at the meetings and made 317 decisions. Of these, 296 decisions concern officials who took office as head of the local and regional (regional) self-government authorities after the May 2009 elections. And a found conflict of interest has been imposed on sanctions amounting to 10 thousand kunas, for failing to fulfil the obligation to notify of the property situation which is their legal obligation. Of those 296 officials who have found a conflict of interest, sanctions imposed for failure to comply with the legal obligation, 87 submitted them to a request for the protection of constitutional rights. For 40 officials who have not submitted a report on the property, an invitation has been made to the authorities in which they exercise their duty to suspend their payout until they fulfil their legal obligation. Of the total number of cases received, 18 relate to state-level officials, 50 to local and regional (regional) level officials, and 7 to non-legislators. Of the total number of items received, of the 25 initiators were officials. And in 42, these were other persons, among whom there were often officials and bodies in matters of opinion where the official acted as a duty while in 8 cases the initiator was anonymous. Out of the total number of cases containing reports of conflicts of interest in 9 cases, the application concerned officials of the state level of government, at 11 per official of local and regional level of government, and 3 do not refer to officials within the meaning of this law. In 2009, with 40 opinions given on whether a situation is considered a conflict of interest, the number of opinions given in previous reporting periods has been repeatedly exceeded, and the number of sanctions imposed has been exceeded. In order to increase transparency in the work of the commission, the Commission has made it possible to see the media, civil society organisations and the rest of the public concerned in each phase of the procedure, and all formal acts of the commission have been on the Commission's websites since September 2009. This is how the property cards of the officials who delivered them are available on these pages of the public. The effective action of the commission requires strengthening its institutional position. This year, the adoption of a Regulation on the internal organisation of the Office of the Commission has provided a measure of action with the Anti-Corruption Strategy, which separates employees from the Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament and has also been a constitutional act of setting up their own professional service. The strengthening of the commission in terms of its full independence is not only the process of preparation for membership in the European Union, but also the firm commitment of the Government to eradicate and combat any situation, as well as those related to a possible conflict of interest that would create a place of corruption. In this respect, it is clear that the Commission for a decision on conflict of interest cannot only fight the battle but that the eradication of corruption from Croatian society requires synergy between all competent authorities and mutual cooperation. As I said in the introduction of a quality and content report, I believe it will also contribute to its preventive action to prevent conflicts of interest, because we believe that here all the factors in this process will carry out their obligations by virtue of this report. And therefore the HSS Club will support this report thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56072	Thank you. It is the turn of the HDZ club, the distinguished representative Krunoslav Markovovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56073	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Commission, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's a colleague of Greece's, uh, extremely statisticalally processed this whole thing together. I'm going to try as little as possible, because a real review of the commission's work we just got statistically. I might say a few more words as a little bit to get to know the public with the composition of the commission. Therefore, three members of the ruling coalition, three opposition members and five outside members, are among the three members of the commission, in turn very affirmed people in their field of work. And which for the commission is very well interested in the quality work of the commission. And that's why actually the results are I have to say more than good, so the objects are solved as quickly as possible, but also thoroughly so that there's as little improvisation as possible. Opinions from all parties in the process are requested. So, I think the work is quality and we haven't had any objections yet, but we did, we're gonna have some lawsuits. Now why the lawsuits, because of the large number of officials, one number didn't hand over the property cards. On two occasions, we warned the public and asked them to do so. After that, there remained a far smaller number of those who simply did not hand over the cards. The commission took advantage of its rights and punished officials who did not hand over an property card with 10 thousand kunas, which is not little, especially for some who are actually volunteers or volunteers, mayor volunteer, deputy mayor and now normally, it's hard to pay people. Some have resorted to lawsuits, but I think it will be very difficult to resolve in their favor because the commission, in this case as well as in any other case, follows the law. Here's a good one, and a colleague of the Hrelja mentioned that the commission deals with prevention. In fact, many officials are asking the commission whether they are in conflict of interest if they are doing so, that and that. So one part is very obvious that they are in conflict of interest, we clearly respond very quickly and believe that they give up jobs intended for their close relatives or their own company or whether they are in conflict if they receive pay in one place and so on. What would be good is that all officials read the work of the commission. There's not a lot of pages and I think it would be good and that way there'd be a lot less trouble. Here I must also say that the media gathers at committee meetings only when it comes to some sound names. Then there are many, then there are cameras and there are others and here are commendations to all the members of the commission not to save anyone, regardless of the name, last name, party or the like. So, it's being handled exactly by the law, and I think it's actually how the commission gained its reputation. There are also certain traces of corruption, and we note that if they send a commission any anonymous, either signed, they send very often to the State's Attorney's office and other institutions who think they can handle it. We're some of the objects we think are very obvious, and we've also forwarded it to the State's Attorney's office and I think the State's Attorney's office will continue to deal with it. And in the same way, we have informed that the conflict is of interest, that it is obvious here that the law is being broken. But it should be said that there are also a lot of anonymous reports, especially on shifts in certain municipalities, cities, counties where the one who comes is suing these previous statements, so after all the statements, sometimes witness hearings, I think we're making good and quality decisions. That's what it's always been, and it's part of a political struggle, but I think that commission is working, again I have to say, okay. If we're talking about the number of cases, once I'm here from this pay phone, I've already statistically said that everything is in favor of this commission. I guess in the previous compositions of the committees that they had been making very difficult decisions, because maybe they couldn't agree on a number of things, and that's why there was a number of unsolved cases left. Here's 2005. 66 unworked items, 2006. 103 unworked items, 2007. 44 undetermined items, in 2008, there were only 5 items in the work that were later done, in 2009 already of 10 subjects 5 in the paper, 5 unworked, again I say it was done with a large number of opinions, in 2009 with 40 opinions, so a large number of decisions. Clearly, one part of those decisions applies to this punishment. The work of the commission, I think, is that after the trust of our citizens, they will continue to work in quality, because I suppose there will also be quality applications. In fact, all those who do not trust one of the officials on the Internet should find a property card and compare the data from the property card and what they see or what they know. In that case, let them report to the commission that what they know or clearly does not match the property card. Namely, the commission can't control thousands and thousands of property cards and see if it's true what it says inside. That's why the commission's work is public, everyone's available. And I think that, before any lawsuits, let all those who want something or someone to report what will certainly be a great help to all those who are fighting corruption, let them check what is written, also check whether at the end of the term there are significant differences in property, whether these differences are so similar to what the official received as a salary all that time or more. The great help to the commission must be our citizens, our residents, and I think they will become more and more involved. Namely, the Internet is really available to everyone, cards are available to everyone, except for the most recent data, personal data that should not be available, but as far as each official's assets are concerned, I don't think it can be more clearly written because every official wrote alone. For everything he hasn't written, it should also be answered, and this role of the commission can be very large. Here I am thanking the president who took this job at a very difficult time. Here I must say thank you to our outside members who always find beyond their work time, no matter how long it takes and that here is a professional and honest help for us all to do so together with us advocates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56074	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56075	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Commission, colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian Parliament. The first thing I want to say is that the SDP club will vote to accept this report, but if it is a policy or if we understand politics as the activity of managing the public goods and public interests of a social community then politics must serve everyone in the common interest, and politicians must carry out this activity in the interests of all, in the interests of the community as a whole. If politicians act in the private interest of any politician or associated person, then they have entered a conflict of interest. It should be said that the commission performs a public function in the interests of citizens and the sole judge for the successful performance and the task is the Croatian public. Because the commission is tasked with controlling parliamentary agents. That's why his independence is unusually important. And something else since the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests has come to the bench, and the Commission is engaged in a decision on conflict of interest, we need to agree whether the commission is a body, body of repressive action, or whether it is a moral factor on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, on behalf of the public. As it is now set up or as it has been set up so far, the commission was a moral court on behalf of the Croatian public. And the pronunciation of the measures did not have a series of experiences of the previous commission. And now I have been in talks with the representatives of the European Union, and even now the effects have not been shown for punishment. Most importantly, it is pointed out that the most important publication of decisions on conflict of interest of officials is. The commission has, of course, succeeded and it is to praise and obtain the property cards of all those on whom the commission has taken care, i.e. the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and that is good. But we also heard here, and we didn't know the answer to the representatives of the European Union how the Commission controls the truthfulness of the data it receives in the reports or property cards of officials. Now in the law that is in the benches, it is proposed that the commission can do so with its own activity. So we are turning the commission into a repressive body, because in order for someone to control the truthfulness of the property card data, they must be able to determine the origin of the property, they must have elements for it. Since the only public controls the work of the commission because of its role, it will be an interesting solution that will come out of it. If it is still predicted that the commission can submit a proposal to resolve the appointed official, then we are indeed piling up the bodies that are receiving a repressive role, without saying building democratic standards in Croatian society, and under democracy we are successfully implying if all institutions and all bodies function simultaneously. But everyone in their own circle. I think it is very important to stress that the commission is still under the strong influence of political parties, because the composition of the commission is also political. And most members of the commission are politically interested. I think building an anti-corruption system requires a far greater public impact on the work of the commission. There are enough items, but we haven't gone far from finding that the property card was handed over or we're alone, and there have been cases that deserve to be opened up by their own means, by their own initiative, an object of conflict of interest. So, let's get back to statistics. We can be more than happy here. Only the report speaks of a big job done by the commission. Of course, statistics show that the most common work of the commission was to obtain a report on the property, the property of officials, which should have actually already been overcome. Croatian democracy is and this conflict of interest has been right to the public for almost eight or seven years and I think there is no reason why officials addressed by the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest do not perform their duties within the deadlines provided for by the law. In this regard, it would really be good to inform the bodies that are acting or the bodies that have appointed them for this negligence. But in any case, it's important to inform the public. Finally, I want the commission to get the status it deserves both in the public and in the laws and in the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the Croatian budget. We will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56076	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And then the second is the distinguished representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56077	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Commission, and distinguished fellow MPs and MPs. We have a report from the Commission on the prevention of conflicts of interest for 2009. This is your fourth report to the Croatian Parliament which controls and implements the measures that you have given us in your report as a problem and as a report on your work for 2009. What I would say certainly is that the report is high-quality, transparent and that this trend of growth and importance of the role of the commission, as well as social awareness of political officials, mayors, mayors, state and local representatives, as well as our citizens. What is very important to point out, it is necessary first of all to point out to the public what is the real reason for the establishment of the commission, and certainly to point out those problems so that your report for next year and your work in the following year would certainly be better, and this is what we also aim at representatives and officials in the Croatian Parliament, and I believe all those colleagues who may have been in trouble because of the knowledge or ignorance when they should have acted under the Law on the conflict of interest and under the Rules on the work of your commission. First of all, I think that your commission should restore trust in the work and in the conduct of political duties because at this time today everything is seen completely differently than it used to be. I once said in my debate that in the Croatian Parliament there was a debate with the honorable Croatian assembly, today because of some failures and because of individuals, it is only public and political responsibilities that are at stake, and especially when a thief, all thieves, think that the work of politicians is dishonest, and that all policies and public duties are only for personal benefit, only to be personally enriched at the expense of citizens and individuals. I think it is an honorable duty to act as a political function here in the Croatian Parliament, so I think it is honorable for everyone to be the mayor, mayor or mayor of a particular county in the Republic of Croatia. We know that the situation is difficult, we know that the times are such that because of the economic crisis and because of the damaged and collective consciousness, but also the responsibilities of individuals can be questioned and what we are doing here but also what you are doing in your commission. First of all, it is necessary to restore citizens' confidence in the conduct of public duties, and it is your commission to correct public behaviours and to correct those situations where certain persons are found in conflict with the law because of their conduct or failures, and above all in conflict with those duties which they act and should be treated with honor and integrity. Your commission should first and foremost apply its work to the units of local administration and self-government, because it cannot be allowed for a single official to be just and not to know what the provisions of the law are, that he did not know what was prescribed when someone became an official, mayor, mayor or mayor, and certainly that information and that training of officials should be carried out at all levels, both at this state level as well as at those local levels, because certain officials do not know what to do after the election, so it is necessary and necessary that you, as a committee, inform them of it. I also commend what is published on the Internet pages of your commission, so that all those who are interested can at any moment know what one of the politicians and officials has at some point from the property and has. It is certainly not necessary to pursue people who are acting in public responsibilities and I do not think that it is of interest to dig there, is eager to wait for someone to stand on the mine so that they suffer because of the honorable conduct of their duty, but first of all, to let people know that what is done, and what people have given as their vote in the elections is honorable and fair, and that the individual who commits the law there are institutions of the rule of law, there are other institutions other than yours who need to join together and fight together against those who have done their own public work with honor and integrity to the honest work that we need to work here in the Croatian Parliament, in the Government, and at all levels of the state, local and the lowest municipal and local. Your commission certainly highlighted in its report what is problematic. I also welcome the establishment of the Commission Office, I welcome and education of people working in your office, I welcome all those measures that you have proposed, which are certainly better to make your work more successful and quality, and I think that over time and perhaps disrupted trust and perhaps what went wrong sometimes will return to its right path. I am giving you and your 2009 report full support and I will vote for the adoption of this report in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56078	Thank you. It is next to representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56079	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest, colleagues and colleagues. At the end of last year, in December of last year I was appointed a member of the commission, and I hope that there will be no now, that I have not participated in the work of the Commission in 2009, I hope that there will be no conflict of interest in what I am going to say about this report. The concerted views of representatives' clubs that praise the report delivered are the best response to those who occasionally called out the commission, so the president and members of the commission for their work, that is, how they argued reluctantly, when the results of the commission's work were presented to this High House in this transparent, content and transparent report. I, like my colleagues Salapic, will also praise what the Commission has achieved during 2009, which is that all decisions made by the Commission are made available to the public on the Internet, and thus is precisely the availability of public and transparency of work the best indicator that this and the work of this committee is subject to criticism and public insight. And all the praises that have been given so far have been reflected and a confirmation of the good policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which in all its documents has declared a zero rate in the fight against corruption. When we talk about a conflict of interest in the conduct of public duties, most often thoughts are here and some colleagues have pointed out this, this commission monitors and behavior, or the actions of parliamentary representatives. My colleagues and colleagues, I think that when we talk about officials, they are all officials who are in Article 1, that is, to Article 1. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest is taxed which are officials and which have an obligation to supply the property card to the Commission. By the way, I'd like to get an answer that's still being answered by the country in the fight against the corruption of its officials' property cards online, which is a question for the chairman of the commission. So I think we've gone one step further or we're at the top of a fight, or one of these ways we're fighting corruption and bribes. When I said this, it wasn't just for the MPs, but for all the officials, I would point out in this report what I've been talking about this year since I was actively involved in the Committee's work. And this was the interpretation of an article that was prescribed by the Commission during 2009, which considered that council members were municipal, city and council members of the county councils to be officials, so in such cases the Commission gave opinions and made decisions. I don't just want to point to Thank you very much. [[Intruder Ivan Jarnjak: Please continue, they will calm down.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I would like not only to point out the interpretation of the provision of an article of the Law, but rather the consistency that in this report, the Committee once called council officials, and once called them public officials. On page 9, page 13, page 32, page 37, and on pages 47, 51 and 57, it is no problem that, at one point in time, the presidents of the municipal councils who acted as commissioners were both council members and chiefs, so executive and representative authorities. But there is no more of this, so I would pray then both in the work and in the Law at the end when we talk about amendments to the Law, that this question should be resolved whether council members, members of representative bodies are units of local and regional self-government officials or not. I will commend the education carried out by members of the Committee together with representatives of the judiciary and the Ministry of Administration, also one of the measures of the government of Croatia's action plan and systematically tours the counties in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, so that officials of the units of local and regional self-government can learn about the fight against corruption or the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. From everything I don't owe because obviously all of us in this House have the same opinion on this report, congratulations on being all of us in the meantime, which the Committee has singled out, the Committee's professional service has been separated from the Parliament and has become an independent body, therefore, the Bureau's office for deciding on a conflict of interest. And how seriously the Commission has done its work is also bearing witness to this chapter, which states in the report that it initiated, initiated and proposed but not at that time in the capacity of the authorised proposing, amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, which are mostly adopted and are available to us in the proposed amendment and addition of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. So, because of all this, as well as my colleagues, I congratulate you on the work of the Committee so far, and I hope that this work will be even better in the interests of both the public and the prevention of conflict of the interests of all of us officials in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56080	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56081	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will join in the opening part of the presentation to all those who supported this report. Because I think it deserves it, it's very high-quality, it's extensive, it's fully reflective of the work and activity of the Research Commission. And we can systematicize it into three separate or separate units. The first would be the collection of data on the Commission's concrete work with the number of acts taken and opinions. The second part would represent the content of formal acts, so we are able to get acquainted with the content of the acts adopted. The third part refers to the assessment of the situation in terms of the status and work of the Research Commission with a specific reference to the regulations governing this matter. Of course, in this sense this report must undoubtedly be accepted, i.e. that it is acceptable. It is particularly important that part of the Report related to the analysis of the prevention of conflicts of interest and the fight against corruption, and the entry of commissions into these processes. It is necessary to accept those views found in a much broader context of the fight against corruption by the Institute of Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. However, conflict of interest cannot be an institute or a struggle for itself, so resolving conflicts of interest cannot be enough for itself to contain in the full sense the word or the total amount of corruption, given that we always find two situations there. So, that is, only the Committee is in two situations. The body applying the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest is not and cannot be a law enforcement body. Not even when it acts on a case whose basis points to the existence of a criminal offence. So the conflict of interest always makes up the previous but general framework for every corruption crime. On the other hand, the long situation where the circumstances of conflict of interest do not constitute a criminal act of corruption, and in particular when it comes to a future possible conflict of interest of such nature that it requires to achieve a specific procedure and measures to prevent conflict of interest first and then sanction. So, first prevention, prevention, then sanctioning. Finally, although an important body may not or may not be the only body with this task, the right measure of success in countering corruption should be in the extreme line a proportionate measure of social awareness of the inadmissibility of corruption and corruption at all levels and in all its aspects. It is in this sense that this report, as well as the work of the commission, should be understood, i.e. the commission itself should be understood as a body standing by a number of institutions with the same or similar, but primarily a preventive role. And in that sense, of course this report should be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56082	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Mirjana Feric-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56083	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. President of the Commission, colleagues and colleagues. The report that is now in front of us on the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest is extremely important. It's important because conflict of interest if it's not the first step in corruption, crime, then it's the first step to it. In this report, many cases have been contained which, in some time long ago, in combination with the two languages of Willy Brandt "Petitessen" but cases that are very important for citizens for citizens and citizens to gain confidence that they are not all the same, that ultimately no one is untouchable and that everyone and in doubt of conflict of interest is available to some research and court to do so and ultimately verify that they are not in conflict of interest. It is the right of every citizen and citizen in the event of any kind of suspicion. What is also good is that such reports are absolutely publicly available and I think that far more should be used by all the availability of civil society to make citizens realize that this exists. There's one thing for citizens to do with everyone, and they're officials, because if one is, then they're all the same. And that's not true. And so it's good for the commission to deal with certain cases, it's good to call it by name. Because someone who's wrongly put in the context of any conflict of interest has his own personal satisfaction at the end. What is also good to have this kind of commission is the foundation of democracy in a society where there is no conflict of interest, there is no next link to the possibility of blackmail, there is no next link to crime, to corruption, etc. So the elements that in any case undermine the foundations of democratic society, the rule of law, which, unfortunately, we find very often in the perception of citizens and citizens. I'd say you've listed a few cases here that I hope will also regulate the changes to the law. What you were saying about the property cards. Of course, one number of people who cared about it didn't even know it. And it's good to take the law as well as the work of the commission and in that one element of bona fide. If those are people who were once warned, I think that's enough and that's good. Therefore, the work of the commission and this report must, in any case, also be looked at in the context of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests and the conduct of public duties and the amendment of that law. So we see that the 2003 law is very complementary to its good elements. What I would personally say about this report, however, is that one number of names found on all the portals, not all the media is touched by this report, is not touched by the work of the commission. We have cases that are very important for the lack of democracy and intransparency, and I believe that the future commission will also touch large fish, so to speak, because the network whose commission works cannot only have large windows, it must also have smaller windows. What must never happen is that this type of report becomes part of some kind of repressive system. That's why there are other laws, other resolutions. It must be a screening of actually democratic relations and good intentions to maintain these relations, to control them and to keep citizens and citizens safe from all elements that exist fighting it. Citizens and citizens are safe not only when there is peace, but when they are sure of fear that someone might be corrupt or conflict of interest and thus endanger their fundamental human right. In that sense, every good commission remains with all the fences that it must be in service, and it must not be repressive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56084	Thank you. And it is up to the honourable representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56085	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. President of the Commission, colleagues and colleagues. I am a member of this committee, and therefore I will not speak nor defend nor dispute this report, because I would be in conflict of interest. But I think it is still good to add something to this debate, given that we have barely touched one area that seems very important to me, which is the conversation we had last week with representatives of the European Union Mission who spoke to members of the Commission. It's a very, very important area and I'd like to say something about it. But before that let me know that over the past few years we've made really significant shifts, we've got space, maybe it's not the poorest, we've got equipment. It's not completely complete, but it still serves its purpose. We've got five employees, four of them are both college-educated and dactylographic. Therefore, we have I would say the appropriate conditions. It's not so much a problem in tech anymore, it's not so much a problem with us board members, but there's one serious problem. It's a problem within the legal framework of a colleague and colleague we work in. So I repeat that within the legal framework. The real question today that we have to ask each other here is how much this commission really contributes to crime prevention and corruption. I must say that we are just one small screw, a wheel in a very complex mechanism of fighting crime and corruption, and I wonder if we are at all a significant wheel or completely insignificant. In fact, this last week's European Union Mission in Zagreb showed us a series of shortcomings in our work, better say in our work or within the legal framework, not in our work. They're nothing, they said we're within the legal powers that we're doing well, correctly, but that framework is not good. Let us take the lead, for many of you probably didn’t get a chance to get some kind of record or hear what we discussed. When discussing the property cards, they asked us first... I beg of you colleagues and colleagues, I've been correct, I've listened to you, I haven't thrown away. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] When we talked about the property cards, they asked us when you noticed that the difference in property was important at the beginning and at the end of the term of office, what then, colleagues and colleagues of the commission are doing. Do you go to the tax administration, do you analyze that property with them, whether the husband and wife are with their salaries whether they could have covered that difference. Therefore, the clear question of how much we are networked into the system. Second, we were asked about appointed persons, so they are not only interested in officials but also in many others. He says why don't you take care of them, why they're not part of your jurisdiction. They asked me if I thought the police station chief was ordering equipment from a company that he owns. Do you directly question the president, can you cancel such a contract to buy that equipment? So they seek and expect more jurisdiction. Third, buying a house. Someone bought the house, and we can tell from the property card that there's no savings. What you do then, do you have the capacity, the people who are able to investigate it to see what it is and to go to court. Or you're always meeting with your police colleagues, Interpol, DORH, and they're doing the job as part of the system, but on your initiative. That was a direct question. Then, falsely reporting property. Do you think it should be just a conflict of interest and these symbolic penalties that we've been telling them about or should be a crime? In some countries, it's a crime. Hence, there may be some movement within the legal framework within which we operate. Fifth, why do we only deal with officials? And government officials, local and regional self-government often come to work only because of their office, phone,... A relationship, protection, and they all work for the benefit of their own company they run on the mother-in-law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know, between the lines we read it. That's what they asked us. Where these people are, what's your impact on their conflict of interest, the conflict of public and private and other levels of government. Keep going. If you decide that someone is in conflict of interest, yet accepts to perform that other function that is not compatible with the sanctions, what you can do, can you prevent him from sitting in that other chair as well. Those were questions, specific questions. We unfortunately as a committee there can do very little or nothing. Furthermore, how we co-operate with the NGO sector. What are NGOs, how often we meet with them, how much we use their data, what about whistlers, etc., etc. So a series of very correct questions related to a complete system and we should be part of that system, a well-netified system and able to communicate clearly with all other elements. Here's another question. Those 40 officials who weren't even after I don't know how many of our attempts to fill the property cards they asked us directly what you were doing with them. In most countries they come to the blacklist, they are permanently monitored because for some reason some of them have been hiding it. There's something behind it. Therefore, whether you have a system of permanent monitoring of those you suspect are correctly or incorrectly filling out patterns. Here's a colleague and a colleague, so you can see from this that what awaits us is probably in a few days' time to amend and supplement the law within which we are working, it seems to me that we will have to go to another repair very soon, to another extension of our powers, to try to really make this commission part of the system, to be networked to both the tax administration and to the judiciary and to the DORH and to other bodies that are all involved in the fight against crime and corruption. So far, we, colleagues and colleagues, are never with any other body or even with the parliamentary body involved in controlling or trying to clearly combat crime and corruption, not agreeing common positions, joint moves, joint major changes and within the legislative framework, but also in practical terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56086	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56087	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to rephrase to an esteemed colleague in the part where he himself was called on to be interested in every member of the committee, and then, in his debate, he supported the report and the work of the commission. Of course, he may have said it as one such figure, but surely it is no conflict of interest or in the conflict of interest of one who is a member of the commission, and as a parliamentary representative has the opportunity to discuss the report, support it, not support it, so all those who supported it in this sense are absolutely not in conflict of interest. And on the other hand, my replica goes that way when an esteemed colleague commented was actually giving facts from a working meeting that we really did with the representatives of the European Union. However, the emphasis on this working meeting in my view is precisely that the Commission is working on the basis of the law and is obliged to act within the framework of the legal norms in force. All of these problems, all of these "open questions" that arise in fact in this sense can be, should be and are already subject to an amendment to the law which all these little things should in doubt resolve, but in a way that is defined by law first and when adopted as a legal norm, it will only then be an obligation to work or behave on all of us in that commission. So, as a member of the commission, I, in that sense, support this report. I think it reflects the right picture of what we've been doing. I think it's well made up and I think the work in this, based on the existing law of the commission itself, is absolutely acceptable or assessed as very good, and that in the extreme line comes from all those debates on behalf of clubs, as well as individual debates that I have managed to hear in this assembly today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56088	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56089	Thank you, colleague Tomljanović, for this replica. I have clearly said symbolically that I am in conflict of interest, but I think we must also respect the behaviour of our colleagues in many European countries when discussing the matter that is related to their profession and their private business. Often you will see that a parliamentary representative, a member of the county or regional and local council, will come to the president, please inform him that I will not participate in the debate, that I will not vote because it is a matter that would be in conflict of interest if he did so. So I just did it to get us to start acting like one. That's the order, if we really want to contribute to something like this debate of ours about conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56090	Thank you. The second replica is the esteemed representative of Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56091	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to join in on what my colleague Doric said about the commission's work. I think that by changing the commission's summit, i.e. the people who came to management functions, but also by teaming and professional services, the commission has indeed shown enviable results, has shown that it is working seriously within the scope of its competences. Politics is what the people who make it are. And more and more good people in politics can be better. Just as every grain has a weed, so there are politicians who do not think about the common good, but who use a mandate entrusted to them by citizens to take advantage of themselves. It is certain that the commission, which is visible and through the report is facing various drastic examples that we are also hating here as representatives, as well as the entire Croatian public. I would agree with my colleague, Doric, that the commission should certainly increase its powers because it seems to me that the competent services have not responded enough so far when the commission has pointed to certain failures. If an official knowingly fakes his salary, as we had the case of a mayor in Croatia or if he conceals his property and the commission points to this problem and warns and then nothing changes, then such officials should come to the blacklist. My question is how is it that the State's Attorney's Office, the USKOK, don't ask the police how it is possible for someone to acquire property worth 4 million kuna during the four-year term. What, then, could he have earned it from his wages? That's why here's to you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Commission, all praise to your professional associates and services. I believe you'll really team up to the end as prescribed by the regulations. But I also call on the authorities to take these commission conclusions seriously and to follow them.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56092	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56093	I thank my colleague, Petyr. I fully agree with her. I'd say and repeat three details. Powers should be increased, coordination between us and all others involved in the fight against crime and corruption should be improved. And third, at least in the longer run, think about full professionalisation and the second way to elect members of the commission. That the professional composition of the Parliament, or politics, should not be involved in this story. Thus, with the three procedures in the long run, it is safe to take another big step.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56094	Thank you. It is the turn of the replica, the distinguished representative Mirjana Feric Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56095	Mr. Vice President, my colleague Doric only urged me to add to the topic of the NGO sector. "Transparency Interactional" acts globally and it is an organization that follows these clues that appear in the commission, if it cannot prove them follow them up in several generations. Of course, this commission did not physically exist for 30 years or more, but in the reports and talks with the "Transparency International" representatives, you will find out: to follow, therefore, one trail which is untouchable in two generations. Look suddenly at the third off-shore company, islands in the Caribbean owned. Therefore, the commission needs long-term long-term security in a sense in which it will not be in one case that is not at the moment proving something is going to end, but will eventually remain. But I would always be careful in repressive measures. It's always at the border of the sculpture from democratic to non-democratic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56096	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56097	I thank my colleague Peric-Vac for this addition to NGOs. I'll tell you that maybe we're wrong about not using NGOs anymore in many segments of our work. I was recently in Italy, and when was the crime and corruption debate that they invited? They called on the head man "Transparency Internetional" in charge of Southeast Europe that is Mr. Miklos Marshall and I have never heard in my life such a comprehensive and professionally competent exposure to what can be done in the prevention of crime and corruption. I think that's the way we have to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56098	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56099	When you spoke about the necessity of extending the powers of the commission, Dr. Doric, then certainly also on this trail that you pointed out, and many, that something should be done in this sense especially if, therefore, the disproportionateness can not only end the whole story at a fine, but rather be forwarded to the State's Attorney's Office and to the Tax Administration or to some other bodies. However, unless the Commission's intensity is anywhere in the world or in Europe to turn the commission into an operational investigative body. It would then be competition for both the State's Attorney's Office and the IRS and the Financial Police. It is the urgency of this commission that it blasphemes such a politician, and the other consequences of all this will be carried out by other investigative bodies. Because otherwise, if it were to become an operational investigative body, it would be a direct competition to the State's Attorney's office and the police themselves, which we really don't need. And secondly, if we had already decided on such a parallel system, then that means absolutely changing the whole concept of human selection, absolute professionalisation and, above all, MPs would have no participation. This would mean opening a public tender, so a completely different concept than we have here and which many countries we have in a similar way. So agreeing with you that these things should be complemented in any case, but not the intensity of the commission to be an operational investigative body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56100	Replica reply, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56101	I thank my colleagues for this question, because you're giving me a chance to explain what they actually wanted. So they asked us if you had your own capacity to explore something, but not explore it in terms of investigators, but if we're networked into a tax system and other bodies, then we're entering their databases. We get out of it what we need, so we don't have to move them for every thing by the sleeve, etc. It must be one connected, coordinated system, networked, therefore, I would say three things we lack about coordination, coordination and coordination.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56102	Thank you. And final consideration, Reverend Mate Kacan, chairman of the commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56103	Thank you very much. Here I would not be longer, only I would thank everyone for the suggestions and the commended work of the commission, and try to promise that the commission will try to adopt suggestions and remarks in its future work. Here's a thank you all one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56104	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote once the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56105	16. Report by the Commission on the conflict of interest for 2009 on the Croatian Parliament. The applicant shall be responsible for the decision-making committee on the conflict of interest. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the National Assembly Working Body, I am voting the conclusion: a report on the Commission's decision to decide on a conflict of interest for the year 2009 to the Croatian Parliament is accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This report by the Commission was unanimously accepted by 96 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56106	Let's move on to the agenda. It is up to the 8th point - - Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the Research Commission for the Determination of Facts on Privatisation of INA – Oil Industry d.d. and all contracts and additions between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the strategic partner MOL Hungarian Oil. and gas-pulc. Proposer: Investigative Commission for Determination of Facts on Privatisation of INA – Oil Industry d.d. and all contracts and additions between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the strategic partner MOL Hungarian oil. and gas-pulc. The investigation committee proposed an amendment to the decision pursuant to Article 87. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. Does the president want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Dear Zgrebec, president of the commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56107	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Just a few sentences. On 23 December this year, the Croatian Parliament made a decision to set up this investigation committee, in whose jurisdiction it is to examine the privatisation process, so it sells 25% plus one share to the strategic partner, transfer to the Defence Fund, sell to employees of former employees, then public offer of shares, contracts related to it, which is the Treaty on the Relations of Shareholders, first amendment and addition of that contract, as well as contracts relating to the transfer, i.e. the purchase of gas business by the Republic of Croatia. In view of the high volume of tasks to be investigated by the commission, i.e. the vast number of documentation collected, and meanwhile, it was also requested that the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia be made aware of whether a judicial procedure is being conducted in relation to the processes investigated by the investigating commission. That's what we got, we expect more government evidence, can she, in agreement with MOL, take the confidentiality mark off some of the contracts, specifically the main gas business treaty and the first addition to the gas business contract. Since the deadline of 3 months for the work of the committee expires on 23 July, the investigation committee unanimously concluded that the extension of the deadline for another 3 months was proposed to the Croatian Parliament, which is in accordance with the Law on the Investigation Commissions, i.e. the amendment of point 5 of the decision, where the work of the commission is extended to 6 months instead of 3 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56108	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate and we're going to vote on the necessary conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56109	17. Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the Research Commission to establish the facts concerning the privatisation of INA Oil Industry d.d., and all contracts and additions of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Strategic Partner MOL Hungarian Oil, the Proposer Research Commission for the determination of facts relating to the privatisation of INA Oil Industry d.d., and all contracts and additions of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Strategic Partner MOL Hungarian Oil. The debate is closed, and I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The decision was made by a majority of 95 votes for one abstention, nothing against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56110	We're crossing, point nine, we're not going to argue because we have no conditions. The board didn't hold. We move to item 10, which is - - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the right to access information, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 570 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Edmond Miletic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56111	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56112	Excuse me, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56113	Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56114	That's the way it Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56115	Dear ladies and gentlemen. The obligation to pass this law stems from an action plan in the anti-corruption strategy, adopted by the government in June 2008, and the current law itself was passed in 2003. The current law has identified certain shortcomings that need to be removed, whether improvement of existing institutes, or the introduction of some new institutes stemming from international documents. The content itself or the proposal for this law was drawn up with the help of civil society representatives, but unfortunately the representatives of civil society did not adopt the part relating to the introduction of a new institute that would decide on the rights of access to information, which is the Commissioner for Information. The content itself relates briefly to improving the public authority's idea, improving the concept of information, introducing a test of public interest, so if the public's interest tends to get some information, then certain degrees of secrecy can be downloaded from certain data, and some data can be obtained from the public. It is also proposed to ensure more effective supervision of the implementation of the Law, the current supervision only by the Ministry of Administration has shown certain shortcomings and therefore also to be proposed by the relevant authorities. Further improvements relate to the appeal procedure and the provisions relating to deadlines within which a supplement or correction of information may be requested. Authors of the right to information under the provisions of this proposal are proposed to be exempt from payment of administrative fees. What has proved to be a great shortage in the current application of this Law, which is a lack of provisions that would sanction the neglect of the provisions of this law. As already stated in the report on the implementation of this Law in the Assembly, a large part of the units of local self-government do not respect the provisions of this law at all and are deafened to their obligation to submit reports on the implementation of this Act, therefore, in the text of this proposal, it is proposed that the responsible persons in public authorities are sanctioned unless they comply with their obligations. Given that this is an extremely important law, the Proposer proposes that you support the reference of this Act in the follow-up procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56116	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Not that I can see. Before we open the debate, one notice. The 36th session of the Committee on Gender Equality will be held today at 14 o'clock in the Chamber of Ivan Kukuljević, and invited to respond. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative Željka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The law on access to information was passed for the first time in the Republic of Croatia back in 2003. Since this was the first experience of getting into this area of availability of information related to the strengthening and development of democracy, and also fundamental human rights, it is logical that this first bill was at the very beginning of a law that could not be expected and knew what effects and results would be given. It was soon after the law came into force and after its application that it became clear that the Law had certain irregularities, that it did not fully ensure the full and necessary execution of all those points prescribed or that it did not provide for all those who wished to obtain public information full and public availability. In his opening statement, the government's representative pointed to some of these weaknesses, some indetermination or simply legal provisions that did not meet the desired goal. Even in the previous term of the Parliament, from the civil society most interested in such a law, very well-intentioned, very democratic initiatives in the direction that this law is being corrected, changed, that everything that is a problem in this Law is not under the pressure of either Europe, nor under any great pressure of civil society has changed. To this day, however, the government did not show initiative and did not go out with its proposals. Speaking here on behalf of the SDP Club, I must also warn of the draft law dealing with this issue in part, which the Government has rejected in its own time, and the Parliament has rejected it, it was not discussed, it is a bill that would introduce the Commissioner for Information as an independent institution that would ensure the full application of the Access of Information Act. The law was re-established in the procedure, we of the SDP Club re-puted it, and it was just as we saw that the government had finally shown the initiative to want more quality solutions in the existing law. Freedom of information and thus the right to the availability of information at the disposal of public authorities is one of the fundamental human rights, it also states in the light of this Law. And therefore, all of us, including the government that proposes this Law, should be of interest to this time when we are trying to change what is not resolved in the existing Law, to get those solutions that will truly ensure full availability. The lack of democratic development, the great choice of the state through us are the real reason why it comes or which led to the non-compliance of this law. Namely, the bureaucracy that governs this country, and which has the patronage of political powers for it, is one of the reasons why all those interested in obtaining information about how taxpayers' money is available, what that money is invested in, whether it is invested in accordance with rules that we can call fair and moral, whether they are investing in accordance with the interests of the country's development, individual interest groups, are all the reasons why citizens want to and for which the state, if it wants to create a democratic atmosphere and a democratic picture towards its citizens, but also towards the world, has to take account. There must be a political interest to really come to a law that will allow each of these public information of interest to be available to the public. Until now, different levels of authority of the body, public authorities have acted in a way that is that all the information and powers they have their right to account for are to no one and to which they do not have to give any information. It's actually usually hiding information, manipulating the public, manipulating citizens, manipulating democratic relations. Of course, it is not only because of the blatantness of bureaucracy or the boast of political authorities, but that there are different interests behind all this hiding information. Hide information, inaccessible information, a law that does not fully open up information to the public, creates a suitable ground and conflicts of interest that was just before and for different types of corruption, for different types of abuses that may eventually come out in public, but usually when the damage has already been done and when too much time has passed to fix something and even less prevent it. The very idea behind this law and the moment it was passed in 2003, but even today when we're trying to change it to make it better, it's actually being selected. And in this law, I think too much attention is given to what's called a state secret or a different kind of secrecy of that information. In democratic societies, there is less and less secret and inaccessible data, or if we want to be a democratic society, then almost no data other than that relating to the issue of national security, and in some international relations, can hardly be inaccessible to the public. The most public interest exists for exactly what data suggests how money is collected in the state register and how the money from the state register is spent. Is it spent rationally? Whether it is spent in the interests of citizens who provide or manipulate that money. We still have a situation that public authorities don't open up to their citizens. On the contrary, I constantly dare say that through this law, it seeks a way to avoid the obligation to provide information, how to keep the information hidden. This law should exclude all those provisions which, during its application, may be an alibi for non-compliance with this law and not for the provision of information to anyone seeking that information. The objective of amending this law and any provisions that should ultimately be adopted would be to ensure that, without exception, every citizen, every legal person seeking information regardless of the reasons why he is looking for it, that information gets it. The most frequently requested information is precisely because they are trying to protect certain interests of individuals or groups or legal persons who are in some way at risk in the overall business of the state. In the light of this law, there is another note I would like to mention, which indicates that in fact the current political authority and does not have the right interest to open up to the citizens, but to continue to preserve this space of evil should not have been for its own manipulations. It is mentioned that these amendments to the law are, among other things, based on an action plan, with the Anti-Corruption Strategy adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in June 2008. We're in 2010, it's been two years. And don't let anyone get mad, but I will rightly ask the question. Why did it take us two years to come up with a proposal for this law, if it is one of the resistances that should affect the reduction of corruption in Croatia? And we know that corruption is one of the major problems of this country, we know that this corruption stems from the abuse of political, but also from public authorities or from the abuse of political and public authorities by those who have usurped it, whether by calling for the number of votes they have received in the elections or by calling for some other powers stemming from the law. This bill and it is written in an explanation, it was done with representatives of civil society. I have no information at this time whether the representatives of civil society who are consulted sign this law. That's not what it says. But I dare say that they do not accept this bill as what is best what we can do in Croatia right now. Although this law proposes some improvements in relation to the process of obtaining information and to the procedure and rights of those who ask for information in relation to their complaints. It is true that it is no longer as it was in the first law that one who is obliged to give information and ultimately responds or decides to be a second-degree body that decides whether the information is right or without basis is denied. However, this bill still does not go to what would be best, to that solution which is some standard in democratic countries, which is that there is an independent body, an independent individual, we have called it the Commissioner for Information in the bill we have proposed, which I mentioned at the beginning. We still think that such an independent individual, or one small body, will be able to complain to those who have been denied the information and who will guarantee that this second-degree solution will then be credible or will be consistent with what is required and expected, and that is that anyone who asks for that information from the body of the public authority and gets it. It is a key objection that we have to this law and we think the answer to that question lies in the bill proposed by the SDP. And we think it would be good to go to another reading in that direction to supplement or amend this proposal and to get really the law that will be the best possible democratic standard and open bodies of public authorities, to open bodies where the political authority is reflected for citizens who have the right to know, who have the right to control what is done on their behalf, whether it is benefit or harm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56118	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. When I look at this bill, the amendment and the addition of the law, then I remember here are at least the last two reports on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information where all of us in this assembly were eager to expect changes and additions and to suggest that they should be prepared as soon as possible. Of course, the Ministry of Administration said in the last report that the law was being prepared and that we would get it soon. Namely, free information here is what counterpart Antunovic said on behalf of the SDP club, and thus the right to the availability of information is one of the fundamental human rights and we all need to know that. Each person shall have the right to receive information when requested and shall not be denied it. This bill of law is, here are a few important things. In its contents, we can see a few important things, and that is, for example. that the meaning of the concept of the public authority is extended. Therefore, it has been extended to legal persons whose programmes or actions have been legally identified as public interest, which is therefore fully or partly financed from the state budget or the budget of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. Furthermore, what seems very important to me is that this law introduces a new concept relating to a test of public interest and proportionality in the event of a lack of information. Therefore, Article 4(3) of the amending and supplementing this law provides that the exceptional public authority is competent to act on a request to allow access to information if such behaviour is in the public interest and necessary for the achievement of the law of the intended purpose. So this is what the ministry has announced to be a newspaper, and here I believe that this will make information available to public authorities to those who have asked for information more accessible and better. What's also kind of good and commendable, which is that the authorities' right to access information will be exempt from paying administrative fees in procedures. However, it remains the right of public authorities to compensate for the material costs incurred by providing information. The criteria for determining the amount of compensation will be determined, of course later, probably by the rules. So here I appeal to you, Mr. Secretary of State, to think about when they are establishing and determining whether or not there is time until the second reading, whether it would be appropriate to get rid of it by law or by establishing or by setting criteria, to free certain categories of our citizens from paying that fee. Here I think of persons with disabilities and others, perhaps socially endangered citizens, certainly those with disabilities who are not employed and who live on very small means, are unable to pay such a fee. Even though we don't know how much she's going to be, here's what I suggest you think about in order to make some kind of good and quality solution and to improve this law. I believe that all the proposals that we, too, will have that you will take a good look at them, although it seems to me that this proposal has already taken a step forward and that the law will be better and better quality, therefore this is what the procedure under the appeal of the authorising officer is in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act. And it seems to me that, what seems very important to me is, and we all know when we discussed reports on the implementation of the law that the big problem was and that we all warned that some public authorities were indeed being irresponsible in a way that they did not deliver a report to the Ministry of Administration within the scheduled time period so that, of course, the ministry couldn't deliver, or make a full report. These amendments in Article 25 and Article 13 thereof, adding in a way new items in Article 25 I think it's good that it's determined which report contains the data. So we can expect that the following reports will be more complete and better and more understandable, which will certainly make it easier for those reading them to understand. And what is very important is that those who do not report that they will be responsible within the deadline. Therefore, in the body of the public authority responsible persons punished from 1000 to 5000 kuna, so probably everyone will consider how much better it is in time to submit the report than to bear responsibility. It is important to say that to implement, to adopt and implement these amendments and supplement laws, there is no need to provide additional resources in the state budget, and it seems very important to me that these amendments and additions were made, that civil society associations also participated. I don't think the Ministry would have written it here in an explanation without it. But here's the first reading, and second, I believe that if they still have any suggestions, they can deliver and say what they think about this law. Anyway, I think this is a good suggestion, that until the second reading, it can be even better and better. Certainly here on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I would like to point out that we support the proposal to amend and supplement this law in the first reading, and I believe that here we will finally get really one quality law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56120	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56121	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Proposer's representative, colleagues and colleagues. When, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired Party Club, some two months ago, I held the views of our parties on the latest annual report on the implementation of this right to access information, I presented on behalf of our parties a whole series of objections and a very sharp, resolute criticism of the practices of the Central Authority of the state administration which has promised for years to amend and supplement the legal text in order to increase the level of effectiveness of the implementation of the law itself. But it hasn't done anything for years. And there, not three days after that debate came an invitation from the Ministry of Administration itself to organise among other things and one meeting on the subject of amendments and the addition of the Law on the right to access information. You should say it right away. We think it's great. So that kind of reaction, I don't believe that this debate was the first and first step in the ministry on that plan. It lasted a few months and before, but it was obvious that the ministry was in some way faced with very sharp criticism, especially opposition and parliamentary clubs decided to speed up this process and that's good. Because in this whole business, it's actually been late for a long time. Discussions on reports, on the exercise of the right to information, on public information, that is to say, information that must be made known in order to achieve the rights that citizens have, which also have legal and natural persons, therefore, is very important for the overall story of democratisation of relations, but also for enabling citizens to exercise quality, in time and with full capacity their elemental rights in communication with public authorities, etc. The authorities of public authority because, practically, until this proposal to amend and supplement laws, we did not have a clear definition of what it was, so it was handled by numbers of several thousand such bodies. With this definition there, we have not narrowed down this space, but at least now we know that all those we rightly considered by the public authorities are now definitely and framed by that definition and that there is no longer the possibility that municipal courts, lawyers, but also public enterprises, institutions avoid their law established obligations for regular annual reporting on the implementation of this law. The key problems arising from the years of discussions on the quality and content of the reports submitted by the Government, or the Ministry, at that time and the Central Public Administration Office can actually come to light on several of the most important points. The first is the overall attitude of the body with public authority towards citizens. So, generally, it could be estimated that this relationship was completely ignored. We were unable to identify from that sample that varied annually between 15% and 20% of those who actually submitted reports what this general attitude towards citizens was, but the fact that 80 or more percent of the public authorities did not consider it necessary to fulfil their legal obligation to report already in some way smelled like a massive form of violation of the legal obligation, and that means one illogical relationship with the citizens themselves. Because citizens cannot achieve a full set of their law-based rights unless they have relevant information at their disposal by public authorities. Furthermore, we have seen that the process of reporting on law enforcement is completely inadequate, because an absolutely unrepresentative sample has been offered to us for years as one general picture of the situation, and then from what those in that section provided, we have assessed simply how the entire body sector relates to public powers. Furthermore, very big problems in the implementation of this law are still the famous, famous guideline issued in the Central Office of the State Administration, in which it is explicitly stated that one who does not call upon the right defined by law is not considered an authority whose body of public authority is practically required under this law to meet and provide public information. So if, in your request to the public authority, you did not explicitly refer to the law, you were not treated as an authority. It's not defined by law. And it's not something that comes out of the law. But it has been defined by a regulation that has been dealt with by many bodies with public authority, and that is something that needs to be put out of force as soon as possible. All those who are legally prescribed as right of access to information shall have the right to obtain that information irrespective of whether they are called upon by the public authority or not in their address. As with all other rights laid down by other laws. The right to health care is not shown in an accident in such a way as to tell the medical staff that you are calling for the right laid down by the Health Protection Act. That's crazy. All other rights arising from the law, the Constitution, the constitutional law is not realised by you verbalizing your right and calling for a certain regulation because it is general and valid for all, both for the provider and for the recipient of the service. In this particular case, information. It is well of course that another problem has been solved, or at least it is proposed to resolve, which is to enable the Ministry of Administration, because it is the central body mentioned here, that sanctions responsible bodies with public authority or public authorities, and fines unless they fulfil their annual reporting obligation, which is good, here and defined in time and in the prescribed form. Because someone can formally send a piece of paper on which to write three sentences that show absolutely nothing, if he formally satisfied his legal obligation, like you can't do anything to him. It is good to define here that this report must be on time, so within the time limit prescribed by law and form, or in the form, as one article has specifically defined, what this report must contain. This fine of 5 thousand kuna is approximately 20% of the salary of senior officials, or the head of a body with public authority. However, what we are concerned about and what has been warned by NGOs that participated in the debate and preparation of this proposal for amending and supplementing the law, and where the Commissioner for Public Information, or an independent body, which could monitor this whole process by means of a law establishing the exercise of rights, is now, and only in the form of formal supervision, being transferred to the Ministry of Administration. The public interest is to have an independent body, which is not part of the government's administration, which will oversee the implementation of this law. It's a general public interest. We can trust as much as we want in the good intentions of the Government or the Ministry of Administration, but if it is an integral part of the Government's administration, so in some cases, we do not have an independent assessment of the implementation of this law of the bodies that must comply with this law and report regularly. In the original proposal defined within the Ministry of Public Discussion, the institute was defined. He was lost on June 17th when the proposal came to the government. So on the way from the Ministry of Administration to the Croatian Parliament, he was lost, and this is being warned by NGOs, who ask why, because they consider it a certain kind of fraud. They were not given arguments to justify such a maneuver. Of course it's about first reading. It is a document that will be submitted and certain corrections. It's a proposal that's complemented. We have a procedure in Parliament and a SDP proposal. It would not be good if the issue of an independent body were defined by a special regulation. It would be good for him to be an integral part of this Corps, which determines how to exercise the right to access information. As regards the Croatian People's Party Club, the Croatian Party of Retired, we welcome the intention of the Ministry of Administration and the Government to join the final amendments to the laws that will allow for its better implementation, supervision, punishment for those who do not respect it, but also ask for the second reading of the Institute of the Independent Body to be returned to the proposal, i.e. define and propose to the Croatian Assembly in a way that can guarantee independent supervision of the implementation of this law, i.e. the exercise of the right to access information that is definitely becoming the universal right of all citizens, in particular, legal and natural persons are said here. We will support this proposal in the first reading, but we need colleagues from the Ministry of Administration to think very carefully about returning this concept of an independent body to the text, and not to stop public debate on this matter, but to continue until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56122	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. And the first is the honourable representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56123	Thank you very much, Vice President. And right at the beginning one appeal to you. When we go to another reading, please, it has been a good practice in the Croatian Parliament so far, when we have two laws with a similar, or with a match, whether they come from the Government or from the opposition, we have always brought them together. Now you have the agenda under point 55 of the Commissioner's Law, I must admit that I expected the Presidency of the Parliament, or the President, to put together that agenda and two points of the agenda. Well, since one and the other laws are now in the first reading, so I'd like to ask you to put that law on the second reading of this Government proposal, because it's only then that these two laws make us an acceptable whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56124	I agree with you, but the problem is that this other law doesn't have the conditions, so we can't put it in the process, so we'll do it another time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56125	In fact, the procedure for passing this law was spoken of by a colleague, Beus. That we decided, after 2, 2 and a half years, to reroute this Bill on Commissioners for Information on Procedure actually when we knew which version would come to us in the Croatian Parliament. So, as we had the chance to hear, there were two versions of one with the Commissioner, the other without the Commissioner. I would ask the motionary not to give us an argument because there is no money, because when it comes to these rights arising from the Law on the right to access information, I don't think it stands. My colleague Cain said something to democracy today and said democracy is expensive but you have it either you don't, or we will have the right to access information or we won't. So, I was when we proposed this Law more time ago, then we called on our neighbours in the west and we talked about the Slovenian model, the German model. Unfortunately, today might also be referred to our eastern neighbours, who also have a commissioner. Where we are now in a situation, we are now in a situation where we are one of the few countries that we have resolved the legislative question of access to information, but we do not have an independent body that would be in charge of implementing this Law or its supervision and control. Now that I mention this commissioner, the question of conducting a test of public interest. My question is simply who will conduct the test of public interest. That's where you get him, and then he introduces himself, but we're actually staying at that level, at that level of cadium that's suing you, cadiya's suing you. In fact, I just think that these things, if we really want to solve problems and if we want to give citizens the right to access information, then we have to look at the whole thing a little differently. It would be incorrect to say that this law did not make any steps, but I think they are small and that they are not enough to actually get one such weight and such a democratic meaning that they should have in a democratic society. My colleagues used to say something about it. I think the key question is calling on this law. You can see here that the implementation of this Law will cost 5 million kunas and that these 5 million kunas will be spent on educating and informing citizens about this Law and that when they seek some information in their municipality or city about a communal problem that they do not need to be answered by that body unless they know or if they do not write to call on this Law. I don't think that's serious. Because if that were the case then we wouldn't have that information that we have in the previous report, which is that, with 4,000 more than 4,000 public authorities, we got all the information for 2009 688. We all know that's impossible. We know that part of the public authority did not provide data and on the other hand we know that those who supplied data did not take into account those information which did not refer to this Act. I think that's the key question. When you take this Law, why else does the Commissioner matter to us, you, when you visually examine this Law, know what is the longest article, and then step on it, that's the article that tells you about bans. This is the article that speaks when a public authority is not required to provide information. That's why we need a commissioner. Any more capable clerk will find a reason not to give you information. They will appeal to the law of secrecy, in the worst case, they will not give you information because it violates any process or something that is happening in the body of the public authority at that moment, so we need a Commissioner as an independent body who will evaluate and assess whether or not the actual denial of certain information is legal or not legal. This is how we actually leave it at will for civil servants or some employees in some other public authorities to actually deny the information by referring to one of these reasons. And you'll agree with me that it's a very large number. So, let me finish. I think simply because we go into two readings, that we should take advantage of the opportunity and introduce the Commissioner, so that we should write it a little more clearly in certain variants, that is, in certain parts of this Law. Let's just say for me, it's not clear to me that the change in this article 2 in the old law I think that's Article 3 or Article 2 but in point 3 which means a fraction of the information which means the whole information, this is about defining what information is, it's kind of weird to me. So the information is written in image, etc. This last line doesn't make any sense to me. It seems to me that in the old law it's much better defined. So, while it is a step forward but not enough and I am not sure that this law will provide what we all advocated during the last debate on the implementation report so far, but also what would be desirable and good for our citizens. If I have to say in my own, if, say, this law doesn't have some correction, I won't be able to vote for it, at the very least, I will be abstention, because I know that by not introducing Commissioners, not by defining how a test of public interest will actually be carried out, there will be no step forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56126	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56127	Well, my colleague Lucin mentioned education, and I must say that Transparency International and the City of Zabok from the 4th month, and by the end of the year they're conducting citizenship education and the general public for this topic that you've been talking about with the working name "I have the right to know". The surveys and surveys we conducted among our citizens anonymously showed that the citizens of Zabok know above average and are familiar with the fact that there is a law, that 62% of respondents know that. However, when you enter details of the satisfaction of those who have sought or did not seek information and what they have received, you get a high percentage of more than 40% of them who are not satisfied with the information they have received or feedback. However, what results from this study? Yes, citizens are focused on local self-government units as the lowest form of government and raise questions that are not from areas for which local self-government, water industry, Croatian forest, Croatian road and, as soon as it does not get an answer from the institution, it considers the local self-government unit responsible. And that's why this question you mentioned, the question of education is really important with everything that we're going to apply in law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56128	Thank you. Mr. Shime Luchin's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56129	But I'd like to mention my colleague's education, but the education of people who are obliged to answer the questions raised by citizens. You see, if we had educated personnel who were in charge of answering the citizens when they got that request, so, relating to a government body, then that clerk or that person would inform or inform the citizen that he has to contact another address. Therefore, it is another problem that we talked more about when we discussed the latest report, which is an insufficient effort by the ministry. There has been a certain effort, we know, but it was necessary to make even more efforts to make sure that people working in public authorities who have an obligation to take care of information citizens actually educate and to be able to respond to citizens' demands. Given that some penalties are also prescribed in the current law and given that they are taxed in the manner in which it should be done, I believe that, with the efforts and education of officials and subsistence, we will take a certain step.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56130	Thank you very much. I would like to announce that tomorrow we would have a vote at 11.30 for some reason that some MPs will have to leave early. Now all the points we're going to have, I don't know, but to vote at 11.30 with that if we have time and if we do this time in those votes, then we can extend the debate a little bit more. But the debate is to be within what we do on Fridays and to do as far as 13.00 hours, if that's okay with you. Here, thank you. More of Mrs. Representative Sunny Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be right there if my colleagues agree to just a little bit of what was mentioned, which is the education of people working in public authorities. So, I can say from my own experience, I agree that information officers should be educated and also reminded that there are information officers in both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the ministries. I was an information officer in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I think we have advised and helped citizens to get information. What we each should also start by ourselves, which is that we can, as parliamentary representatives, initiate such education to be conducted, which will be in Međimurje County. The HDZ will organise and I think it is good, despite the fact that the law was passed in 2003 and despite the efforts of the GONG and Transparency International, we know that they had a whole series of actions financed by the state budget. So citizens have a right to know, remember that they were big actions. But of course, it should continue to tell people how I can get information. Equally, the number of rights to access information has increased, and we have witnessed this precisely because citizens know or are increasingly aware of how they can handle it. On the other hand, there has been a reduction in some public authorities. I'll explain why. And this is because other ways have started to be used, and these are electronic publications or more available information on the websites either the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As for the Law on the right to access information, I am glad that you have noticed that we are one of the few countries that has such a law or a legislative framework. Of course, like any law and this one is subject to amendments, subject to additions and, of course, no law has yet been perfect, so I'm allowing us to have interventions about this law. The multiannual application of the Law on the right to access information has just led to the knowledge of some of its shortcomings in practice, which now seeks to correct this proposal or we will do so until the second reading. In this context, the meaning of the terms of the right to information and information is more clearly determined and the circle of public authorities which are required to comply with the law is extended. I will just point out that some cities may have been such examples, and they simply felt that they did not fall into that circle and thus did not provide the information they needed. The amendments to the Law on the right to access information have just been amended to remind one of the measures taken by an action plan to combat corruption. And as many times as you can in a public debate that was conducted could be heard. The amendment of the Law on the right to access information is one of the measures to be taken to set up new legal and institutional frameworks to combat corruption. It has been repeatedly highlighted in a public debate on the draft bill. The new legislative proposal also provides for penalties for those responsible for not delivering a law enforcement report in due time and within the legal period. Reports so far have to be acknowledged, very often have not been delivered in due time, they were rarely incomplete, which is why they could not get the right images from the field. But now the content is prescribed, which is very important, which must contain reports from the public authorities. And I think the proposed amendments will result in better law enforcement. Of course, if there's any need, it'll intervene. Commendation also for participation in the task force. The Ministry of Administration has been working with representatives of civil society associations. And I also think that it is good that what is provided for in Article 19, which is amended and paragraph 3 says that criteria should be laid down for determining the amount of compensation which was sometimes confusing because, at times, paragraph 2 provided that public authorities in the exercise of the right to access information have the right to compensate for the actual material costs that we, too, could have asked ourselves sometimes in which way. Therefore, there will now be criteria set out, the amount of compensation referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, which will be prescribed by the Head of the Central Authority responsible for the tasks of the General Administration. I call once again on civil society representatives from this place to cooperate with public authorities, or with the ministry that has worked to amend the law, as they have so far. If there is going to be a need we can get involved here in the Assembly, do some thematic session to see what else we can do to make information that is of interest to the public, our citizens do what is available because there are no secrets of course in these frameworks in which the law prescribes it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56132	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56133	Thank you very much. Well, buddy, we only have one problem, and that one problem looks like this. I find it incomprehensible that 4.5 million citizens,... Be careful there were only 688 requests for some information. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's incomprehensible that when the law came into force the first year we had 12,000 demands and something, and now it fell 20 times. I don't think that's 120 grand, then I'd say it's okay, instead of having progressive growth we have a fall. And something about the NGO sector. ... Because the government's sector is cooperating, it's only the fact that what the NGO was representing and why he stood up for in the working groups when this law was drafted has not been passed and has not been taken into account. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I don't know if the NGO will cooperate in the coming period as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56134	Thank you. Answer, Mrs. Representative, Sunny Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You didn't listen very carefully to me, all my exposure. I explained why it was less, explained why she was less asked. Because you have more basics, allow me, you have more basics on which you can achieve or obtain information. That's what I explained. So there are electronic publications, they are updated in public authorities and websites, more and more people are using information technology. Therefore, and this is one of the reasons why information can be obtained in different ways than by written submission or declaration in the minutes. As for the Commissioner for Information that you have proposed, or NGOs, the bodies of the public authorities have an information officer, so assume that they are qualified people, and besides, the law has now provided for additional education for those people who already exist there. So it is, but I don't think it's necessary to have a body like this or a person who's going to work on it in particular. Therefore, I do not need the Commissioner, or the Commissioner, because there are information officers who are in their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56136	Thank you very much. Now we'd take a break by 3:00 when we continue the session and this agenda. The first gentleman is Ivan Hanžek, then Ana Lovrin and Susana Bilić-Vardić. I'm asking at 3:00, then. Also, in 13.33 the application for 10 minutes will expire. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56137	Continuing the session and the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the right to access information. Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56138	Since I am asked by both the Vice President and the Proposer to cut short, I am not going to repeat something that I used in replicas, about the need for education, but I will point out one thing that I think would be good to include in the final draft of the law, which is that, in particular, local self-government can, on behalf of fellow citizens, citizens who address it with questions that are intended for the other institution of public authorities, ask for an answer, and in such a way that we do not put ourselves in a position to talk to citizens in a jargon. Because if any citizen is more in pain than unaccompanied information, it's that you send him from institution to institution and you tell him he has a right, but he has to address another address. Secondly, especially when it comes to public enterprises, institutions such as Croatian Waters, Croatian Forests, Croatian Roads, I think that there should be a special emphasis that these are institutions that most often do not respond to citizens and are deafened to requests for concrete and deductible answers to queries and even the institution authorities were those local or regional ones. I object to fees that should strengthen citizens when they ask or institutions ask for an answer. Because if these institutions are a public service, then I assume that through service or tax they ensure the functioning of these institutions and unless it is an extremely large material that requires special material costs, I see no reason why one paper or four paper requires payment of compensation to citizens. And finally, I believe that the Commissioner, if everyone else has realized that there is a need for a Commissioner and it is good for informing citizens and providing citizens' rights to information, that we should also go to such an institution, not to a new agency, not to a new numerically strong institution, but to a sufficient public authority that can ensure the implementation of this law and civil rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56139	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56140	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I didn't get this acronym application, though, but I didn't think I'd talk too long and repeat what's already been said here. But here's because it's about the first reading I think it's time we maybe warn some institutes so that they might be in something better and better quality if it's not pretentious to say it. Of course I support the adoption of this law. In the end, I must say that standards right to access information or even the right of citizens to receive information about the work of public authorities are high-level in Croatia. After all, with recent amendments to the Constitution last month, we raised this civil right to constitutional level. So, we have determined that the Constitution guarantees access to information owned by authorities, and restrictions on access to information must be proportionate to the nature of the need for a restriction in each case and necessary in a free and democratic society, and prescribed by law. So also these changes in the first after 2003, so after one long-term application of this law and introduced this test of public interest. And now let me get to the specifics. It says Article 8 which changes that public authorities will deny access to information if the information is classified by a degree of secrecy. In the study of this article, I would like to warn perhaps just not whether this is clear enough, so that the exceptional public authority responsible for handling will allow access to information if such access is in the public interest. So that would be that test, a test of public interest. But I guess it was thought that according to the law that regulates this area, so according to that law, it was then declassified and then became similar to giving public information. Well then, in that context, maybe this item 4 that might not even be needed to say when something stops being a secret that it is then available to the public or that part that is not secret that it can be made available to the public, so it's in itself. It seems to me that this is insane because it is understood in itself, and also in this exception from the right to access if intellectual property is injured. Well, now we have a provision that says, that this information becomes available to the public if it is determined by the one to whom the damage could be caused, but for the longest time in 20 years. I don't think that's necessary here, because it's probably settled by the Copyright Act and it won't be possible to be any different than it was settled there. Contrary to my colleague, I would not easily say that they would be compensated to leave out the payment of compensation for material costs in the process of accessing information. Of course, under criteria that will be specifically prescribed. So, this law relieves fees, all claimers of access to information which is fine. On the other hand, however, abuses should be prevented. So, you're probably in Zabok, and a lot of people believe that there have been any questions, so I'm also witnessing that there was one question to put in, to deliver all the balances of the container suppliers from 1997 to today. Then when it's said that it's a big documentation, to choose to conduct an insight then it's said copy us. Therefore, because of the possibility of such excesses, it may be necessary to establish that there has been no abuse. But of course, to develop the criteria under which, under which and how this compensation can be sought. But now the most important, which is Article 17, so the amendment to Article 17. To date, the law provided that, in the event of refusal to adopt a decision on the refusal of access to information or the provision of certain information, the appeal should be submitted to the head of the body. And it was quite clear who the head of the body was, but the objection was cadium and judgment, cadiya sued you, so what the commissioner didn't give, as if the leader would give. So we should've been looking for another body. We had experts from the European Commission here the other day. They also discussed this law that is in force, the proposed amendments. He objected that the proposed, proposed amendment may be in good interest, but more vague than the existing law. And perhaps in this case not if a first-degree solution has been adopted, so the applicant has the right to make a complaint to the second-degree body, and says of the complaint against the first-degree solution, the central body of the state administration responsible for the administrative area to which the subject matter is concerned. Now, if a solution is made, that solution will also teach the legal remedy, and perhaps the first-degree body will come up with what the second-degree body might be responsible for that administrative area. But if it happens that it does not get any answers, so, if it simply doesn't get information, it doesn't get a solution to the rejection, or information, so it's pretty impossible for the citizen to imagine what the second-degree body would be, let's say, if he asks for information that they are from some local units, if there were some work done on the disposal of the dump, and if it were public procurement for certain jobs, information is not obtained, it's pretty hard to imagine whether it was the Environmental Protection Agency, whether it was the Ministry of Construction, whether it was the Ministry of Economy because it was a public procurement, and not about the operations of waste management, so it really would be difficult for me, and it would certainly be difficult for the average citizen to guess which second-degree body it was. In addition, in this second-degree body, the question of who would decide who would actually be the test and decide whether it is necessary, whether or not to give that information, which level, which level of reference, which jobs to decide on. So here, it might be good to consider that, I am accepting all the reasons and they are clear why not a new body, why not form a new body, a new office, but perhaps within the Ministry of Administration to consider a central second-degree body that would then be educated in terms of this law, and decide by appeal or by complaints about the silence of the administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56141	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Ivan Škaričić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56142	Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Representative Ana Lovrin said something very important to me, which is that we should see how to prevent the abuse of this institute in the world is commendable. It happens that some individuals ask, let's say, what they ask a certain body a year, how that, and it can even be some city councillors. How, I think it's one case, maybe isolated because I personally know it, but maybe not, but there could be so many different cases. Is it limited in a way that they really have to pay them to get it right, to answer such a question, or to limit it simply by a number that someone cannot ask more than 10 questions a year. I think we should sort of regulate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56143	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56144	Thank you very much. Well, yeah, that's one problem, because it's all good when things go well, until someone remembers to abuse the right, it's called abuse of the right. But here are these amendments to the law and something here in Article 8 speaks about when no solution will be made, and there is, and if information is already being asked, or if information is published, or for some reason, it is possible to get that information based on other regulations. Of course, we have all come across such cases in our business, and let's just say that the Ministry of Justice, at the Ministry of Justice, asked for information that exists in the court register, which is a public register and whose owner is therefore a court and only the court can, but it ended up in the Administrative Court after all, because some have insisted that this must be given to a body that is not competent. Here I think maybe these changes are somewhat... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56145	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56146	We move to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the right to access information, that was the first reading, P.Z.E. No. 570, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed, I am voting on the following conclusion: The draft law on amendments to the Law on the right to access information is adopted. Secondly, any observations of the proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This conclusion was adopted unanimously by 92 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56147	Moving to the next point, the parent committee in relation to point 11. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Croatian Radio Television is still in session. Points 12 and 13 have not yet been reported by the parent committees. Point 14 of the Government's meeting and the proposal comes, then the debate will continue with that point, so the final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the budget implementation. And now it is only mature in the agenda for discussion – the final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the preparatory measures for Croatia's participation in the programme for lifelong learning and youth programme in the framework of the IPA programme – the component of assistance in transition and strengthening institutions for 2009, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 574 Proposer of the Government. Emergency procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Finance, the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the proposing deputy central state secretary of the Central State Office for the Development Strategy and the coordination of the European Union funds, Zvonimir Savic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56148	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed MPs and MPs. Here, let me have a very short chronology. On 1 December 2009, the Commission of the European Communities adopted a programme of preparatory measures for Croatia's participation in the Lifelong Learning Programme and the Youth Programme under the 2009 IPA programme, after which a draft financing agreement was submitted by the European Commission in April of this year to the European Union's financial envelope under this Programme. This mentioned Programme consists of one project called the Lifelong Learning and Youth Work Programme preparatory action. Since Croatia has expressed its desire to participate in the Lifelong Learning and Youth Programme programme in action, participation depends on whether candidate countries can meet at all requirements concerning the capacity of national structures, i.e. national agencies, in order to ensure sound financial management of programmes. And the goal of this concrete project is to help Croatia meet these requirements. In short, the preparatory measures will consist of a series of activities, which will be carried out according to the work plan agreed by the Croatian Mobility and Programmes Agency of the European Union, and the European Commission's main administration of education, audio-visual activities and culture. The preparatory measures will have three main objectives, and will mention them very briefly. The first objective is to prepare national programme management agencies through capacity building measures means employment and training of staff. The second is the organisation of information campaigns for potential users, including translation, issue of main documents, seminars, etc. THE third objective, taking part in pilot activities, which will enable the examination and, to an sufficient extent, the capacity of national agencies to manage programmes and enable stakeholders to participate in certain projects in accordance with the rules of this programme. What is important is that the financial resources available to the Republic of Croatia under this programme are 24, over 24 million kuna and around 3.35 million euros respectively. The values allocated by the European Union to the Republic of Croatia are 18 million and 250 thousand kuna, i.e. 2.5 million euros. While the rest of the amount will be provided by the authorities of the state administration in their budgets. The total value of this co-financing is 6 million and 205,000 kuna. What is important is that the financing agreement does not require the adoption or amendment of existing laws but is financially binding on the Republic of Croatia in the amounts I mentioned earlier. Decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia taken at a session in June of this year adopted the text of the draft law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission in connection with the preparatory measures for Croatia's participation in the Lifelong Learning Programme and the Youth Programme in action and under the IPA programme, the first component, within the framework of the 2009 programming year. Finally, it should be noted that this law confirms the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission with regard to the preparatory measures mentioned for the participation of Croatia in the Lifelong Learning Programme and the Youth on Children Programme, and allows for the implementation of all activities under this project, and quality measures carried out and implemented are the conditions for accreditation of the Agency to implement these two programmes. And the Agency's accreditation itself is a condition for the full participation of the Republic of Croatia in these two programmes. The target date of full inclusion agreed during the negotiation process for Chapter 26 of education and culture in the Republic of Croatia is 1 January 2011. Here's your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56149	Thank you. The committees? State budget, finance, legislation? I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative's club, Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56150	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a proposal for a law to confirm the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on preparatory measures for Croatia's participation in the programme for lifelong learning and youth programme in the framework of the IPA programme, assistance in transition and strengthening institutions for 2009 with the Final Proposal, which will be supported by the Croatian Democratic Community Club. In December 2009, the European Commission adopted a national programme for the Republic of Croatia in the IPA Transition Assistance Programme to strengthen institutions for 2009, and in order to implement this programme, it is necessary for the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission to conclude a financing agreement, which forms the basis for the free use of insured funds. I remind you that IPA is an instrument of pre-accession assistance for the period 2007 and 2013 replacing programmes and CARDS, FAR, ISPU and SAPARD, established by Council Regulation No 1085/2006. and its financial value means for the seven-year period and for all beneficiary countries it is 11.5 billion euros, and the basic objectives of the IPA programme are to assist candidate countries, and countries to potential candidates in the harmonisation of national legislation and the implementation of the acquis of the European Union, and to prepare for the use of structural and cohesion funds. I will also remind you that the Republic of Croatia is a beneficiary of all components of the IPA programme from 2007 to the moment of entry into the European Union and therefore the amount of EUR 589.9 million has been secured, of which the transition assistance component strengthens the institutions of 178.1 million euros, and for 2009, 395 million 059 thousand 831 kuna of which is a gift 307 million 304, 439 kuna and the obligations of the Republic of Croatia under this programme are 87 million 719 392 kuna. While the rest of the amounts will be provided by the authorities of the state administration in their budgets. This component supports activities aimed at strengthening democratic institutions and the rule of law, reforming state administration, implementing economic reforms, respect for human and minority rights, promoting regional cooperation, sustainable development and adoption and implementation of the entire acquis of the European Union, and in particular from this component of the preparation of the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of and the agricultural and cohesion policies of the European Union. This proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on preparatory measures for Croatia's participation in the Lifelong Learning and Work Programmes Programme is a legal basis for the financing of projects proposed by the Republic of Croatia under the IPA component of assistance and transition and strengthening institutions for 2009, which regulates the conditions necessary for the delivery of assistance to the European Union, rules, procedures and conditions under which this assistance will be managed. The European Commission already told the Deputy Secretary of State that at the end of 2009 the European Commission adopted preparatory measures for Croatia's participation in the Lifelong Learning and Youth Programme programme means, within the framework of the IPA component programme, assistance in transition and strengthening institutions for 2009, and in order to implement this programme, it is necessary for the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission to conclude a financing agreement that constitutes the basis for the grant of funds under this programme. And the programme consists of one project called the "Preparation Measures for Lifelong Learning and Youth at Work". The Republic of Croatia has expressed its desire to participate in the programme, and such participation depends on whether candidate countries can meet the requirements relating to the capacity of national structures in the first row of the agencies to ensure proper financial management of the programmes. The aim of this project is to help the Republic of Croatia meet these requirements right now. The government of the Republic of Croatia has made a decision to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of the agreement, and the State Secretary as a national co-ordinator for aid programmes and signed this year. The financing agreement itself does not require the adoption of new or amendments to existing laws, but is financially binding on the Republic of Croatia and is therefore subject to confirmation under Article 18. Laws on the enforcement of international contracts. The total value of the preparatory measures for participation in the Lifelong Learning Programme and the Youth Work Programme under the IPA component of transition assistance and strengthening institutions for 2009 is 24 million 445 thousand kuna. The value of allocation from the European Union to the Republic of Croatia is 18m 250 thousand kuna, while the rest of the 6m 205 thousand kuna will be provided by the authorities of the state administration. As regards dynamics, in the 2010 fiscal year for the implementation of the agreement, it is necessary to allocate 20 million 805 thousand kuna from which 14 million and 600 thousand kuna will be financed from IPA, while the amount of 6 million and 205 thousand kuna is secured in the state budget. As for 2011 from the IPA, 3 million 650 thousand kuna is funded while the state budget in 2011 has no obligation in this programme. The preparatory measures will consist of a series of activities to be carried out under the work plan agreed by the Croatian Mobility Agency and the European Union Programmes and the Commission's Chief Administration in charge of these programmes. And the preparatory measures have three objectives, and this is the preparation of national programmes management agencies through capacity building measures, meaning everything related to employment and education. And what the Secretary of State said and the accreditation of our agencies. Furthermore, the second objective of the information campaign for potential users is related to translations, brochures, issue of the main documents, etc. The third objective is to participate in pilot activities which should enable the examination of national agencies' capacities to manage programmes and enable stakeholders to participate in certain projects in accordance with the rules of the programme. Here I hope that the experience and knowledge gained through previous programmes, for example, the Tempus Programme, will also be financed from the European Union's funds, will be useful for preparing for future participation in the Lifelong Learning Programme. Two grant agreements are provided for and completed without a call for a project proposal under this proposal. This is all in line with the European Union delegation. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In Appendix B of the Guarantee Declaration, also under the components of the National Official for the Authentication of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 27 of the IPA Implementing Regulation. I believe that this opportunity is also well pointed out that in October 2009 the European Union accepted a financial package for the Republic of Croatia of up to 2.2 billion euros. And it is only for the sake of comparison as many as 20 times more than the Republic of Croatia has received through the IPA Access Fund in the last two years. In order to make successful use of these funds, it is necessary to seriously complete preparations primarily relating to the professionalisation and training of people who will deal with contracts and competitions and supervision of funds of the Fund but also to speed up the preparation of projects in order to be ready in 2012. At this point, it is truly a great responsibility for us to select ourselves to prepare for the selection of projects, to set priority areas. That's the hard part of the job. But we see that from day to day we are increasingly prepared for such activities. This is why I call on this occasion on behalf of the HDZ Club to make the best use of the other IPA components in particular of one component in transition and institution building but a component of four development of human potentials. I will conclude that we should certainly work harder to have a more organised state administration in order to make the best and efficient use of funds, but it is even more important to prepare for a new functioning. Because by entering the European Union, Croatia will participate on a daily basis in the creation of a common European policy and therefore we must be prepared here and in this segment for life insurance. The HDZ Club supports this bill by believing and expecting that these funds will also contribute to a better preparation for the withdrawal of funds that will be available to us in the future to a greater extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56151	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56152	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the preparatory measures for Croatia's participation in the Lifelong Learning Programme and the Youth Programme in the framework of the IPA Programme of the Transition Assistance Component, strengthening institutions for 2009. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 574, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on this final bill that I have quoted. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement was adopted unanimously by 99 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56153	We are now going back to the previous point - Final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the implementation of the law on money, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 573 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Ivana Maletic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56154	Dear Vice President, thank you very much. Good afternoon, everyone. In fact, in a simpler and more effective way, the law on the implementation of the budget implementation wants to address the issue of cash implementation in relation to existing legal solutions. The new proposed system essentially introduces enforcement through an institution, financial agencies and this is very important because so far it has been done by the banks and the executive and the competent authorities have actually had to submit documentation and try to carry out performances through different banks and actually look for accounts in order to actually get some results in this sense, and now this law means that they are solving that they are actually delivering their documents to one place, which is in the agency. It also eliminates the failures of an existing enforcement system in the accounts of different banks resulting from the inequality of the rules governing the area, which in fact led to the practice in which banks acted differently in the implementation of the implementation of the implementation. Another important news in this law is the introduction of eyewitnesses of order that will then be unique and the agency will be led by the Unique Evidence Order. So far, every bank has run its own, and that was quite untransparent, and now through this unique eyewitness you will really see in one place who has the right to the championship and how that sequence is set. The unique account register of business entities so far is also extended to citizens, meaning both legal and natural persons. And in a horizontal sense, it expands to data not only on accounts but also on savings stakes, hand-to-hand assets, housing savings and deposits in credit unions. Of course, for the sake of secrecy, data will not now be about one individual's data exactly what is the situation in the account, what is the amount of savings and everything else, but it will be indicated that this person has a current account, has a housing savings so that then the procedures of the execution can be carried out. Here is mainly this new law, so this proposal wants to speed up and simplify the procedure for implementation, so to allow faster collection and cost reduction in the implementation of the budget implementation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56155	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? The Justice Committee? I'm opening a debate. SDP advocates' club, Mrs. Nada Cavlovic, Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. Well, at the very beginning, I would like to say that the SDP's Club of Representatives will support the adoption of the Act on the implementation of the budget implementation. I also believe that it is good to pass this whole new law, meaning that the provisions regulated by this law are not incorporated into the Implementing Law, i.e. in the Law on Payments. However, before I comment on the provisions of this new law, I would have gone back a little bit to the past, and I would have said that we had a similar system here today about five, six years ago. So, the execution of money was spent by the FINA. It was an institution where executive solutions came in. I think that job was done very well, but then overnight something else happened. This job was given to business banks, and that's when I got the problems. Business banks that have otherwise made large in Croatia for 10 years... Profits, that's a lot of talk in the Croatian Parliament, so they got the job of pay traffic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what happened behind that? We can say that, above all, the work they did was not effective or good, and that is exactly why this law is being passed today. The problem is because business entities, legal and physical persons, had to open up means so-called. the main account or home account, and at the same time they could have had accounts in other business banks that they had. And a business bank where there was a main account, when it received a solution to the execution or enforcement, in the event that there was no money on that account, it did not send these executive solutions to other banks at all or in a large number of cases, and that was their obligation. Secondly, the fees charged by the commercial banks meant for the business of business entities, legal and physical persons, were very different, they differed, but they were extremely high, they were far greater than those of the commissions that FINA once had. And thirdly, just as I would like to say it is that the commercial banks did not have any evidence of the order of collection of their business entities, so it happened that some of the claims that came may later have come into some sort of charge priority before those that should have come far earlier. So the whole system that was set up was not good, it proved inefficient and I can only conclude that there was no reason at all to abolish the system to mean ban, to implement the cash execution through the FINA as it used to be. But apparently someone's interests were protected in some way, and these were primarily the interests of banks that, apart from their extra profits, were realised through credit payments and large interest rates that they have here in Croatia today, they still got the meaning of payment services. As far as this law is concerned, we must say that it is good that in this new system it means the implementation of money by the Financial Agency, means one institution and that all legal persons and all legal entities that have executive documents deliver it to that Financial Agency. So the same thing that matters, the Agency also accounts for the tight interest established on the basis of payment and gives orders to banks in which it has its own funds. A little quiet, please. Furthermore, we see that it is clear that the Financial Agency is counting interest in a unique way, that's what I said. It is important that the new law, apart from the unique way of implementing the exercise, whether it is business entities, means legal or natural persons or citizens, also allows for the blocking or execution of money from all kuna and foreign foreign exchange accounts and the money that the contractor has on the basis of the savings roles and the money allocated after the end of the contract, with the payment of interest paid by the basis of the contract on the deposits being automatically withdrawn and therefore may be charged to certain claims made by the performer. It is also important to establish a register of the payment order, as a single database will certainly help to establish a more effective implementation of the procedure. And what is extremely important is that the amount and type of compensation under Article 21(4) of the Law is prescribed by the Ministry of Finance, which means that these fees will no longer be able to be different, and I also believe that these fees will not be as high as they have been so far. The fact is that Article 14(2) of the Law provides that a contractor, a business entity, is not to make an accounting payment if there is a mark in the single account register, means that the account has been blocked and there is no funds. Here, above all, is thought of implementation means cesium, agnition and compensation. However, it is also true that the law also prescribes criminal penalties for those offences. But a large number of business entities, meaning legal and natural persons and craftsmen, continue to carry out cesiums, continue to carry out compensations, and thus bypasses actually paying through a jury account and thereby avoids paying their obligations to the state, or to other creditors. It is only later that it means in the supervision procedure when it comes to the business entity, but only then can it be established in that procedure that the business entity or the craftsman has committed such activities and after that is the meaning of the supervision carried out can be penalised. But then there's the question, or there's a problem if there's a statute of limitations in that case, it means there's absolutely nothing to do. Also, in the end I would like to say that although it is not, it does not belong to this law, but in any case it is related to this, the big problem is that our regulations allow legal entities, or above all, to think here about legal persons, can mean to set up businesses, to make large tax debts, debts to the state, as well as to suppliers. After that, it'll be a prison company. So all these debts remain because it simply cannot be paid out of the company's assets for the reason that the company has a share capital of 20,000 kuna and can only have one I don't know how to write a desk and some kind of machine and after that they can open up new businesses infinitely and it means creating new debts. I must remind myself that during the coalition government, a regulation was passed that no private company could be opened before the Commercial Court, or the Tax Administration, issued a confirmation that the taxpayer, or that person, had not settled his obligation to the State. That's exactly why I'm pleading here for the representatives of the Ministry of Finance. I think it belongs to this topic and it really is very important that as soon as possible, so it is also possible to pass a law that would make it impossible for taxpayers to avoid payment, meaning tax obligations. First of all, I am referring to tax obligations towards the state, but also to the believers, and in some ways it means preventing many large companies from creating tax debts indefinitely and never responding to it. And there's something else I'd like to mention, what's regulated means by the general tax law where craftsmen, or craftsmen of a natural person, find themselves far more unfavourable than legal persons, because a crafter means for his tax debts he has to guarantee his entire assets and not only his property but even his spouse's property because they're like in the first line. While here, the legal person I say has a share capital of 20,000 kuna and can have some small inventory, and that is the property he has at his disposal, and at the end of the day all those debts he has made cannot be charged. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56157	Thank you. It's the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative of Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56158	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with your associates. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support adoption, support adoption, support the proposal for a law implementing the law on money with a final draft of the law, and not only for perhaps seemingly technical reasons, but also for the entry into force of the Law on Payments in 1.1.2011, this substance will no longer be covered by this law, which is now covered by the harmonisation of this area of regulation in this area with the European acquis and the European Union Directive, which does not consider the transaction as a payment service. It was therefore necessary to regulate this substance by other regulation. According to her content, she could also be in the Law on Executive Law. So, there would be a place for her because it's about the end of one of the funds. So here on money, and it could be this performance on movables, real estate, stuff, etc. It was there and we asked that question to the proposer, which is why the law is special. But here's the answer that actually says that by adopting a special law, by adopting a special law, it allows better control of the implementation which should certainly be in everyone's interest, and also in some way unites this system of performance and payment system because it is ultimately an exercise and is then a particular payment traffic. This law should be supported primarily because of its content and its essentials, the newspaper they bring, which is primarily to enable effective implementation of money, and thus legal certainty and confidence of citizens in the system. In fact, we often talk about the length of administrative and judicial proceedings, and statistics record all these actions that have been completed when a decision of power or judicial power has been taken. But for citizens and business entities, the procedure they have initiated for the exercise of some of their rights for them is over the moment when they hold their right or the benefit they need to gain in the right hand. So when the commission was carried out and if such a solution or judgment was not voluntarily carried out, they were forced to do so. We are day-to-day witnesses of frustration of citizens who have the rightful verdict or the rightful solution, but unfortunately they do not have what they are ordered to do, and very often see the debtors as you boast, as they have their means, property and money, and the believers cannot reach them. That is why this law is extremely welcome because it introduces institutions that allow the united, united and unified implementation of the exercise on the total money of citizens and legal persons, i.e. business entities. So far, this public authority has been transferred to private legal entities, i.e. banks. These banks, this enforcement by banks was almost impossible to control, there were and, precisely because of this lack of control, there were possibilities of abuse. Of course, here we have one transfer of public authority to a private legal entity, a conflict of the interests of banks, their private interests in protecting, or attracting their clients, and, on the other hand, the public interest that they bring their public, public authority and exercise as effectively and efficiently as possible. It was a question now why it used to be, so it wasn't at the banks, and then why it was transferred to the banks. I would say that, that this initiative was considered to be the transfer of public powers to private legal entities, or even that state decentralisation towards private, promoted as a European trend, so we have also been informed that European practice is relative to this exercise, so we have received information that practice among the European Union countries is very diverse, so there is no unique legal gain. I think that this law allows for effective enforcement, first of all because it will have a unique place to be delivered to all, all the basis for payment, first of all, a uniform application of the rules will be ensured, the single price of the proceedings will be established, let us not forget that so far the banks have determined it on their own, so there were no regulators in that sense, although it is public, transferred to public authority, now it will be the Minister of Finance that determines it by the rules and will know in advance how much the conduct of this procedure costs. There will be a unique way of calculating interest. In a unique way, the executives will be informed, i.e. participants in the performance, and will be the most important one, there will be a unique database of open accounts and other money that the business entity, i.e. the natural person, has in banks, savings banks, housing savings and credit unions. This obvious... The basis for payment is extremely important because the moment of submission of the basis for payment will be recorded, therefore similar to that in land books, because it does not matter who is first in line for payment. [[You don't understand.]] So now in one place you'll know exactly what day, hour and minute someone filed such a, that submission, and now that there were accounts in various banks, that the banks were receiving them, that they weren't known how and how they registered them, the creditors often couldn't get the data because it was a famous banking secret, so they couldn't get the data where the debtor had an open account at all. If he accidentally made a mistake in a single account number or something mislabelled the execution, it was returned to the beginning. Now this law avoids it all. Therefore, the Agency shall keep an eyewitness, the Agency shall keep a register and accounts, so that the current transaction accounts, but shall also be managed by the eyewitness of these, the obvious cash-based funds on which it performs, so that when it receives the order for the execution, the execution is carried out on all accounts of which a business entity or citizen and not only as I have said in the transaction accounts, but also on the cash-to-hand assets, hence the deposit or an armed role in savings, but the agency will also have data on housing savings and savings, therefore outside the banks in the savings cooperatives, on which they will not perform and the performance, but will be able to provide information that a certain debtor and on these persons has some funds, and will then be able to ask for the performance of those funds. So certainly this law should be supported as another law that strengthens the exercise. As you know, and I've already said that, I'm a powerful act is not enough unless it ensures forced execution. In the last few years, the executive law has repeatedly changed on the path of doing what is more effective, so we will have changes and additions to the Executive Law here very soon, but also the introduction of a complete newspaper in Croatia, which is a public executive service, and all in order and on the trail of more efficient implementation. Therefore, here we support the adoption of this law as the introduction of a single order in paying the debtor's debt obligations, and disabling the obligation to pay the debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56159	Thank you. It's next to the HNS Club, HSU, the distinguished representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56160	Thank you. Your Honor, Vice President, Ms. Proposer's honors. At the very beginning, I will say that MPs and representatives of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired Party will support this law. The proposed law introduces a unique way of implementing the implementation of the implementation of the financial means of the perpetrators, whether he is a business entity, or a citizen, thus eliminating the failures of the existing system as a consequence of the inequality of the rules governing that area. The most important news is that the performance will be carried out on money in all accounts and on the money provided according to the personal identification number of the perpetrators without its consent. The financial agency, the Croatian National Bank and the Bank shall implement the implementation of the budget under this Act. The implementation of the implementing act, unless otherwise prescribed, shall be subject to the applicable laws governing the executive, customs and tax procedure. As I have already mentioned the implementation of the money agency, i.e. the Croatian National Bank and the Bank in a way that the managers and the competent authorities provide payment grounds to the Agency. The Agency shall, in a unique manner, account for the tight interest established in the basis of the payment, and shall give orders for the execution of banks in which the executioner has the funds. The Agency shall keep an eyewitness, order of payment bases and shall operationally manage the single account register of business entities. This proposal introduces a single procedure, methodology and order of execution of payment bases with a view to increasing the effectiveness of the exercise of legal certainty and the functioning of the legal system in the Republic of Croatia. The proposal further mentions and states that the Minister of Finance, under this Act, will adopt sublegal acts which will provide for more detailed procedures, deadlines, type and level of compensation, etc. Now, for all these reasons like I said, the HNS and HSU Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56161	Thank you. And on behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Stanko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56162	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the promoters, colleagues and fellow MPs. The adoption of this Act is necessary in order to introduce a single procedure, a single methodology and order in order to implement payments in order to increase legal certainty and the functioning of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. In view of the need for a uniform and effective implementation of the implementing act, the financial resources of the perpetrators whether it is a business entity or a citizen, it is necessary to adopt this Act. This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 2011 on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Since the Directive harmonized with the Law on Payments does not regulate activities which are not considered payment services, neither is the Act prescribed, payment transactions set out on the basis of a decision on performance and others on the legal basis of equalised documents should be regulated by this law. The novelty established by the law is that the cash implementation is carried out by the Financial Agency by providing payment grounds to the Agency by the executives and the competent authorities. The Agency shall, in a unique manner, account for the tight interest rates and shall give orders for the execution of banks in which the executioner has the funds. Today, the Agency is operating on a single account register of business entities, and under this Act, it will maintain a unique account register covering the accounts of citizens and data on man-made financial assets, as well as savings deposits, housing savings and deposits in the European Union. The Agency is obliged to store the payment base as an executive and has only one account and has unexecuted payment grounds in that account and the bank closes that account on the basis of the contracted relationship. Where an perpetrator opens a new account under the same personal identification number, the Agency shall, on the basis of data from a single account, enter the payment bases in the register in accordance with the order entered before storage. This provision shall apply accordingly when the decision to open the procedure is repealed. In the event of a status change, the Agency will, on the basis of data from the single account, register the unexecuted payment base on the account of the legal consignor. The paper of this Act is that, in addition to money from all kuna and foreign exchange accounts, the cash held by the executioner on the basis of savings deposits, and the cash allocated after the end of the contract of the tool. The advantage of the single way, the implementation of the budget implementation is multiple because the application of the rules will be uniform, the basis for payment will be delivered in one place. The price of the procedure will be unique as well as the calculation of tight interest reporting of participants in the case. A unique open account database and other money that business entities and citizens have in banks savings banks, housing savings and credit unions set up by this law will greatly help to establish more effective implementation of the operation, and there is the possibility of its use in other procedures, for example in the desert procedure. In addition to other aspects of enhanced efficiency and simplification of the process, this law opens up the possibility of faster collection and reduction of the costs of the cash implementation process through the delivery of data to one place the single price of the procedure. For the operations of banks, the advantages are reflected in the release of proceedings which do not fall within the scope of banking transactions in favour of banking and payment transactions. Relieving of the risk of carrying out the performance and consequently reducing costs. Following everything presented, the Croatian Peasant Party Club supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56163	Thank you. And individual debates have one application, Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56164	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposed Act on the implementation of the budget implementation is the product of enforcement activities in the reform of the judiciary and within the framework of the Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This law introduces a new system of implementation of the budget implementation which I would say is simpler and more effective since it is implemented through one institution, a financial agency, unlike the current ones in which the accounts are conducted by a series of banks. Which means that the executives and the competent authorities are delivering payment bases to one place in the agency instead of in multiple banks. This eliminates the failures of an existing enforcement system in the accounts of different banks resulting from the inequality of the rules governing this area and leading to the bank’s different conducts. In the current system of implementation, each bank shall keep its own register of the order of the performance solution, while in the new system the Agency will keep a single eyewitness on the order of receipts of the basis for payment and the state of execution by an individual perpetrator, which will enable the single reporting of participants in the performance. The importance of the existence of such a new single account register is reflected in the fact that the Court and other competent authorities in the Agency will be able to obtain data on the existence of cash from the OIB. Therefore, it is expected that the single account register will greatly help to establish a more effective implementation of the performance with the possibility of its use in other procedures. The proposed law also characterises the new enforcement system. The ability to charge faster than the current system where each bank charges a different amount of compensation for the execution of the payment base. It is pointed out that such a unique and proposed way of carrying out the cash implementation provides participants with a number of benefits in the system such as uniform application of the rules, delivery of the basis for payment in one place, a single and cheaper price of the procedure, a single calculation of tight interest, a uniform reporting of participants in the performance, a single open account database and other cash assets held by business entities and citizens in savings banks, residential savings and credit unions. For this reason, given that the proposed law introduces a single procedure for methodologies and order in order to implement payment grounds in order to increase legal certainty and the functioning of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, I support the adoption of the Law on the implementation of the law on money implementation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56165	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56166	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on the implementation of the budget implementation. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 573, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the law on the implementation of the budget implementation. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by the majority of 92 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56167	Now I suggest that point 16. The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Police, civil protection and civil servants and subsistence officers in peace operations and other activities abroad, let us unite the emergency procedure with point 20 of the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the United Nations in connection with the contribution of the observer forces of the United Nations to the separation of UNDOF, an emergency procedure. Does anyone object to that merger?As far as I can tell. So I think we've united those two points, and now we're going to discuss them together. So, - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the police, civil protection and civil servants and subsistence officers in peace operations and other activities abroad, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 575 and - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the United Nations in connection with the contribution of the observer forces of the United Nations to the separation (UNDOF), emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 579 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The businessman's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives to this law 575. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the proposals? Yeah. Honorable Željko Gorsic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56168	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. Nice to meet you. The amended amendments and amendments to the laws are in line with the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed law regulates the role of the Croatian Parliament of the President of the Republic, the Croatian Government of the Republic of Croatia and other state bodies on the transition and operation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia across the borders of the Republic of Croatia and their participation in peacekeeping operations and other activities abroad as well as the participation of police and civil protection, as well as of civil servants and subsistence in peace operations and other activities abroad. Members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia may cross its borders or act beyond its borders on the basis of a decision of the Croatian Parliament proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the previous consent of the President of the Republic under certain conditions. The established Constitution of the Republic of Croatia can also decide without the prior consent of the President of the Republic of Croatia. These decisions, which are within the competence of the Croatian Parliament, shall be taken by the Croatian Parliament at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the prior consent of the President of the Republic by the majority of the votes of all MPs. And if the President of the Republic of Croatia cancels the consent of the Croatian Parliament of Decisions, it shall take two-thirds of the votes of all MPs. The proposed law prescribes that members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia may cross the borders of the Republic of Croatia in order to exercise and train within international organisations to which the Republic of Croatia has joined or accessed them on the basis of international contracts and to provide humanitarian assistance. On the basis of a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the prior consent of the President of the Republic. Members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia abroad to participate in peacekeeping operations, exercises and training, and to provide humanitarian assistance on the basis of decisions by the competent authorities, the President of the Republic as Chief Commander of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed amendments to the law also nomotechnically harmonize the expression of certain provisions and thus improve the text of the law. As the Committee on Legislatives had two amendments to this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepted both amendments. The next Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Consent between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the United Nations in connection with the contribution of the observer forces of the United Nations to the separation, with the final proposal of the law, our Armed Forces, together with their basic tasks to protect the territorial sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Croatia, are also aimed at achieving the proper state of the ability to carry out adopted missions and tasks. By participating in the operations and missions of NATO and the United Nations and in UN peacekeeping missions, the Republic of Croatia actively contributes to international peace, stability and security. So far experience from the engagement of Croatian Armed Forces in peacekeeping operations and missions further confirms that they are capable of taking on highly demanding tasks. The Republic of Croatia and its Armed Forces are today participating in 7 UN peacekeeping missions with 124 members and members, a 20-member KFOR peacekeeping operation in Kosovo, with 2 members of the EU Operation Somalia Atalanta and with the highest number in the ISAF peacekeeping operation in Afghanistan with 292 members and members. In a UN peacekeeping mission at the Golan High Command UNDOF, our Armed Forces are involved with a unit the size of a company. In order to define the position of our armed forces in the UNDOF, there was a need for a more detailed regulation of the legal position and the rights and obligations of the Armed Forces through the conclusion of the International Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the United Nations. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on 7 December 2009, in New York, the memorandum was signed by our Permanent Representative to the UN and is intended to establish administrative, logistic and financial deadlines and conditions for managing staff, equipment and services provided by the Government in support of UNDOF. The Memorandum regulates issues related to participation in the mission and legal position, conditions for carrying out the mission in the task, discipline, investigation, demand and dispute resolution. The memorandum has been applied temporarily since 14 May 2008, and will take effect on the date on which the UN receives notice from our Government of the completion of the internal legal procedures provided for by our legislation for its entry into force. That would be a brief explanation of these two laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56169	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. All right. Then I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, respected representative Ante Kotromanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56170	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues from the Department of Defense, fellow MPs and MPs. Here's just a few words about these two bill proposals. As you've heard, we've had it, we've passed the Defence Committee, and there's been no specific problems. We finished the debate very quickly and of course we will support each other's law, and I will now say a few words about each other. The aim of amending and supplementing the first law, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Participation of Members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the Police, Civil Protection and State Officers and Deputys in Peace Operations and Other Activities abroad, with the final proposal of the Law, is to amend and supplement the law in question to comply with the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is very important and necessary as we adopted a new Constitution several weeks ago and we had to adopt certain provisions of law concerning the Ministry of Defence, if they are redefined the role and conduct of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, and that nomoteric offices are to impose certain provisions of the law in question. After the entry into force of the North Atlantic Treaty, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are obliged to participate in collective defence. The attack on any NATO member state is considered an attack on the Republic of Croatia, and in such a case, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are obliged to protect the sovereignty and independence of the attacked state. It is also our obligation to contribute to the peace and stability in the world and in the region that we are doing through, as we have heard from the secretary of state, through many UN missions and also a mission where we are participating in NATO's mission to Afghanistan in a very successful and quality way, what our forces are doing. Accordingly, the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia defined the role of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia through four basic missions and tasks, which were defined by the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, and the amendments to the Constitution required harmonisation of the provisions of the law in question with the Constitution. The subject-matter of the bill shall be governed by the way in which members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia may cross borders or borders and act beyond its borders on the basis of a decision of the Parliament, the basis of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the decision to refer members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to abroad shall be taken by the President of the Republic as the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces. Article 7 regulates the way decisions are taken on the participation of members of the Police and Civil Protection, as well as civil servants and deputies in peace operations and other activities. And of course, this is all properly done and it needs... with the Constitution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what I want to say more and mention here, is that I am most concerned at this point by the Ministry of Defence's budget which is, of course, as everything else is getting thinner and thinner and the question is what will happen after the new budget rebalance that has been announced. Is it going to be because I think some things simply don't have the price, the safety of people, the lives of people, the lives of our soldiers that we refer to on missions, and some are extremely dangerous, they can't be measured in kunas and I appeal to the Ministry of Defense and the government. We have guaranteed international obligations, we have an agreement that we now have about 17 thousand soldiers and it would be very harmful and devastating now to cut budgets, although we have reduced over a billion kunas in a way that only cuts it off, and that these people, these same amount of people consume the same resources, and that's one big and serious problem right now, and I fully support the Ministry of Defence. And I think we should fight now if there's a budget rebalance that no swear can be cut absolutely because we have said international commitments and we have people who are alive, who have to eat, drink, receive wages. There are 17,000 of them, and that's one big problem, and you don't just have to look at it through some special means. As far as this proposal is concerned, I would finally like to say that the provision of Article 4a of the bill is in line with Article 3(9) of the Constitution, which is complemented by the SDP proposal that a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in military exercises and training abroad within international organisations which the Republic of Croatia has joined or accessed on the basis of international contracts and in order to provide humanitarian assistance is made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the prior consent of the President of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, as it comes to the harmonisation of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the police, civil protection, and of civil servants and deputies in peace operations and other activities abroad, the SDP club will support the adoption of the proposed law. And a few more words on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the United Nations in connection with the contribution, the means of the observer forces of the United Nations to separate known as UNDOF with the final proposal of the law. As you know, we have the equivalent of one hour of people stationed at the Golan High. It's a mission that's very successful too. We have regular rotations that are also very successful and quality and down so far we haven't had much, but no problems at all. On the contrary, and what I know, and there are colleagues from the Ministry of Defense. Generally, if not every time we receive commendation for the work of officers, officers and soldiers in that area, even though it is not a particularly dangerous mission. Down from the '60s, we haven't fired a single bullet, and perhaps in due course we can think about that when we sort out the reserve, we have about 2,000 people on the reserve, that if we need them differently, in another space to keep a reservation for such tasks that are not particularly dangerous, and we can hire our reserve officers, officers, soldiers, and give them the opportunity to make more and earn, and in this way we take care and care of the people who are developed. In 2007, the Republic of Croatia was offered to direct a unit of size within the observation forces for separation to the United Nations peacekeeping mission at the Golan High School. It's mostly already known to everyone. Given the type and scope of the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the UNDOF peacekeeping mission, the need for detailed regulation of the legal position and the rights and obligations of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the bilateral international contract between the Republic of Croatia and the United Nations has become necessary. It's done now. The memorandum addresses a number of issues related to the legal situation, and the smooth functioning of the tasks of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of the UNDOF, which are legal positions as already said by the secretary, legal position of staff, supply of equipment and services. That's very important. The command line is most important in this context, discipline, investigation, jurisdiction, protection of qualified data, financial aspect of participation and establishment of UN standards of conduct for personnel provided by the Republic of Croatia. Also, the SDP club will support the proposal for a Memorandum Confirmation Act and I say it is a technical issue and we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56171	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56172	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here are a few words on the first proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the police and civil protection, as well as civil servants and deputies in peace operations and other activities abroad. From all that is said and everything that is written in the bill, it is more than obvious that the structure and hierarchy of the decision-making system in the Republic of Croatia meets the highest democratic standards in this area. It's the basic and most important finding. In accordance with these facts, allow me a few comments. These amendments and additions to the laws shall bring the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in peace operations and other activities abroad in line with the provisions of Article 7. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the section relating to the decision-making of the Croatian Parliament on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in peace operations and other activities abroad. That amendment stipulates that members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia may cross its borders or act beyond its borders on the basis of a decision of the Croatian Parliament proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the prior consent of the President of the Republic of Croatia, but under certain conditions established by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament may also make a decision without prior consent of the President of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, Article 2 provides that members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia may cross the borders of the Republic of Croatia in order to exercise and train within international organisations to which the Republic of Croatia has joined or accessed them on the basis of international contracts and to provide humanitarian assistance on the basis of a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the prior consent of the President of the Republic of Croatia. Perhaps a few other comments related to Article 5. Article 5 states that the decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia abroad this time to provide humanitarian assistance shall be taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs and with the prior consent of the President of the Republic of Croatia of the Armed Forces abroad to provide humanitarian assistance on the basis of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall be referred to by the President of the Republic as the Supreme Commander. And here, compared to all the other procedures in other countries, really one brief comment and a summary that I said at the beginning of the highest democratic standards. A few words also on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the United Nations in connection with the contribution of the observer forces of the United Nations to the separation with the final draft of the law. During 2007, the Republic of Croatia was offered the possibility to direct a unit-sized unit of the Austrian military within the supervisory forces for separation into the United Nations' peacekeeping mission at Golan. This was the first reference to a United Nations peacekeeping mission of the military force of the pedestrian company. Furthermore, taking into account the type and scope of the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in this peacekeeping mission, there was the need to further regulate the legal position, and the rights and obligations of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia by concluding a bilateral international contract between the Republic of Croatia and the United Nations. On the basis of a decision to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the United Nations in connection with the contribution, the United Nations observer forces signed a permanent representative of the Republic of Croatia with the United Nations on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 7 December 2009. Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the United Nations in connection with the contribution, the means of the observer forces of the United Nations to separate the Republic of Croatia will bring an end to the legislation of the Republic of Croatia prescribed a procedure for the entry into force of the memorandum. on all other details, I think it makes no sense to speak, and for this reason, the HDZ Club will support the confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the United Nations in connection with the contribution of the United Nations supervisory forces to the separation, signed in New York on 7 December 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56173	Thank you. Very good. Now it is the turn of the HSS club, distinguished representative Stanko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56174	Honorable Vice President, distinguished State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HSS welcomes the Commissioner's intensification to bring the provisions of this law in line with the amendments to Article 7. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is a redefined role and actions of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, whose changes are largely the result of integration processes related to NATO and the European Union, in accordance with international agreements concluded and commitments undertaken. Since the provisions of the proposed text, in addition to the Armed Forces, are covered by police, civil protection and civil servants and subsistences, and their participation in peacekeeping operations and other activities abroad, we do not see a single open question that should be discussed here in particular. We would also like to highlight the fact that, according to the knowledge of HSS in the first half of this year, the President of the Republic of Croatia as commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has brought the concept of supporting the Republic of Croatia to partner countries, as well as the plan to offer infrastructure facilities to the Armed Forces of other countries in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Other necessary documents stemming from commitments made under international defence organisations to which the Republic of Croatia has joined or accessed on the basis of international contracts, such as catalogue of skills for the Republic of Croatia. This all says that the competent national authorities are constantly working on documents detailing support, policy, legal conditions or financial elements, which are necessary for insurance in the NATO Alliance, the European Union or the United Nations, led peace operations and other activities abroad, or members of international partners when they are located in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, when they are located on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, are conducting certain operations or are passing through or transiting. A few sentences related to the memo. We would like to point out that by adopting the proposed law, i.e. by confirming this proposed memorandum, the Republic of Croatia as a full member of the United Nations will create another one in a series of frameworks for implementing the standardised legal gains of the United Nations. In this way, it will also create a legal framework for interoperability with the United Nations, in areas covered by the said memorandum. The Republic of Croatia, as a member of the United Nations, proves by confirming this memorandum that it remains a reliable partner on the international agenda. The text of the memorandum in question was written without the will and the imposition of certain interests by any party, and we consider it a formal legal framework for cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the United Nations on the basis of which interests and other intended issues will develop and coordinate, i.e. Those related to the legal position and the smooth performance of the task of members of the Armed Forces as part of the United Nations mission at the Golan High. We hope that the government will carry out all necessary activities from the memorandum with its bodies in due time, with international partners, with a view to effective implementation of the obligation expected by the Republic of Croatia. We also hope that the adoption of this law will facilitate the work of our competent institutions, with international partners from the United Nations. And at the end of our debate, we can only conclude that this way the Republic of Croatia is making a new positive step towards the security of defence matter, which exceeds the violent frameworks, and we hope that this will make it easier for our institutions to work with international partners involved in joint activities. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will support the proposed laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56175	And finally by the clubs of HNS, HSU, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56176	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club, HSU will also support these amendments and additions to the Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the police, civil protection, as well as civil servants and deputies in peace operations and other activities abroad. We will also support the ratification of this memo on our benches. And let me briefly say that we think it's correct that the approval and decision-making process for the participation of our armed forces abroad is divided into three groups, into three categories. I would say in a regular procedure, in order to send our soldiers on a peacekeeping mission, we need the prior consent of the President of the Republic, we need a proposal from the Government, we need the consent of the Croatian Parliament. So it's that whole or regular procedure. If our Armed Forces are sent outside the borders of our country, to participate in some military exercise, or training, or in providing humanitarian assistance, then the procedure is much simpler, then it is not necessary to participate in our parliamentary representatives, but the Government, with the prior consent of the President of the Republic, is doing the job. There is also a third option, where members of the police, civil protection or civil servants, i.e. seconded officers, are sent to peacekeeping operations, then the procedure is simplest, then the government independently does the job, with the agreement of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, so neither the President of the Republic nor the Croatian Parliament then participates in the procedure. There is as the Secretary of State has said and an exception, when the President of the Republic would or may not, for certain reasons, give prior consent to refer our Armed Forces to abroad, then the Croatian Parliament may refer the Armed Forces to it, but provided that the two-thirds majority in this House is secured. As for the memos with the United Nations in Golan, we will also support the ratification of the Memorandum, however, we are warning colleagues and colleagues for the second or third time, especially asking the representatives of the Government, you know that we have predicted that for the following year we will allocate more than 400 million kuna for peace missions for an approximately equal number of soldiers, which means that each soldier costs us just a little less than a million kuna a year, that's big money. In the years of the big crisis, in the years of the financial crisis, the recession, we save at every step, we save at 200, 300, 500 thousand kuna on individual laws that we change, and here we see that we accept very expensive missions. The other day, NATO leaders in Zagreb, the prime minister promised to send 20 more soldiers to Afghanistan. That's 20 million kuna. Yesterday we discussed scientific projects on the foundation, and 20 million just for those 20 soldiers that is 10% of the budget of Minister Fuchs for all scientific projects in the Republic of Croatia. We're doing a little comparatively, no one will blame us in either the UN or NATO if we really ask that, in accordance with our economic capabilities, clear support for these missions be somewhat less than ever. And when the situation is clear, we're not against going back to the same numbers. But here, these are our recommendations, these are requests to be truly rational and correct to our tax bonds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56177	Thank you. And we have one individual application from the distinguished representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56178	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Two sentences just as far as the content of one of these two laws is concerned, about two points of the agenda we're discussing. Therefore, it is good that this Law introduces a proposal or agreement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs so that our participation in peacekeeping missions will be given an external political framework that they will be a little more elaborate and that we will know what the interest of the Republic of Croatia in participating in peacekeeping missions is, in my opinion, taking part in a large number of peacekeeping missions, though with a small number of soldiers. What's actually more interesting in this bill is an explanation. The reason is that this Law is being amended to bring it into line with the new Constitution, that is, the amendments to the Constitution that we have adopted. What's more interesting is that we've actually changed this new law even though we've already changed it once. It seems to me that it was two days after we changed the Constitution, we applied new provisions without the law, so that we sent a ship of the Croatian Navy to Italy or to follow our Neretva ship that rowed across the Adriatic, hence, despite the fact that the initiative came before the change of the Constitution we applied new constitutional provisions. And I would like to associate that with some other two current topics that are being led, which is about the application of old or new, old or new constitutional provisions, it is no doubt about the union referendum and the choice of Constitutional Judges. In this context, I will support these amendments to the Law, and I will support that if there is no amendment to the Law and it is evident from the new constitutional provisions that can be applied as we have done with these provisions of the laws that are now being amended, when we have sent a warship outside territorial waters, we have directly applied the new Constitution, it is good to call on the rest of the Ministry and the other government offices and other bodies of the executive authorities to send us proposals of the Law that will comply with the new constitution, so that the President of the Constitutional Court would no longer go out in the media about what needs to be applied and what not.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56179	Thank you. Tak-tak, it's not really a theme around here, it's not God-knows-what. I am closing the debate and we will vote when the necessary conditions are met. Thank you. Tak-tak, it's not really a theme around here, it's not God-knows-what. I am closing the debate and we will vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56181	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Participation of Members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the Police, Civil Protection, as well as civil servants and deputies in peace operations and other activities abroad, was an emergency procedure. P.Z. No. In 575, the applicant of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative adopted amendments to the Committees, and they are not voted on because they become an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the participation of members, etc. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by the majority of the vote 91 votes for, 4 abstentions and 1 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56197	And now I suggest, may I have your attention, point 17. Proposal for a law on the State Judgment Council, first reading, P.Z. Number 576, point 18. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Court Act first reading, P.Z. Number 577, and point 23. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorneyship, first reading, P.Z. Number 582, to unite. That's the initiative of the Ministry. And Leko now you said yes, now it's not going well. The proposal is to unite those three points to discuss them together. Do you agree? We agree. Okay, thank you very much. So we move on to - Proposed law on the State Judgment Council, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 576 - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 577 - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorneyship, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 582 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the materials by mail. In the case of the adoption of these laws, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply to Articles 144 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Tatiana Vučetic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56198	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Law on the State Judicial Council was passed in 1993 and since then, the Croatian Parliament has adopted 7 amendments and additions to this Act, so it was necessary to approach the draft new Law on the State Judicial Council. On 18 June 2010, the Croatian Parliament adopted amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, these amendments significantly amended the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which are governed by the judicial authority and in particular amended Article 123. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which regulates the State Judiciary Council as an independent and independent body which ensures the independence and independence of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia. A significant change is that the State Judicial Council is no longer appointed by the Croatian Parliament, but the way members of the State Judicial Council are elected and the way it works is governed by a special law, i.e. the Law on the State Judicial Council. The Constitution has also been amended in the section relating to the composition of members of the State Judicial Council and so that the State Judicial Council makes up 7 judges, 2 university professors of legal science and 2 representatives of the Croatian Parliament and one of the lines of opposition. Since the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia have been extended and the part-round of the State Judicial Council which now decides on the appointment, promotion, transfer and resolution of judges and presidents of the Court of Justice as an independent and independent body of its decision are made in an impartial manner and on the basis of the criteria prescribed by this law. The proposal for a Law on the State Judicial Council shall regulate the procedures and conditions for the selection of members and presidents of the State Judicial Council and the termination of their duties, the procedures and conditions for their appointment, transfer and resolution of judges, the procedure for determining their strict responsibility and the procedure for the appointment and resolution of the President of the Court. This bill stipulates that members of the State Judicial Council of the Court of Justice are three judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, 2 judges of the County Court, 1 judge of the Municipal Court and 1 judge of specialised courts. Since the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia requires that the choice of members of the State Judicial Council be governed by law. This proposal also prescribed the selection procedure of members and presidents of the State Judicial Council and the termination of their duties. The election of members of the National Judicial Council of the Judges shall be carried out by the Committee for the selection of members of that Council as well as by the Election Committee. Members of the Board of University Professors of Legal Sciences are elected by all professors of the Faculty of Law in the Republic of Croatia, and the Croatian Parliament appoints two members from the ranks of its representatives, one of whom is from the ranks of opposition. This draft law stipulates that, during the conduct of the duties of members of the council, judges cannot be appointed to judicial duty in a court of higher degree. Since the appointment and resolution of the President of the Courts has been made as a newspaper in the district of the State Judicial Council, the Law on Courts no longer regulates these issues. Under the bill, the justice minister no longer appoints the presidents of the courts, but rather the court president's appointment and resolution procedure is in the jurisdiction of the State Judiciary Council. The State Judicial Council shall appoint and resolve the President of the Court in the light of the opinions of the relevant Judicial Council of the President directly of the High Court and of the Minister of Justice at the time of 4 years, after which he may be re-elected. The draft law specifically provides for a strict procedure against judges and determines the strictness of acts as well as the strict penalties that can be imposed on the judge. It shall also determine the reasons when the judge may be away from duty as well as the reasons for the termination of the court's duties. The provisions on the judge's strict responsibility have not been amended in relation to the current Law on the State Judicial Council. In particular, this draft law provides that judges appointed under current rules remain in office for 5 years and all proceedings pending before the State Judicial Council will continue and implement the law which was in force until the entry into force of this law and the procedures for the appointment of the President of the Courts under the rules which were in force until the entry into force of this law. Given the change in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the role of the State Judicial Council, which as an independent and independent body ensures the independence and independence of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia, it was necessary to access the amendments to the Law on Courts, as well as the Law on the State Judicial Council. Under the current Law on Courts, the conditions for the appointment and resolution of judges as well as the President of courts were prescribed and contained in this law. As the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia established the part of the State Judicial Council, it is necessary, in the jurisdiction of the State Judicial Council, to appoint and resolve judges and presidents of those provisions of the Law on Courts which governed these matters, to exclude them from this law and to regulate the Law on the State Judicial Council. Therefore, the Law on Courts is now primarily governed by the establishment, division and actual jurisdiction of courts, the internal structure of courts, the internal structure of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, the rights and duties of judges, the appointment of judges of jurors, permanent court experts, interpreters and assessors, as well as the means for the work of courts to protect persons and property of judicial authorities. This proposal for a law of a certain provision of the Law on Courts also complies with the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In particular, the part of the law governing the internal structure of the courts states that in the county and municipal courts, judicial departments are to be established with the handling of criminal offences under the jurisdiction of the USKOK in accordance with the Law on the control of corruption and organised crime and the annual schedule of cases shall be determined by judges and officers for the handling of those cases, as well as the obligations of judges and judicial officers for security verification. Furthermore, as regards the Law on the State's Attorney's Office. The State's Attorney's Office Act was passed in 2009. The reason for the amendment and addition of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office stems from the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and in particular from the amended Article 124. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. According to the amended Article 124. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is no longer elected by the Croatian Parliament, but the election of members of the State-Law Council shall be governed by a special law or by the Law on the State's Attorney's Office. The constitutional changes also removed a provision by which the deputy state attorney was first appointed to 5 years, so the deputies of the state's attorney who first appointed themselves on duty are no longer named for a period of 5 years. This bill regulates the selection of members of the State-Law Council as well as their resolution and procedure for the appointment of state lawyers and deputy state lawyers. The procedure for the appointment of state lawyers or deputies under this law has been regulated on the basis of objective and transparent criteria which eliminate any subjectivism in the decision to appoint. In view of the structure of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, these amendments to the laws of the College of State Attorneys of the Republic of Croatia receive significant tasks which have not yet been or have been partially carried out. The College shall take over all the tasks relating to the running for elections and the resolution of the members of the National Lawyer's Council. Under the current law, matters relating to the appointment of state attorneys who have so far been in charge of the attorney general shall be taken over by the State's Attorney's College. The College is now conducting an election procedure for members of the State-Law Council and is asking the Chief State Lawyer, the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament and the Dean of the Faculty of Law to propose at least three candidates for each member of the Council. The heads of state's attorneys cannot be elected as members of the State's Attorney's Council. Proposed candidates from the ranks of deputy state attorneys must ensure the representation of candidates from the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, county, municipal, state-owned lawyers. With these amendments and additions to the law, the State Attorney's Council shall become an independent and independent body implementing the procedure, the appointment and resolution of the State's attorneys and their deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56199	Thank you. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. Yeah. The Justice Committee, chairman of the committee, respected Anna Lovrin. Here you go. ... Yes, preparations must be made sooner. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Did you check, the report's right? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56200	Maybe I'll misread the butes. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At its 46th session held on 8 July, the Committee on Justice discussed the draft Law on the State Judicial Council, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorneyship and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts as a home working body. In view of the Law on the State Judicial Council, in its opening statement, the president pointed out that the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia since 16 June 2010 have significantly changed the provisions governing the judicial authority. The adoption of a new Law on the State Judicial Council was therefore approached. The proposal regulates the procedures and conditions for the selection of members and presidents of the State Judicial Council and the termination of duties, procedures and conditions for the appointment, promotion, transfer and resolution of judges, the procedure for the establishment and resolution of the President of the Court. The election of members of the Board of Judges shall be carried out by the Committee for the Selection of Council Members and Election Committees. Members of the Council of the University of Legal Sciences professors are elected by all professors of law schools in the Republic of Croatia. Members of the Council of Representatives shall be appointed by the Croatian Parliament. The paper is that the Council's appointment and resolution of the president of the courts are being placed in part-round work. In particular, it is prescribed that judges who have been appointed in time of 5 years remain in office permanently. Namely, the State Judiciary Council will make declarative decisions on this matter. The members of the committee unanimously supported the proposal for a law on the State Judicial Council, which introduces a number of newspapers in the selection of members and presidents of the State Judicial Council, the newspaper in the procedures of the appointment of judges and the strict responsibility of judges, the newspaper in the procedures of the appointment of the President of the Court. The proposal for a law on the State Judicial Council highlights the following comments, proposals and opinions. For the sake of equality with the provisions of the Law on Lawyership, the proposed provisions governing the appointment of judges should be reconsidered, which have so far been subject to the Law on Courts. The following is pointed out on the board. Somehow, it was already in legislative practice to adopt and amend an independent law on state attorneyship which was not in the matter of the Law on Courts, and to the DSV which was not the matter of the Law on Courts, unlike the matter which regulates the State's attorney, where in one law there were provisions on appointing, conditions for appointing for advancement in the career of state lawyers and provisions on the State's Attorney's Council. Therefore, a nomotechnical question has been raised whether the place of matter which determines the conditions for the appointment of judges, the conditions for their progress, the provisions on the strict responsibility of judges, could still be their place in the Law on Courts and thus be equated with the Law on State Attorneyship. And it was also considered to be a facilitation of the constitutional provision that speaks of the State Judicial Council where the Constitution says that a partial provision on the work of the State Judicial Council, the way in which the election of members and presidents of the State Judicial Council will be established by law which may then suggest that it would be one law that regulates everything in relation to the State Judicial Council, and that this remains the matter of the Law on Courts. The more the nomotechnics of the Law on State Attorney's Office are allocated to their heads, the head of the State's Attorney's Council is fully segregated in that law in relation to the conditions, the criteria for appointment, career progress and strict responsibility. So it's not necessary, it's not wrong either, but it's doing some kind of uniformity. Here's what I'm asking the Proposer to think about. The proposed provision that, during the duration of the term of office of the members of the council, judges cannot be appointed to judicial duty in a higher-level court, we consider very good. So far, we have had cases that individual members of the State Judiciary Council during their membership in that body have been appointed to several judicial duties. This really does not need to be done because anyone who decides to join the DSV or the State Attorney's Council may refrain from running for promotion or should not run for office in that body. It is also warned of the provision of Article 19(2) where it is proposed that members of the council be reduced to a judge by 50% on a regular basis by a court basis while a later article determines that members of the State Judiciary Council are entitled to compensation for unreserved wages or wages and rewards. The Committee’s opinion is that this should be reconsidered in the sense that if someone is freed from 50% of regular work obligations, then there should be no additional reward or consideration of the full professionalisation of members of the State Judicial Council or that they do so outside of their regular working hours, but can then not be released half of their obligations. Because then the question arises what about university professors who are members of the same council who are also funded by public funds and who also have their own regular labour obligations. Whether they also reduce their regular labour obligations by 50%, for example, teaching or test obligations, etc. It is also proposed in the transitional and final provisions to regulate the continuation of the work of the appointed State Judicial Council, as done in the provisions of the Law on the State Attorney's Office, and it has been warned that the mandates are being taken into account, because under the current Law on the State Judicial Council of the Authority's mandate, it is not the mandate of the body but is the individual mandate, the term of office of a single member of that body, which means that it does not end the uniform term of office of all but each individual term of office for four years. And this will need to be resolved by these transitional provisions in which and when the State Judicial Council will be elected under this new law and by a new constitutional provision. As regards the proposal, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, members of the Board unanimously supported the draft law. And since the applicable law on courts prescribed the conditions for appointment and resolution should then review the proposed amendments, that those provisions should be regulated as I have already spoken to the Law on the State Judicial Council. In view of the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the State Attorney's Office, the members of the Committee unanimously supported the draft law, but pointed out some remarks, proposals and opinions, thus also proposing to regulate the continuation of the work of the appointed State Attorney's Council, also taking care of these individual mandates. It is also the opinion of the Committee that the proposed provision, whereby the College of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia is to be elected by the members of the State Attorney's Board of Representatives of the Croatian Parliament, should be reviewed. I would say not to question, because this law is proposed that the Parliament, therefore, in relation to the State Judiciary Council, actually every proposer chooses, anyone who has the right to have members there and chooses their members. So, judges, academic community of university professors, and the Croatian Assembly of Representatives. This law suggested that all members of the National Attorney's Council should be elected by the College of State Lawyers, for example, so that the Croatian Parliament would then say that there are two representatives of one of the opposition, that the Croatian Parliament should propose in law at least three members for each place, three candidates for each place, which means that the Croatian Parliament should propose to the College of State Lawyers by three MPs of whom the College of State Attorneys would have read who it wants. I think that's inadmissible. We have depolitized these independent bodies in a way that we have excluded the Croatian Parliament from choosing them. But now it's gone to another extreme, that the College of State's Attorneys will break through between the MPs they would. I think we should even it out in a way that the Croatian Parliament chooses representatives who would be members. And it is also necessary to review the provision under which the State Attorney's Office has so far submitted a report on its work, and then, of course, in the context of this report on criminality, the situation, etc. proposed improvements. The proposed law was now dropped probably on the trail of the debate and in relation to the Supreme Court where it was welcomed with a lot of disfavor by the general session, that the Supreme Court should submit any report to the Croatian Parliament or on the state of justice, i.e. in the judiciary or on its work. It is also likely, on the basis of this proposal for a law, that the State's Attorney's Office would file a report on its work already, that it only submits reports on the state of crime or something, so I would ask the Proposer to examine it as well. I think it is cited as the reason that European Commission experts said that the involvement of politics would be that I am the Croatian Parliament elects its representatives, so the proposal is such that I think it is absolutely out of the question. And here's my proposal to re-evaluate it once more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56201	Thank you. It's the longest report of a committee so far. Don't throw it away! I'm opening a debate. And first of all, it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56202	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, the distinguished secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the fact that it is a united debate under these three laws that I will say at the beginning of my presentation that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports in first reading all three of these proposed laws. In fact, it is the fact that they are based in the first place on those amended constitutional provisions, so the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which came into force on the day of the declaration and of course those institutes which have been developed in certain legal provisions, and they are bound to, I say, the judiciary must be elaborated by special laws and, therefore, they are here today, as three legislative proposals have been announced, which the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community all three of them are of course supporting. What exactly is this about? Therefore, firstly, in the context of an analysis of these rules, it is necessary to analyse the constitutional provisions already mentioned and to stress that Article 123. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, decide independently on the appointment, promotion, relocation, resolution and responsibilities of judges and presidents, and shall take its decisions in an impartial manner on the basis of the criteria laid down in the law. The composition of the State Judicial Council was also amended, so that the Council has 11 members, consisting of seven judges, 2 university professors of legal science and 2 parliamentary representatives of which one parliamentary representative is a representative of the opposition. Perhaps it should be noted that from these constitutional solutions the solution is that they are lawyers, in fact lawyers are no longer members of the State Judiciary Council. As far as the specific legal provisions are concerned, I think we can analyse them through four points that I would like to highlight from that is the first, so the proposal for a Law on the State Judicial Council regulates procedures and conditions for... Articles and presidents of the State Judicial Council and the termination of their duties, procedures and conditions for their appointment, promotion, transfer and resolution of judges, the procedure for determining its strict responsibility, and the procedure for the appointment and resolution of the President of the Court. [[You don't understand.]] I stress the President of the Court, because we now have an entirely different solution to what has been under the existing legal provisions. Secondly, Chapter 3 of the Law lays down the delirious and way of working of the State Judicial Council, so with the precise section of the work. Thirdly, given that the above-mentioned amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was prescribed that the State Judicial Council decided independently on the appointment, promotion and relocation and resolution of judges and thus on a part-round council, it was necessary to lay down provisions on the appointment of judges which were so far contained in the Court Act to be incorporated into this draft law. Here we already have a whole series of links to these three laws, which was actually a criterion for uniting this debate, because essentially it's about the same institutes, which are now different regulated, and we see from this that they are even, I would dare say that from one law to another, in terms of some kind of nomotechnical and each other, what logic says. And point 4 is, therefore, the draft law specifically provides for a strict procedure against judges, and sets out strict actions as well as strict penalties that can be imposed on the judge. It shall also determine the reasons when the judge may be away from duty, as well as the reasons for the termination of the court's duties. This bill also stipulates that the judge has the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia for a decision on the discharge of the judicial duty. When we compare certain legal provisions, so one, two and three laws, I think it is good to compare and analyse exactly those provisions, and there is something about it, not something, but a lot of it has been said, that is, the Honorable Chairman of the Justice Committee as the position of the Justice Committee, it is said in a professional, professional way and it has actually compared Article 15 to the provision of the State Judicial Council Act to Article 18. Law on State's Attorney's Office. And I think those two laws deserve their attention, because they basically regulate the same matter, and in two completely different ways. Since it's the first-reading laws, I would suggest two things. First of all, to review that, in view of this, this is about the State Judicial Council, this is about the State Attorney's Council, so two very, very important judicial institutions. There is no reason in two different laws that we have different criteria and different choices of members of the State Judicial Council and of the State's Attorney's Council. And now that we have the State Judgment Council, this article 15 is absolutely acceptable in our opinion, acceptable legal solutions, so let me explain in short lines what this is really about, that is, to read this, briefly this article 15, which refers to university professors, which refers to parliamentary representatives, is it? So members of the council of the university professor of legal science are elected by all professors of law schools in the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Faculty of Law Councils. The Faculty Councils shall establish a list of candidates for the selection of members of the council, and the selection process of the commission to conduct the elections and how the elections are conducted shall be governed by the Rules of Procedure adopted by the deans of law. So we've given jurisdiction, procedure, and the moment it's legally done, we have members of that body from the university community. Article 16 of the same methodology provides for a similar methodology for selecting members from the ranks of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. So clear, precise legal provision, two members of the council appoints the Croatian Assembly from the ranks of their representatives, and one of them is the representative of the opposition. Now, when this article is compared, this article of course has this part that explains how other members of the State Judicial Council are appointed, but when we compare this article to Article 18. The law on the State's Attorney's Office, then we'll see that there are a lot of concrete ones in that sense, and I'll also point out in principle, not to say principled deviations. In the process of electing members of the State Attorney's Council, the State's Attorney's Office College of the Republic of Croatia will ask the Chief State Attorney, the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament and the Dean of Law to launch the application procedure for members of the Council. That's just fine. When the proceedings are initiated, the main state attorney, the Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament and the deans of the Faculty of Law, will submit within 60 days of the receipt of the request to the College of State Attorneys of the Republic of Croatia a proposal for candidates, namely candidates in the plural, and at least three candidates must be proposed for each place in the council. What does that actually mean? This means that when the Croatian Parliament gives its three candidates, they will forward them to the body, it is therefore a college of state lawyers, a colleague of the State's Attorney's Office, and then of course I think the term was used, and indeed... to read, or three candidates will choose means candidates by the criteria of two which, therefore, the State's Attorney's office thinks should be represented in that body. [[You don't understand.]] Furthermore, when we analyse the amendments now to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, these two things that have already been highlighted are indeed being observed. I don't think there's any need, and I don't think that in practice, parliamentary practice and in the practice of the work of a state attorney, the attorney general, or the state's attorney, it's been evaluated in the public, and in the professional public, and as far as I have information and in international professional circles as something good, as something positive. It's about a report on the work of the state's attorney's office. As parliamentarians, we also had the opportunity to talk once a year about the work of state attorneys, where we were, an opportunity to point to problems in the work of state attorneys, so often we discussed mostly the important state institution in the final line and the basis of these parliamentary debates, and in every other way in the ultimate line, that it could do its job in the right way, that the Constitution and the law had already been laid down or prescribed, and I don't think there were any problems, that there were any misunderstandings, that the discussions were good, and I see no reason why these work reports without, remain at least once a year at the meetings of the Croatian Parliament before us, in front of the Croatian Assembly to get acquainted with all these problems in the work or good things in the work and very important judicial state institutions. And of course by comparing these two laws, I would also point out that, or I would try to trouble you, given that the laws that are in the first reading are in place, that clear and precise solutions are also found by the second reading, both for the State Judicial Council and for the State Attorney's Council, I will say so when it comes to mandates. It is about transitional and final provisions where it is now an opportunity for these laws to be precisely and precisely determined when, when and at which point the mandate ceases, whether individual mandates, the term of office in relation to the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council. In practice and in normal work, these two bodies wouldn't have a problem. But I think that these are things that are absolutely up to another reading not to be removed, but to be arranged in a precise way, and when arranged in a precise way to be arranged in the same way for each other. Here, with that point of view, I would like to conclude on behalf of the Club, of course, with the note once again that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the proposals of these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56203	Thank you. It is the turn of the HNS and HSU Club, the distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56204	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies from the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Retirement Party, I can say that the first positive thing is that these laws go into two readings, they really need two readings because there is in all this much space that would be said to progress, in fact a lot of it has to be fixed and it helps the fact that we are going through two readings. These are namely the laws, which may, as we are a little hungover this afternoon, not all of us who are not directly involved in the debate, perhaps presently, these are the laws which we are carrying out the commitments made in the Justice and Fundamental Rights chapter, and depending on how we regulate it, we will close or not close this chapter, in other words, end or fail to conclude negotiations in the European Union. And this is no longer indirect, indirect, like this, but exactly what's written here depends on it. That is why there is still, with the obvious importance that it has in itself given the matter it regulates, I would say there is still this additional importance that it represents some of the key steps in the transformation or next phase of Croatia's development, if you want not only institutionalally but the development of the Croatian state. I'd like to warn you of the opening three documents that I think when we analyze these bill proposals, we need to keep in mind. Not necessarily in that order, but let me quote them because I think all three are important. The first is a short quote from our negotiating position on Chapter 23, which refers precisely to the subject of the selection of judges entering the profession for the first time, and I will quote this because without fulfilling it among other things, we cannot close negotiations on entering the European Union, in other words we cannot enter the Union. I quote: "In addition to the success of the judicial exam, the candidate will score the result of the test of the verification of essential personal abilities for the profession of the judge and the state's attorney as well as the necessary skills for the conduct of judicial duties. On the basis of the results achieved, the selected candidates will become candidates for judges and state lawyers and pass the preparatory judicial or state-run legal period of employment, which will first focus on educational modules as an education with a job," etc. I am reading this to warn that we have made some commitments in the negotiating position on how judges and state lawyers who enter the profession will be elected and in accordance with these commitments we must also make laws and then define the powers, methodology and methods of work between the State Judiciary Council and the State Attorney's Council. So we have very clear criteria. In the law, these criteria are already relatively clear, and we will have to change it to make it even clearer. The Law on the Judicial Academy has a chapter that applies, which is called Professional Training in the State School, and this is very detailed on the way in which the students of the State Judicial School are evaluated and based on which the evaluations and the tests between them and the psychological stability test prescribed by the Law, so by the basis of these tests and those assessments will be evaluated and will be publicly published as stated in the Law, and in the negotiating position, publicly published on the website, the State Judicial School in this case. So it'll be a public document will be a ranking list. Both the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council must respect the ranking list. And that's something that in this law that is proposed here must be clear. In order to strengthen the strength of this argument, I will also read the first criterion that we have received regarding Chapter 23. Justice and fundamental rights of the European Union. It reads, quotes: "To establish records of the results in implementation, recruiting in profession and appointing judges, state lawyers and presidents of courts, based on the application of unique, transparent, objective and at national level applicable and in laws incorporated", I repeat, "In the laws of built-in criteria, and ensure that the State School for Judges and State Lawyers begins". So that there's no confusion, which means starting with effective work, means we don't close the chapter until people get into that school. Of course not until they're done because it lasts two years but until they get into that school. So we have to have it and people have to get into that school by the criteria defined in advance. Since all the obligations we have made tell us that in this new edition, and colleagues have already spoken before me and warned about some things that I also consider relevant. For example, the non-compliance of the regulations relating to the State Judicial Council and the State-law Council. It is usually one task to start thinking about immediately, regardless of what this is the first reading. And that is that these three laws that are here today in the debate, but also another set of other laws, regulate one and the same area and our problem that is already being seen, and for example these three laws will be maybe we harmonised Croatian legislation with the European acquis, but we did not harmonize it within ourselves. And that we now have a problem with having laws that regulate more of the same area, and they are not in line or using different criteria by regulating the same area. And that's why it's good in a way that we can discuss these laws together because then it becomes obvious. It is becoming evident here that different approaches are made to, say, the regulation of the State's Attorney's Council rather than to the regulation of the State Judicial Council. That in order for us to finish this job, it is necessary that we harmonize the laws between those who regulate this area first so that people can function at all in this area, and secondly because we no longer adopt these laws, and I don't mean anything by it, but we don't bring them to mind, in other words, as it seems to us at this point in order to be good or bad, we bring them in already defined frameworks. We bring them in the context of what we have assumed as a commitment in the negotiating position, as what we have received as a direct request and a prerequisite in the closure criteria of chapter 23, even as what we have regulated in one as I think we have then spoken to a small and relatively undetectable law with far-reaching consequences, which is the Law on the Judicial Academy, which in itself has a chapter on professional training in the State Judicial School, which speaks of a change from the arbitration criteria used by the State Judicial Council and the State Council in other words a personal assessment of council members to move to objective criteria. So, the average grade, the assessment on the state's judicial exam, the test scores, the entry and exit, and even the test of psychological ability to perform such a job. It's all already regulated in an existing law that looks small, and it's actually big. It may be the law that has the farthest consequences in this regard. All these things must be taken into account when these laws are passed which are here on the agenda, and in particular the Law on the State Judicial Council, because then if we hit it and define it as we should, it can serve without further delay as a form of the basis of which the Law on the State Lawyer's Council will also be structured. I would like to warn you in particular about the Law on the State Judicial Council on Article 22 concerning the part of the Council. So, you're part of the State Judiciary Council. On behalf of the HNS Club, we propose that in particular in the indent one, so in the part-round council: then the indent of one appointment of judges, add some formulation in the direction of, say, in accordance with the defined procedure and the basis of objective criteria. Since the appointment of judges by other laws and international or European obligations must be based on objective criteria, and based on the Law on the Judicial Academy, it is clear which criteria, namely which evaluations and which tests. In other words, the State Judiciary Council is elected by judges, respectable judges, university professors of those two, and I agree with what my deputies have said both here and in that other law on the State Attorney's Council, parliamentary representatives. But after being so elected, they have laws prescribed and international obligations taken very clear criteria that must follow in the appointment of judges, in the advancement of judges, and especially in the appointment of new judges in the profession. Therefore, they cannot circumvent criteria such as evaluations, test results and judicial evaluations. So we suggest that there may be a better formula here, but the point should be that. Therefore, the first indent, the appointment of judges in accordance with the defined procedure and the basis of objective criteria. And the last indent under the power to adopt a methodology for making assessments of judges. This should also, in our opinion, be introduced based on objective criteria. What are objective criteria, is defined in other laws, but we believe that both in one and the other places should be referred to objective criteria A) because that's good, B) because that's how it was in the second law and C) because we directly took over that obligation in the negotiating position and we got it back on this scale, the first criterion for closing Chapter 23. Finally, Article 38 of this same Law on the State Judicial Council in paragraph 1 should formalise the criteria for progress, as well as for entering the profession as well as for progress. This may need to be changed in some other law, perhaps in this, think about it, but also on the basis of our international obligations, we need to formalise the criteria for progress. Finally another small remark. Since I counted that in this Law on Courts of 31st article which is amended 16 is deleted, it might not be bad for us to simply have a new law, so that we have a new proposal... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56205	Thank you. And now it's SDP's turn, distinguished representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56206	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. Three important laws absolutely, interlinked, but not necessarily and conditional. And right at the beginning, let me say that the Social Democratic Party, the Social Democratic Party Club, will support all three draft laws in the first reading. At the same time, it should be noted and pointed out that constitutional changes, hence the Croatian Constitution's novels and the needs of Croatian legislation, i.e. the Croatian state, to bring its legislation into line with the legislation of the European Union countries, have led to a proposal for these laws. And another introductory note, I think that the problem of vertical and horizontal harmonisation of the law of the Republic of Croatia is a chronic and acute problem also related to these laws, but even more difficult the chronic problem as a whole. And now we move on to the measure itself, the very proposals of the law. The first draft law on the State Judgment Council is actually the biggest change to be made. And what's to be offered? It is proposed to transfer, in part, to the jurisdiction of the State Judicial Council, with an independent decision on the appointment, promotion, transfer, resolution, strict responsibility of the judges and the President of the courts. In other words, this law gives the Croatian Assembly of Courts and Judges legal surrenders to the State Judicial Council, surrenders to the responsibility of the State Judiciary Council, and gives the trial to judges and courts. And the government's responsibility remains only with the provision of material goods to courts and judges. In such a situation, I could say, completely autonomous judges and the Council of Judges are responsible for the trial. In such a situation, the Social Democratic Party of Croatia club in its proposal to amend and supplement the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia even adopted a provision requiring the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to submit once a year a report on the Court of Justice in the Republic of Croatia which unfortunately did not accept the parliamentary majority. We believe that we have made a failure to obtain information or at least more complete information about the trial in the Republic of Croatia through or through representatives of Croatian citizens in the Croatian Parliament and citizens. It didn't pass, but no one's a prophet in their own house. What should be pointed out in the Law on the State Judicial Council is the first reading. It should be said that the composition of the State Judicial Council is, in principle, defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and only here is the provisions of Article 123 being discussed. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on the structure of the State Judiciary Council is talked about, what is in the Constitution, about seven judges, two university professors and two representatives of the Croatian Parliament. However, it should be said, and this is objected to by the SDP club, that there is no solution in the transitional and final provisions of the Law on the Judicial Council until the current judgment board is in place. I think that the transitional and final provisions must be laid down because this is a major change, significant changes for the composition and the delirious and jurisdiction of the Judicial Council, that it must be determined by when the council is working in the current composition. I think it must be a much shorter deadline than is predicted here and that six months to pass the rules for selecting members from the university and the procedure that is envisaged here, perhaps democracy is asking for it, is too expensive. So all the universities, all the professors choose the representatives in the judgment council. Lit should be assessed and Europe should be asked to do so. Because it doesn't make sense that all the professors from all the universities are choosing representatives in the judgment council. It should then be said that it has been amended, and the Constitution has amended the provision that first appointment of judges has been carried out for five years. Is this due to the European Union guidance or is it the result of experience in the Republic of Croatia? Whether it was minus or plus we don't have an explanation, and we should know what experience it is with these appointments of judges for five years because it seems to me that we haven't seen all the consequences and whether it was exactly without a reason or if it had some reason. The decorum and the jurisdiction of the Judicial Council remains unchanged to say so because it has been handed over in its jurisdiction and the appointment of the President of the Courts, which is an important paper for the independence of the Courts, but also for the responsibility of the Judicial Council. Maybe I should end up with that. I would point out once again that the transitional and final provisions need to be addressed in more detail the issue of appointment, duration of the Judicial Council, termination of the work and competence of the current council in the present composition and what happens if the extraordinary elections are for any reason in the Judicial Council. It's not there. As regards the proposal for an amendment and addition of the Law on Courts, it is indeed essential to the Proposed Law on the State Judicial Council because, due to the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Constitution of a particular section and jurisdiction of the Judicial Council under the Law on Courts, it has been transferred to the Court of Justice and to the jurisdiction of certain bodies which previously designated as the appointment of the President of the Courts or the composition of the State Judicial Council or jurisdiction in that law. But there is something in the Law of Courts that should be highlighted as a very important change. Namely, the establishment of this law establishes jumpsuits in county and municipal courts. This is, of course, a causal and consequential link between the Law on the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, but this is, of course, a causal link between our accession to the European Union, so these departments are established in Split, Osijek, Zagreb and Rijeka. In the same cities, departments are established in municipal courts as it is the logic of a two-stage trial in the Republic of Croatia. Of course it gives special responsibility to the courts in those centers. However, I have something I would like to highlight as a topic for the debate. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on courts provides for the draft laws to give an opinion either to the High Administrative Court and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. There is no question of what draft laws, whether it means all the draft laws, which would be absurd and certainly be irrational to organise such a thing, and I am sure it would be questionable from the point of view of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. If this is about, and it could also be from the logic of things to give their opinions on the draft laws governing the matter of the judiciary or even more narrow matter from the organisation of courts such as the Supreme and High Administrative Court, this could be questionable from the point of view of the conflict of interest of the courts themselves and the decision of the representatives of the citizens as they wish to see these courts and those laws. In any case, it is interesting to include it as a legal obligation, not as an opportunity to hear their opinion. The following newspaper is a list or a list of the art that is regulated by law. I think that the matter that is very well solved in the countries of the European Union both in experience and in laws should be taken over, but in general, literally with the Resor school. One experience from European Union countries that have the best tradition and best knowledge there. About the Law supplementing the Law on the State's Attorney's Office we still have to say I would say the unresolved status of the State's Attorney's Office. It is still the State Attorney's Office's administrative judicial authority to say so, which is the question of saying the current solutions offered and the instructions we received from the representatives of the European Union, or recommendations to which it is limited, literally here it limits the influence of the executive government, so the Government, the Minister of State's Attorney. That's not to say harmless instructions, nor is the restriction mentioned here. Therefore, the impact of the ministry and government was evident when the European Union suggests that we exclude it from the possibility of ex-legislating under the law. If we were to exclude it in practice, in reality, then we would take a significant step in the democratisation and legal certainty of citizens and all of us living in the Republic of Croatia regardless of which political side they opted for. Of course, we support such an attitude expressed in reason, but it is not fully understood in norm. I'm really not going to quote right now, so I'm going to try to study it better, so I'm going to prepare some amendments either personally or in the name of the club by the second reading. But to define in the end. Law proposals, and three are on the agenda of the first reading, are valid. And I repeat that the SDP club will support their adoption in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56207	Thank you. And it's still next to the HSS Club, the esteemed representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56208	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. We will try to stay more to the greater extent in the debate regarding the proposal for a law on the State Judicial Council. Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia adopted on 18 June this year, amended and the position of the current State Judicial Council, and this body was arranged as an independent and independent body ensuring the independence and independence of the judicial authority in the country. In accordance with the provision of Article 4 of the bill of the Council, 11 members, 3 judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, 2 judges of the county court, one judge of the municipal court, and one judge of specialised courts, and two university professors of legal science, two parliamentary representatives, one of which is one of the lines of opposition. Members of the Council for a period of 4 years, with no one being elected more than twice, if the member of the council ceases his duties before the time at which he is elected, another member shall be elected to his post until the end of the term of office. Members of the State Judicial Council of the Judges will no longer be elected by the Croatian Parliament, but by the judges themselves. Members of the Board of Legal Sciences professors will be elected by all professors of legal science at the Croatian universities' law schools. Of the many provisions that make this legislative proposal a real European law, we at the Croatian Peasant Party Club want to look particularly at those that will certainly welcome the Court Corps as a whole, which are at the level of information of interest to the general public. It is thus determined by Article 19(1) that, in the course of their duties as a member of the council, judges may not be appointed to judicial duty in a higher-level court. This provision was obviously necessary to lay down by law, since the current practice of the appointment of judges by the State Judiciary Council had just gone in the opposite direction, and, in general, the members of the councils of municipal courts, or were appointed as judges of the county courts, usually at the beginning of the conduct of a member of the State Judicial Council, which would result in the municipal courts losing their representative in the council. It is also very good news that the criteria for selecting candidates for a judge, i.e. the person who is first appointed judges is specifically objectively objected to the knowledge check in front of the council,... two first-degree rulings based on a concrete case file, and an oral discussion assessing the motivation of candidates for judicial work, the ability to resolve conflicts and decision-making, and the sense of justice and responsible conduct of judicial duty. [[You don't understand.]] So far there has been no such practice by the council itself. It is also important to announce in the very appointment of the President of the Courts who are coming out of the power of the Minister in charge of the affairs of the judiciary, and who, from now on, will be appointed by the State Judicial Council by the President of the Supreme Court, the President of the High Court and the Minister of Justice, in the light of the attached opinion of the relevant Judicial Council, the President of the High Court and the Minister of Justice. The president of the court is appointed to be 4 years and cannot be appointed more than two seats in office. So the president of the court will be able to spend the longest eight years of his life in this position in continuity. Unless he is re-appointed after the first term of office, the former president continues to act as judge in the court in which he was appointed judge. The Council will also no longer be able to appoint a lower-level judge for the President of the High Court in accordance with the provision of Article 64 of the Proposal for a Law on the President of the Court of Justice may be appointed Judge of the same kind, the same degree in which the President of the Court or Judge of the Higher Court is appointed. Thus, it will no longer be possible for the municipal court judge to be appointed the president of the county court without a single day of judicial training in a senior court. I particularly welcome this provision as a guarantee of senior level judges. In view of all of the above, it is convinced that the work of the State Judiciary Council will be significantly improved by the adoption of this law. The Croatian Peasant Club considers the proposals of this law to be acceptable, necessary, above all, for the conclusion of the negotiations, i.e. the closure of Chapter 23, and therefore we will give proposed legislative proposals to support in this first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56209	Thank you. Dear Tatjana Vučetic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56210	Just here, I wanted to thank all the parliamentary representatives for the constructive discussion and for the suggestions and recommendations that have been made. It's about first reading and these recommendations and suggestions will be useful to make one more precise and quality law until second reading, all three I think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56211	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. And we'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56212	We move to the Proposal for a Law on the State Judicial Council, first reading, P.Z. No. 576, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I give the vote the following conclusion: The proposal for a law on the State Judicial Council, all objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This bill is, the conclusion was accepted by most 98 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56245	And we're gonna make another point today. There's more torture to be solved. Point 21. - Proposal for a Law on a National Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Demeaning Procedures or Penalty, First Reading, P.Z. No. 580 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the materials by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply, Articles 140 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Tatjana Vučetic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56246	Mr. Vice President. So this law is a fulfillment of the international obligations that the Republic of Croatia has made by signing a cultural protocol with a convention against torture and other cruel and inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishment. The university protocol came into force compared to the Republic of Croatia in 22.6.2006. In accordance with the Faculty Protocol, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to appoint and establish no later than one year after its entry into force or its ratification or accession, one or several independent national mechanisms to prevent torture at national level. In addition to fulfilling the international obligation, this law aims to ensure the strengthening of the protection of persons deprived of the freedom of torture and other types of inhumane conduct. The law lays down that the Advocate General shall ensure the functioning of the national mechanism to prevent torture. The activities of the national mechanism for preventing torture shall be carried out by the Ombudsman and by persons from the Office of the Ombudsman who has the power to do so, together with two representatives of the Associations registered to carry out activities in the field of protection of human rights and two representatives of the academic community. The Ombudsman shall include, where appropriate, other independent experts in the performance of the tasks. The way the body works will be prescribed by the Advocate General by a special regulation. The law defines the tasks and powers of the national mechanism for preventing torture, consisting of regular tours of places where there are or may be persons deprived of liberty, making recommendations to competent authorities and institutions, and making proposals and objections to laws and other regulations to promote the protection of persons deprived of liberty. The obligation to cooperate with the National Mechanism to prevent torture with the United Nations subcommittee on the prevention of torture and other cruel non-human or humiliating proceedings or punishment that assists or advises national mechanisms to prevent torture in strengthening the protection of persons deprived of freedoms is also foreseen. This Law and the action of the national mechanism to prevent torture seek to ensure more frequent and detailed tours of institutions or bodies in which persons are deprived of freedom are found, thus bringing the Republic of Croatia in line with international standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56247	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? As far as I can tell, no. Then I open up the debate and we have three clubs. First, the HDZ Club is a respected representative, Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56248	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law on a national mechanism to prevent torture and other cruel inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishment. As the State Secretary of State of the Republic of Croatia pointed out in its opening presentation, this proposal fulfils the international obligation, namely, the optional protocol for this Convention was signed on 22 June 2006 and has since begun to expire on the deadline since the Republic of Croatia should take over the above-mentioned university protocol with the Convention on the National Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture and other cruel inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishments. To date, the Republic of Croatia has not fulfilled its international obligation, the Convention provided that the maximum period of three years since the national legal system should not be applied for certain reasons. This proposal for a law will fulfil the international obligation and, as foreseen by the Law, the Ombudsman ensures the functioning of this national mechanism to prevent torture. The Law provides for mechanisms to prevent torture, including regular visits to places where there are or could be persons deprived of liberty to make recommendations to competent authorities, to make proposals for objections to laws and other regulations, and to promote protection of persons deprived of liberty, and to cooperate with the United Nations Subcommittee on the prevention of torture and inhumane proceedings against persons deprived of liberty. The proposal also provides for unannounced visits to bodies or institutions, as well as a review of the premises in which persons are deprived of liberty, in order to ensure fundamental human rights and the rights of persons deprived of liberty. It also allows free access to information, free access to all data on the treatment of persons deprived of liberty, and conversation with persons deprived of liberty of choice and without the presence of officials of the body or institution to be visited. The Ombudsman will appoint persons from his office who will be responsible for the implementation of this national mechanism, and two representatives from the associations registered in the Republic of Croatia to carry out the field of human rights protection activities and two representatives from the academic community are also foreseen. The implementation of this proposed law will require minimum funding in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia, which is 100 thousand kuna for 2011 and 100 thousand kuna for 2012. Such a mechanism is foreseen, it is known in the European Union countries, for example in Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Denmark, Sweden, Estonia and Macedonia, and therefore, the Ombudsman is the competent authority in charge of the implementation of this Faculty Convention. It should also be pointed out that once a year, the Croatian Parliament will report on the implementation of this national mechanism. And if measures are taken against the authorities responsible for the implementation, the correction of those proceedings against persons deprived of liberty, the Ombudsman shall be empowered to inform the Croatian Parliament before a time. This Faculty Protocol will enter into force on 1 January 2011, and the Ombudsman is required within two months of the date of adoption in the Croatian Parliament to provide an implementing regulation to regulate the way in which the national torture prevention mechanism is handled. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56249	Thank you. It is the turn of the HSS Club of Honorable Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56250	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Madam Secretary of State. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support the Bill on the National Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture and other Cruel and Inhuman or Demeaning Procedures or Penalty in order to determine the body to carry out the tasks of the national mechanism for the prevention of torture and the defined tasks of the same, in accordance with the optional protocol with the Convention against Torture and other non-human or humiliating proceedings or penalties. The activities of the national torture prevention mechanism shall be carried out by the Ombudsman and by the staff of the Ombudsman who has the power to do so, together with two representatives of the Associations registered to carry out activities in the field of protection of human rights and two representatives of the academic community. This model is known in many countries, Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Spain, Denmark, Sweden, Estonia and Macedonia and other countries, and this law also defines the business of the national mechanism for preventing torture. Namely, the national mechanism for preventing torture should have the minimum powers to regularly examine proceedings against persons deprived of liberty, in places of detention,... their protection against torture and other inhuman or demeaning proceedings or punishments, which, as a job of the national mechanism for preventing the torture, have been tortured by certain regular tours of places where they are or could be found persons deprived of liberty, in order to strengthen their protection against torture or other cruel or inhumane and humiliating proceedings or punishment. The job of the national mechanism to prevent torture is also to make recommendations to the competent authorities in institutions to improve the treatment of persons deprived of liberty and the conditions in which they are found to prevent torture and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishment. Preventing and eradicating torture and inhumane treatment is a priority of the European Union's human rights policy. Torture and inhumane conduct are among the worst forms of human rights violations and menace to human dignity. Traces that point to torture or torture are found in ancient Egypt where some drawings show that tax collectors have beaten Felah in the soles of their feet to find out the hidden grain reserves that the torture had probably the significance of punishment. Under the general declaration of human rights, no one must be subjected to torture or cruel inhumane or humiliating proceedings or punishment. International law unconditionally prohibits all forms of torture and inhumane treatment, which means no exceptions are allowed. However, the practice of torture and inhumane conduct remains widespread worldwide. Many conflicts and tensions around the world have made different forms of torture present today in their full intensity and diversity also include different populations of society and different countries. Torture today is the strongest instrument of power against democracy. Torture and other forms of inhumane conduct are particularly characteristic of closed societies where human rights are of little value. In such societies, repression is strongly directed towards individuals or individual groups, political, ethnic, religious. At the same time, the phenomenon of torture is not exclusively linked to closed societies. In countries with a multi-year democratic tradition of government, too, various forms of physical and psychological torture, harassment and inhumane treatment are often used to obtain recognition or some information. This was particularly evident in the recent war in these areas, where Serb aggressors used different methods of multiplying against prisoners, soldiers and civilians, especially in the camps they took them to, and that is for every conviction. It never happened again. No matter where we are or who we are, regardless of the ethnic and cultural background, language or religion, we are all united against torture in solidarity with victims and their families. It is a reminder that every day some people in the world are subjected to torture. It is also a reminder that these people, with appropriate support, can restore their lives despite the suffering of cruel hands of abusers. The club of HSS representatives will support the adoption of the Law on a national mechanism for preventing torture and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56251	Thank you. And on behalf of the HNS club, HSU's distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56252	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS and HSU Club will support this Act on a national mechanism for preventing torture and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishment. It's a good thing the Croatian Party is this convention. We are a little confused that on the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs they found it effective for the Republic of Croatia on April 25th, this protocol on April 25th 2005, and in our materials that it was in June next year. But there is likely to be some technical error in copying that part of the material. What you might do in the future when such materials are given a little more information. We've been struggling first. I have to tell the club that we'll find out whose convention, the UN or the Council of Europe is at all. So we didn't know anything about it. But we quickly tracked down and saw that it was the UN convention and the university protocols right at the convention. It's a good thing that colleague Petir said that Croatia is a party to this convention and this protocol. Because unfortunately, out of 192 UN member states there are only 41 members of the Convention, and only 25, so I repeat only 25 of them by the party to this protocol. What we also didn't get, and we would like to pray that in future we get more information about the content of such ratification of these documents. My colleagues and colleagues, I don't know if you know that Croatia has prepared three reports on this subject over the past 20 years for the relevant UN subcommittee or subcommittee. We don't know anything about the content of these reports. At least I don't know. We haven't had time because of the way we work, we keep chasing the agenda, we don't know what the next point is going to be, and we can't really get ready seriously. So, three reports have gone towards the UN we do not know the content of these reports, because it is likely that if we know the content we could, as parliamentary representatives, propose certain improvements, certain solutions, certain moves and steps to change that situation. Unfortunately, we don't know anything about that. What is bad is also the fact that as you have seen here objectively we are told that Croatia did not start today after 4 years, it had a year to do so, the national mechanism. Furthermore, Croatia did not appoint another body to perform those functions and those tasks during that period. And she could have done it. If she hadn't done any of the others, then she should have asked for a delay in the application of the protocol because we had that opportunity. And even this minimum responsibility to the UN has not been done correctly. Which certainly shouldn't happen. It has been many years since Croatia became a member of the UN, we have committed ourselves to respecting individual conventions, the protocols we have joined. Unfortunately, here we see it's not always like that. So what we can say about the law itself is that we think it's correct, that the attorney general, NGOs and the academic community seem to be involved in this mechanism. I hope that the Office of the Attorney General himself is to know what awaits them, that you have agreed with them because it has not been confirmed anywhere, or we have not heard that at least I have not heard that the Attorney General accepts such a complex and new additional task, although he does part of these jobs. We know part of these jobs are doing, visiting prisons, etc., but this is a very serious business, this is about additional work, preparing precisely these reports that have to be sent periodically, the public being sent to the Council, or a subcommittee that monitors this matter. And there seems to me nothing is disputed, except for one part of the text in Article 7, which concerns the public of work. The public's work is bothering us, namely Article 7. I'll read it, there's only one sentence. "The persons involved in performing the tasks of the national torture prevention mechanism are obliged to keep as secret the information they have learned in the performance of the jobs." Instead of yelling, instead of warning, instead of looking, instead of reacting quickly and promptly in all ways and preventing human rights violations, they must keep a secret. The Attorney General must warn the institution in which he has noted that human rights are being violated. This facility has a certain time to correct its behavior. If he does not do so then, only then will the Ombudsman in his report inform the Croatian Parliament of what is happening annually. Therefore, a relatively slow, trom and inefficient mechanism that should be quick and efficient in correcting all the negatives that are observed with regard to this Convention and this Protocol. So this mechanism really doesn't know why it has to go like that. On the other hand, this communication is also mentioned between the future national mechanism and the UN subcommittee. Not exactly how often reports will go to the United Nations. And what would be with the proposal of our club, the HNS-HSU club, is that it would be a good thing now that we as the Croatian Parliament are establishing this national mechanism, it would be good for these reports to come at least to the benches of our colleagues sitting on the Committee on Human Rights. That's the minimum we're looking for. So let the report also go to the UN, but have it parallelly come to the competent board of the Croatian Parliament. The colleagues will have this material so on their benches, they will be able to inform the rest of us or ask that perhaps at the plenary session they would eventually notice as inappropriate and where we should then react. Therefore, there are still a number of things that should be corrected, clarified, interpreted, analysed and given to all the parliamentary representatives, to the knowledge of this information that I was looking for in front of our club. It is likely that a number of similar enquiries will have colleagues from other clubs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56253	Thank you. And I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when they get the necessary conditions on that wheel. It'll be over for the day. And I announce that tomorrow morning we will continue with the 22nd point, that is the proposal for a law on public enforcement, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 581. There's a chance it can be and it's such an initiative to be united by point 25, but please we'll agree on that tomorrow morning. And we'll continue the session tomorrow morning at 9.30 p.m. ... We'll see about that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Tomorrow we'll start with that, and then we'll talk about what we're doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-08-0.u56254	Proposal for a law on a national mechanism to prevent torture and other cruel, inhumane humiliation or punishment. It's a first reading, P.Z. Number 580. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "The proposal for a law on a national mechanism for preventing torture and other cruel inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishment is adopted. Secondly, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Let's please get involved and vote on the conclusion. The result? This proposal for a conclusion was adopted unanimously by 103 votes. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We continue to work and move on to - Proposed law on public enforcement, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 581 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the materials by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. I propose that the debate be brought together with this item on the agenda also the proposal for an executive law, first reading, point 25. same P.Z.E. No. 584. - Proposed law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 584. He is also the proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the materials by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does anyone have any objection to the unification of these two points of the agenda? If she doesn't, then we've united her point P.Z.E. No. 581 and 584 and we'll discuss them together. I don't think it takes a minute to increase for these reasons, so it stays 10 minutes, or 15 for clubs. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Minister of Justice, Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
