ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61748	Just one quick question. We didn't get the agenda so when we're going to get it, which point after this goes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61749	You'll get it now. The agenda will be cleared, and the next item can be immediately presented by the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Administration Act, so behind this point, and then you will see from the consolidated agenda as follows. Does he want... Yes. Representative for the Proposer Mr Davor Mrduljas, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61750	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Law on procedures and conditions of construction to encourage investment, "National Journal" 69/09. It entered into force on 25 June 2009. In order to encourage investment in the area of construction by 31 December 2010, this law regulates the construction, issue of works for construction, use of buildings for which a local permit and confirmation of the main project is normally issued under the Law on Spatial Planning. The basic purpose of the law was to accelerate the flow of capital, to encourage direct investment in the area of construction, as short as possible by issuing a building permit, by including all public authorities in the preparation of the project documentation prior to the submission of the request by increasing the responsibility of the participants in the construction especially of the designers and investors, and by ensuring the protection of investor rights in the event of unfair treatment of public authorities and sanctioning ineffective treatment. During the period from 25 June 2009 until 31 August this year, the ministry was closely monitoring and monitoring the application of this law and, for the purpose of preparing a proposal for this law, an analysis of the conduct of this law was carried out. It should also be said that, in accordance with Article 40 of this Law, the Ministry has concluded with the units of local and regional self-government, means with counties, large cities and cities that have special authority to issue acts on the basis of which professional assistance agreements can be built by employees, ministry officials, those administrative bodies that request it in certain cases. As a rule, an agreement has been concluded with all, except with the Koprivnica and Križevci County, which has not shown any interest in the conclusion of the agreement, as well as in the cities of Rijeka, Sisak, Varazdin and Samobor, who have also not shown the need to conclude such an agreement in providing professional assistance, believing that they can do so themselves. What does the analysis say? A total of 811 requests for a building solution have been seized from which 45 investors withdrew the request so that 766 applications remain. 427 building solutions were issued, which was about 55.7%, rejected or rejected a total of 186 requests and on 31 August 2010 there were 153 requests in the resolution process. The largest number of applications was received in 9 competent authorities in the City of Zagreb 109, Primorje-Gorski County 53, Međimurska 50, Split-Dalmatia 44, Osijek-Baranja 41, Krapinsko-Zagorska 38, Varazdinska 37, Vukovar-Srijemska 30, in the City of Varazdin 30, while in other administrative bodies in the territory of the Republic of Croatia the number of requests received was less than 30. In the application of the law, the application was rejected or rejected according to the following reasons. 55 investors had no proof that they had the right to build, so they had no resolved property-legal relations, i.e. a proven right of ownership on real estate not intended to build. Three buildings were intended to be built in a protected area of nature, and 16 buildings were started or were built without an appropriate act by the competent authority, meaning buildings that fall under legalisation procedures, not the application of these laws. Also, 71 applications were rejected because they were submitted for buildings not subject to this law. This law does not apply to buildings for which the ministry issues a local and building permit. Compared to the very structure of buildings according to the purpose for which the construction solution is issued 24.4% is residential and business buildings, 26.2% are personal and manufacturing buildings, 3.1% are catering and touristic, 9.1%) are commercial and 37.2% are mostly infrastructure purposes. Up until now, 17 complaints have been made, about 4% and all complaints have been resolved within the prescribed time limit. Furthermore, by analysing the application of the law and in accordance with the Economic Recovery Programme of the Republic of Croatia adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a further application of this law is also envisaged. Since, as I have already said in the introduction, the application of this law has been limited or, by the end of this year, it is proposed to extend the application of the law until 31 December 2012. It should be noted that the percentage of resolution within 45 days or a significantly shorter period is about 54.3%, 15.7% of the solution is issued within 45 to 60 days, 17.9 within 60 to 100 days, and 12% of the requirements are resolved within a period of more than 100 bottoms. The deadlines were most frequently affected by requests to supplement the requirements for the issue of a building solution, incomplete project documentation or any other evidence not attached to the request for it to be neat. When it comes to issuing within the deadline, the following should be said, that it should be commended to Koprivnica-križevčka, Lika-Senjska County, as well as the towns of Osijek, Krapina, Virovitica, Umag and Vodnjan, who have issued all the solutions within the legal period of 45 days. Other units of local self-government are mixed while in Istria County, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, these are their administrative departments, Požeko-Slavon County, the cities of Velika Gorica, Sisak, Bjelovar and Rijeka are not issued any solution unfortunately within the deadline. The very analysis of the results of this first year of application of the law indicates that the basic purpose of passing the law is to reduce the acts on the basis of which it can be built and we think that it is necessary to continue with this law as I have proposed, of course, with the further instruction that the ministry is carrying out through its administrative and instructive supervision and also by professional training of the designers to whom they are required under the Act on Architectural and Engineering Activities, in order to achieve as much efficiency as possible in the application of this law, and for all these reasons, we consider it necessary to extend this application of this law in particular in order to strengthen the investment cycle at the time of this recession and to make it easier for investors to obtain the necessary building permits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61751	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61752	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the proposal to amend the Law on Conduct and Construction Conditions to encourage investment. We will support the adoption of these amendments to the laws that are, in fact, down to one, only one amendment to the law, but according to us, a key provision of the law that extends the validity of this law from the end of this year to 31 December 2012. The basic law required by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in June 2009 was passed at the time of the crisis and recession in the Republic of Croatia and at the time when it was adopted was one of the anti-resion measures that should contribute to creating more favourable conditions for direct foreign or domestic investment in the Republic of Croatia. What is important to say is that the law itself applied to only those objects that, whose construction required the establishment of the first location permits, and then the outcome of the confirmation of the main project, which means that it did not refer to family buildings up to 400 square meters, nor to agricultural facilities up to 600 square meters, nor to important strategic, key, infrastructure projects in the Republic of Croatia for which the location permit and construction permit is issued by the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction. In fact, the aim of the adoption of this Law was to enable all, the whole documentation or the possibility of starting construction to be made available to the investor after contributing to a neat and complete request within 45 days, so the law was popularly and named all within 45 days because all those investors interested in investing or building buildings in the Republic of Croatia were allowed to make it possible to issue it within 45 days after the request of a competent county or a large city in its work area to issue building permits, i.e. the confirmation of the main project or building solution. In its opening part, Mr. Secretary of State stated that before making the amendments to this law, the ministry produced a survey and which survey showed that the adoption of this law was justified in June last year and that, to the greatest extent, more than 60% of investors who submitted the request within 45 days and the decision on construction was reached and were allowed to build. As long as this law was not required by the body, either the administrative body of the county or the administrative body of the large city which issues these documents as much as it would be necessary to do so. But in any case, its implementation is very justified, and this is as I said I showed the very survey that was made before the Government proposed to the Croatian Parliament an amendment to the law itself. What is also important is that the survey showed that the requirements were largely rejected because the investor did not have proof that he had the right to build because of the lack of compliance of the main project with the spatial-planned documentation and the specific conditions issued in the construction solution process. That's one reason. The second reason was because the construction of the building was initiated prior to the issue of an appropriate act by the competent authority, so it was in its own right to legalise it, which was practically prohibited by the original law, or because certain investors tried to obtain and result in an appropriate solution to the construction of buildings that do not otherwise fall under the provisions of the law itself. For further implementation and affirmation of this law, it is important to say that it is necessary to make additional efforts by all state bodies in the Republic of Croatia that could and should enable further successful implementation of the law itself. I think, first of all, of setting up property-legal relations in the Republic of Croatia and because of the law enforcement, it has been observed that a very large number of potential investors in the Republic of Croatia in part of the spatial-planned documentation, in part of the production of the main project meets the basic criteria for the implementation of the law itself, but cannot fundamentally contribute to their request that they are owners and have the right to build on their building particle. So this is one of the biggest reasons why many investors in the Republic of Croatia cannot start building their buildings. What are the reasons that lead to this fact that a large number of potential investors in Croatia cannot even contribute to the request for the start of building their buildings, which would if they met these building conditions that they could export or obtain a building solution, which would be issued under this law. So the fact is that for decades, and I would say that the entire past century has been a virtually neglected systematic renewal of the catastra and land book in the Republic of Croatia, and that the unsettled property-legal situation in a very large number of particles, in a very large area of the Republic of Croatia, is practically impossible on a very large part of the Republic of Croatia, is a major investment. Only after the adoption of the Law on Real Estates, which was adopted at the end of the 1990s, began the systematic cadastral measurement in Croatia, which led to the restoration of the land book, so that at the moment a new cadastrian measurement is carried out in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and the production of a land book on 9% of the entire territory, or somewhere on about 300 catastrian municipalities, of the 3,000 and 500 catastrian municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. Of these 300 catastrian municipalities, which are in the process of new measurements and the production of land books, about a third of them have already been completed by about a hundredth of them, and the construction of a real estate cadastre has been completed and the land book has been harmonised, while the remaining two thirds of them, so 200 cadastrian municipalities that are in the process of new measurements, still have been exposed, were the completion of the construction of the real estate catalogue and the restoration of land books for these cadastrian municipalities. Since the procedure for many units of local self-government is of crucial importance for the development and construction of basic infrastructure, for the raising of entrepreneurship zones in the area of these municipalities, at this time according to the State Geodetic Administration's data somewhere around 160 units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia, so 160 municipalities or cities of the State Geodetic Administration have submitted a request for the creation of a new cataster and land book, and over the next few years one of the biggest challenges and Governments of the Republic of Croatia, and in particular the Ministry, or the State Geodetic Administration, will be to provide sufficient resources for making a new catalogue of real estate, which is a prerequisite for the renewal of the land book, which means a prerequisite for a quality solution and the provision of any investment in the Republic of Croatia. Another important prerequisite that could allow for a new investment cycle, I would say the investment momentum in the Republic of Croatia is the completion of plans for the lower order provided for by the Law on Simple Planning and Construction. The fact is that all 556 units of local self-government in Croatia have established basic documents of spatial-planned documentation, hence building spatial plans of municipalities, or cities, but in a large number of these units of local self-government, it is necessary to draw up any urban plans of solutions, arrangements, or detailed arrangements on the basis of this basic document. Until these spatial-planned documents are passed by investors, they simply cannot come into a position that they can apply for the construction of their buildings. Therefore, in addition to this problem that comes down to the disorientation of the land-book situation, another important problem, another important assumption that in a very large number of cities and municipalities has not yet, it has not been carried out, it is the creation of all those low-level space-planned documents that come from, whose commitment to design comes from the spatial plan of the municipality, or the city, must be made. Only when the plans of the lower order are created, when the property-legal situation is settled in the rest of the Republic of Croatia, which has the most intense construction, which is therefore urban centres, are, that is, the coastal area, the infrastructure corridors, will we be able to say that we have fulfilled as a country assumptions for the possibility of a large investment cycle in the Republic of Croatia. So certainly, we at the Croatian Democratic Community club support the adoption of this law, because according to a survey conducted by the Ministry, it has shown its justification, but the real investment cycle in the Republic of Croatia will be possible when in a very large space in which space-planned documentation is largely intensively built in the Republic of Croatia, on the one hand, land-book relations and, on the other hand, when these spaces, these areas of cities and municipalities are covered and when complete spatial and planning documents are drawn up for them, as provided for by the law itself. Therefore, we in the Croatian Democratic Community Club estimate that this extension is appropriate for two years and that two more years for which the law will continue to apply in the same way will meet this basic purpose which has practically led to the need to pass such a law. So it is clear that we will fully support this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61753	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61754	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and deputies, Mr. Secretary of State. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support the adoption of this law, and we believe that the adoption of this law is extremely important, because we are aware that in Croatia sometimes the administration is inexorable, and the aim is to encourage investment and create new jobs, and from this aspect we certainly support in the club HSS the programme of economic recovery of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which, within the framework of the implementing measures, decided to refer to the Croatian Parliament and the proposal for this Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction in order to encourage investment, which regulates the extension of the law for two years, i.e. until 31 December 2012. This law has been in force since 25 June 2009. It has been adopted in order to really help boost investment in the area of construction, but also to speed up the issue of works for the construction, use and disposal of buildings to which a local permit and confirmation of the main project is issued under the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, as well as the implementation of administrative and inspection supervision. The law stipulates that the construction of such buildings can be accessed by an investor on the basis of only one act, i.e. a building solution. It is also prescribed that the law does not apply to those buildings for which the investor does not have the right to build within the meaning of the law, to buildings which are intended to be built in a protected area of nature and to those whose construction has been started without an appropriate act by the competent authority, i.e. buildings built without that act. The law-making objectives themselves were to allow for the start of the construction of economically significant buildings within a shorter period of time, i.e. within 45 days of the date of submission of an orderly application for a building solution. The aim was also to enable public-legislative bodies to be involved in the preparation of the project documentation prior to the submission of requests for a solution. Also, what was intended to achieve by this law is to increase the responsibility of the participants of the construction especially of the designers and investors themselves during the preparation of the project documentation. But, as we heard from the State Secretary's presentation, it was wanted to organise the competent administrative authorities of the local self-government unit to conduct procedures in due time and issue solutions because very often there is a rabbit in that bush, or in that part we have problems because it does not comply with the deadlines prescribed by the law. Of course, there is a lack in issuing all these acts and that there is insufficient coordination between the competent public-legislative authorities involved in the process of issuing a solution, so this law is, in the opinion of us in the HSS Club, more than welcome. The analysis of the results of the first year of application of the law has shown that the basic purpose of the adoption of this law is to reduce the time limit for the issue of acts on the basis of which the investor can start construction, and thus the possibility of removing obstacles to their investment in the area of spatial planning and construction and to positive results in the coordination of bodies that issue special conditions. At the same time, the analysis shows that the need to further improve the work and conduct of all participants is noticeable, in particular in the preparation of the prescribed documentation, as well as the improvement of the work of the competent authorities in the procedures and meeting the deadlines prescribed by law. In the following period, particular attention should also be paid to the affirmation of the application of this law to potential investors because the analysis showed that of the 811 requests submitted had been rejected for the following reasons: some investors had no proof that they had the right to build, in some other cases the buildings started to build without an appropriate act by the competent authority, some intended to build in protected areas, and some had no compliance with the main project with spatial planning documentation and special conditions, or had a lack of specific conditions such as non-payment of municipal and water contributions, failure to meet the deadlines for removing deficiencies in the project. Therefore, these indicators suggest that investors should be further informed of the law enforcement and how they can help themselves, i.e. use what both the Government and the Republic of Croatia allow, within 45 days, the necessary permits and approaches to construction to be issued within a short period of time. So, as I have already said, 811 requests for a building solution have been received in this year. It is evident from these requirements that 45 investors have given up construction so that 766 active requirements remain. The number of investors who gave up their demands is the largest in Split-Dalmatia and Međimurje County. Of the 766 active requirements, 427 building solutions have also been rejected and 186 requests have been rejected due to non-compliance with the requirements for compliance with the law and a resolution of 153 requirements is under way. The maximum number of applications was submitted for infrastructure purposes and equally for housing and business purposes, i.e. business and production purposes. The largest number of building solutions was issued in the competent administrative body of the City of Zagreb, Varazdinska, Osijek-Baranjska, Međimurska, Krapinsko-Zagorska and Vukovar-Srijem County and the town of Varazdin. All these indicators and analysis by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction points out that it is good to extend this deadline for the application of the Law on Conduct and Construction Conditions to encourage investment and we in the Club of Representatives of the HSS will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61755	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61756	Good afternoon, Honorable President of the Parliament, distinguished representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a bill that de facto extends the temporary solution. As if behind 2012, we won't have to encourage investment and reduce red tape. In fact, this law recognises the inability to systematically regulate the removal of administrative barriers for investors and to delay the whole story by 2 full years. I suppose it also acknowledges that the crisis in Croatia will last at least 2 full years. The effects that each law should satisfy are economic, social, environmental and fiscal. When we talk about economic impacts, then we need to answer a few questions. Does it encourage investment, does it encourage employment, does it promote and change education structure, does it encourage exports or imports, does it promote competitiveness, does it promote regional development? But from this you can't see, this law is a de facto of the Styria nature in crisis conditions. Because the basic prerequisite for any promotion of economic activity is the sustainability of the law, not the changing of the law. A stable regulation where investors know what they're on and not that the laws change overnight. This should look like well-prepared laws, so it should look like a positive investment climate in the Republic of Croatia. Remember a bunch of laws that have experienced their amendments, not to mention the Insurance Act that has been changed four times in four years, and all with the same explanation that it is in line with the positive acquis of the European Union, remember all the laws that have been adopted urgently, without two readings, in an emergency procedure without public debate and consultation with the profession. As a consequence, it has all the effects that have affected the Croatian economy today. When you can introduce a new tax overnight, when you can change, income tax rates, when you don't have credit security because your country's credit risk is growing, when you're having a hard time borrowing in that country, when the laws take a limited time, when you don't have the continuity of those laws when they experience changes and supplement, then it's no wonder that the economy is falling, that investments have fallen by 25%, that industrial production in the last two years has fallen over 15%, that the gross social product has fallen by over 10% in the last two years, that individence in the system is greater than 31 billion kuna and that 30 thousand businesses are barely operating and the question of whether it will survive. And when all of this is taken into account, then we rightly ask ourselves why, first of all, this law which is intended to encourage and facilitate investment, a law with a duration of time, will we not have to encourage or introduce permanent incentives for investors, and this is an example of an ad hoc solution. Secondly, the question arises as to what is wrong with the basic Construction Act when a special law must be introduced, a legislation which speeds up the construction process. Now this second question is a question that goes into the box Believe it or not? So, we have an existing Construction Act and this special law we don't discuss this Law on construction de facto, but we put this one as a priority for a certain type of investment. It's far from a systematic approach. And the third law does not prescribe any building priorities. IS it necessary to even all the buildings of this Law, whether investment in production and infrastructure capacities is worth more than housing or not production or clean housing? This is what can encourage the creation of new jobs but all questions need to be answered. And territorial priorities, this Law is neither defined territorial priorities nor this Law under this third section, which also belongs to the domain of the Law believe or is not a law with a period of duration and therefore we rightly wonder when we are talking about measures for the economic recovery of the Government. Weak or almost no implementation of the measures, this law is on the trail, this law is like one property that does not make spring, and before Croatia there is a long cold winter, which will last another 2 years, and if there is a rabbit in that bush, my dear bunny could freeze. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61757	Thank you. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, Ms. Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61758	Thank you, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Independent Representatives' Club will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Procedures and Construction Conditions to encourage investment with the Final Bill. Among other things, because of its collokual name, which sends a very clear message, which is the 45-day Law, because it should have all the important documents obtained within 45 days, which certainly shows the government's willingness to try to capture the trends of the developed world in the part of the creation of the entrepreneurial climate. The amendment of the Law, although only one article is amended, extends the validity of the law on conduct and conditions of construction in order to encourage investment to 2 years, so by 31 December 2012, it is necessary to work on other amendments, and we all understand that the crisis, at least it will not go away in a year or two, but from somewhere it needs to go, it is necessary to work on creating a friendly environment for investors. So this is one of the more important steps because it is clear that the capital that comes to the country is looking for a fast road, cheap road, otherwise it goes where it is better, and we have started to get over the capital, that it is closer to Albania, Kosovo, Montenegro. And it's safe when you talk to investors who skipped us or who were thinking about us, and went somewhere else, to discuss the speed of reaction of the administrative apparatus, as something that determines the country's attractiveness to invest. I'm sure it's not the only prerequisite, but it's important. A number of the research we could also see from the World Bank has shown that the fast and effective state administration is among the first three reasons that investors cite as the most important in the decision to choose a destination for investment. We have to admit that the investor is also considering how many states the rule of law is coming into, and that just in the field of fighting corruption on this one is really doing a lot, I don't think anyone can deny us. Of course, it is an important and tax policy, that spatial plans are important, but also important and adequately educated labour. We do not think that Croatia should seek to offer the cheapest workforce, that is, among other things, impossible. We can't be that cheaper than China or some of the countries in our neighborhood. But that's why we can offer adequately educated labour, ready for more sophisticated jobs and better paid jobs. And that's how our priorities should be determined. Unfortunately, now numerous examples of unrealised or out of the time frame have been realised by investment ventures that have braked or even blocked the slowness in issuing licences. Of which, a large part of the building permits. What can we do besides adopt this law? I spoke to the secretary of state a little while ago, and I need to see if it can be done to make this change or to work on some new amendment to the law. Therefore, other than in the time extension, the definition of investment terms should also be considered. Because if we leave a definition like this, it can happen that our investment equally covers us, for example. Building a kiosk or building a factory. Perhaps we should speak more clearly on that term. Therefore, the law should be fully aligned with the Investment Encouragement Act in such a way as to give priority to investments that can significantly improve the local community in which investments are planned. Thus, in the Law on the Encouragement of Investments in the Current One, we have a minimum equivalent amount of EUR 300 000, which gives rise to the right to encourage the Investment Encouragement Act, as well as a legitimate investment cost which defines acceptable categories of material and immaterial investment. So in these changes and additions define the lower threshold of investment. This would also define investment policy priorities, relieve the county, urban and municipal offices of business in issuing permits for facilities that will not significantly contribute to the development of the environment in which they are built and would provide one of the preconditions for the implementation of out-of-stop shop access for procedures and after registration of the company. With the fact that I have to tell the outside shop that I don't mean the office, but I'm thinking about access. So, not on secretaries, drivers, offices, but on the availability of those who come to invest in Croatia. Clearly, work is needed on the entire capital attraction system, because a fast and high-quality project is certainly the best advertising. The priority should therefore be to increase investment, to speed up the process for investors who create surplus values, so for those who are certainly not trade chains. And the best deadline is then a fast deadline. Perhaps you should consider creating this system and amending the Foreign Law that some countries of our environment have already made. Entrepreneurial climate today, I'm sure we'll all agree, is not the best. We need to change it, we need to make it together. The fact is, this is one of the first steps, not enough but certainly the first. So I could maybe make a joke and tell my colleague Bernardiæ, but it's only one owner, but it's a good thing she came too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61759	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61760	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have yet another measure of economic recovery for the Republic of Croatia. Speaking of the very name of this Law amending the law, on the conduct and conditions of construction in order to encourage investment, with the Final Bill, I would have to point out here that even a little wider approach to this topic. Namely, I have received complaints or notifications from our citizens from the field that they receive as part of the reconstruction and construction in areas of special care, so local self-government units are perfectly safe and relevant that the building material they receive for the construction of buildings is delivered from distributors who have signed a contract with the Ministry of Regional Development. So distributors distribute goods, construction material that has origins clearly declared on the product from Republika Srpska, so-called. Republika Srpska, from Vojvodina, Serbia or other parts and parts of the former Yugoslavia. Given that it is safe to say that the decline in the construction industry and construction production in Croatia is about 20%, I am interested, although perhaps your ministry is not responsible for what way and how it can happen at all, that although the construction industry of the Republic of Croatia records losses and decreases in production, that the scrap, cement and other technical materials for renovation in areas of special state care, especially in Slavonia, I know for sure and sure, comes from these parts. Second. As part of this problem itself, the acceleration of capital flow, i.e. Encouraging reduced direct investment in the area of construction, which is to be achieved by enabling the start of construction of significant buildings within a shorter period of time, i.e. within 45 days, I am aware of and aware of the case in which there are several problems in the town of Slavonski Brod that have not been solved, precisely the basis of this law which entered into force on 25 June 2009 and which remains in the ministry, and the local self-government is being balled, so the city of Slavonski Brod, Department of Construction and Ministry, your ministry. And that's how it's been for months, standing an investment worth, let's say, I know it's reliable, and I'll tell you what it's about and who it's about, is an investment worth 2 million kuna. There is a crane in the yard, but it does not move or there are workers who should build a business-building facility that would also fall under this legislative proposal. Your material states that under Article 40 of the Law, the Ministry has concluded agreements to provide professional assistance with all the counties and the City of Zagreb, except for Koprivnica and Križevci County. Isn't that one legal or specific or don't I know how to polypragma? As we are, all the counties have made an agreement, one is not. Even with all the big cities, 20 of them are written here, except for Rijeka, Sisak, Varazdin and Samobor. Now you, Mr. Secretary of State, have said here the analysis we received on the assembly benches about the demands that have arrived at your ministry, so there are 811, 45 of them have given up, 427 solutions have been issued, or the solution is 55.7%, rejected, rejected 186 requests or 24%, and in the process of resolving 153 demands. That's one thing I would say would be dry analysis, so one efficiency, the effectiveness of solving these problems that have reached the ministry or at the time of the local self-government ministry. However, I would also like to see an analysis of those who have not signed or who are not listed exactly in the agreement on providing professional assistance, so an analysis with the same data, so on resolving and issuing a solution to the construction, discarding or further process of resolution precisely in those units that have not signed an agreement on providing professional assistance to the ministry, which is Koprivnica-Kryzevac County, as well as cities of Rijeka, Sisak, Varazdin and Samobor. If we were to compare these two analyses then we would have just learned what was more effective, who was right, that by signing this agreement there was efficiency in solving the building problem or local self-government was more effective, more effective in solving problems in connection with this issue in its area, so precisely in these 5 units. One regional self-government I have already said which and these four cities of Rijeka, Sisak, Varazdin and Samobor. It is true that someone here said that for accelerated investments they were in production plants, whether for residential or other purposes more important spatial plans and then documents lower levels that rely on the spatial plans of units of local self-government and regional self-government. It's also important, and we're already working this out, it seems to me for a long time, so we're sorting out the land-book department and determining the property-law situation on the ground. Unfortunately, it seems to me that still when we take and when we want to get a particle or anything via the Internet, it is not possible for all or all of the Republic of Croatia, for all units of local self-government and regional self-government. Although Europe seems to me in agreement with the Republic of Croatia, it has also invested resources to address this problem before entering the European Union. It is also true that the only change in this law that came into force on 25 June 2009 extends the period of validity or the period of duration of this law, the special law, until 2013, although it is here as if it were bought shoes and is 499 kuna, and not 500, it is written here on 31 December 2012, I guess it works better in 2012, since 2013, but in fact it is 2013. And another question, are we going to pass a new law at the end of 2012, which will extend the validity of this special law to some kind of 2015, I am not convinced that we will not. In view of the fact that the only change is actually in the date until when the law on the conduct and conditions of construction is in force, in order to encourage investment, and as part of the economic recovery measures, only the extension of the validity of this law. There are no other changes, all other provisions are contained and do not change. The HDSSB club can hardly take any positive or negative position and we think there are much, much more important, more life-saving measures to help economic recovery or speed up the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia and we will remain restrained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61761	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61762	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Parliament. This law here today came into force on 25.6.2009, so it was already one period of crisis that we did not recognise ourselves, but it was more than evident. It was seven days before Sanader gave or offered or resigned or escaped more precisely. It was a time when construction was seen before collapse, only in 2009 were those contents, those projects, those buildings that started to build in 2007, 2008 and there was a time when the investments definitely died in Croatia. One word, one moment of sobering, a definitive confirmation that the black days were coming when it came to construction, and it was clear to all of us that it would be even worse when it came to domestics, whether it was foreign investments. That's what we all saw back then, that's what we all see today, and only this government doesn't want to admit to itself. As far as this Act of Conduct is concerned and the conditions of construction are concerned, in order to encourage investment as it is called or as it bears the title of this law, I will say quite openly praiseworthyly. The law is all if I am not a fraud, and these deadlines now from 2010 to 2012 should be extended in my court and for the period after 2012, perhaps all there by 2015. So I said there's no dilemma this law is good. But what we value is that we have a relatively correct law when we no longer have investments whether it's domestic, whether it's foreign means investment or investors. It's also good that there are assumptions that if someone submits a request for construction, let's call them so-called larger objects that they need it, it doesn't matter whether it's positive or negatively solved within 45 days. That's great. I'd say we've been waiting for something like that, so I dare say from what I know in '95 when the war is here, it's de facto over. It would clearly be worth it, and it would be worth it, that 45-day period for both domestic and foreign natural and legal persons. But as I said, what we will do when there are no more investment requirements in the Republic of Croatia, and that is our key problem. The investment was first driven by the ruling policy from the Republic of Croatia. It doesn't matter who was in power that I dare say did business for tycoons or policies that, meaning opposition policy that was trying to raise itself on some projects, to destroy the credibility of those who are in power. After that, the credibility of any project was destroyed by the media, so let's be against the golf course, so let's be against the highway, so let's be against any industry and any other hotel. And what politics and the media failed to bring down, which the opposition failed to bring down at any local level, whether at the state level, would then be torn down by NGOs that are again funded from the budget or financed by foreigners or financed by Croatian tycoons. Just to say that the state budget for the financing of associations in this year provides a figure of about 600 million kuna. Let's say for political parties somewhere around 120 million kuna. Now, after this introduction, where are we today? About six months ago, the Croatian government issued a list of 30 investments of nearly 14 billion euros. And everyone when we saw it, when we took off those investments, we just laughed at it because we know that from that catalogue, we call them beautiful desires, it's just not going to be anything. What are those investments? One stolen Elektroprivreda should invest about 4.27, 4.3 means billions of euros in some projects in the area, pardon 3.8 billion. The highest investment is in the area of transport infrastructure, 3 projects totalling 4.3 billion euros. At the same time, the single highest value is the project of the railway line Rijeka – Karlovac, Zagreb – Koprivnica – Botovo with an investment estimate of 3.7 billion kuna. Where a railroad will get that money. Who's gonna lend this bankrupt country that kind of money? The list includes the construction of a new passenger terminal in Zagreb airport with 302m euros as well as the Peljesac Bridge with a planned investment of 320m euros. First, the Croatian highways or roads cannot build the one below, in my opinion an unnecessary bridge, and the City of Zagreb with Velika Gorica cannot invest 320m euros in the airport. There's a Plomin thermal power plant. Well, that's a little different. Then the oil terminal in Kaštel Sucurc, and what I know, Brijuni Riviera, we'll see what can even be honest about it. So then there are some projects called Prelug on the Kvarner coast, etc. etc. The only thing I'm really saying over a period of four or five years can be realized is that thermopower plant Plomin on coal. This is the value of an investment of one billion euros, but I hope that the government will not get into it without a local referendum previously implemented. A hydropower plant near Dubrovnik is mentioned, but relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro need to be resolved. Something Bui could build in Istria, a couple of hotels could be built for real. And that's all you gentlemen can or can insist on when it comes to building in the next few years. In one word until the climate changes, whether it's political, media, opposition or not, we're the opposition today, there'll be another tomorrow. In Croatia almost no positive shift or content can occur. We were unable to withdraw either 10 billion kuna or a billion euros and 500 million euros from the Croatian National Bank. So domestic banking institutions, let alone withdraw the relevant capital for these contents from these thirty projects without Croatia entering the European Union, for example. But that's why we're going to be a clear waste of dignity. Do you know how long it would take for any of these projects to be realized? Well, at least five, six, seven, maybe more years. In order for you to build, I don't know that the Plomin thermal power plant needs a referendum first. It's an IDS request, and if it's a positive decision, it takes you at least three years to make a project documentation, and then it takes you another three, four years to build one of these. So, to spend that billion euros, it takes at least seven, eight years. I only took one example. To just apostrophe the need to, when you think about it, and that's the finished thing already seems in this country that one such content should not be built without a local referendum. I said any project could be realised for us it takes two, three years to design, look for documentation, solve property-legal issues, and then let's say two years or three years of construction. Does Croatia have one project prepared at this time? So clearly there is no way in Croatia that any project can, and even of these 30 that the government has proposed, receive the support of all? He can't. Maybe the airport in Zagreb can do that and that's all, the railroad, but where we're going to find 4.5 billion euros for the railroad. We've been driven away, there's no Mr. Maric here who's constantly replicating me when I say it, at least 5.6 billion euros in the last 7.8 years. We expelled one billion euros in investment from the Istrian County, that's true. How many new hotels have gentlemen been built on the Adriatic for the last 20 years. Let's let go of those reconstructions. It will no longer be due to the decline of profits in the hotel sector or reconstruction, let alone new hotels. I claim that in 20 years we have not reached 20 new hotels in Croatia. We didn't. Maybe 10. And we fool ourselves all the time with land prices, the value of the facility, and all these hotel systems are almost in front of bankruptcy, instead of creating such a climate that something is starting to happen. It's in Istria in the last 20 years, let's go again and I'll say reconstructions, four new hotels, five of them in construction, and one tourist resort. The one under the quote rotted Tito's time from '65 to '85. Well, only in Istria was built 70, 80, and maybe more hotels, and the same was along the Adriatic coast, and we say it wasn't right. Now this is good. But let's let it go now. At one Pula, no new hotel. In one valley, no new hotel. In one Rapco, maybe now something's being built, one. In a 40-year-old Poreč, 50 hotels, none of them built a new hotel in 20 years, except for small investors. In Vrsar nothing, a hotel is built in Rovinj, Hypo bank has built a settlement, a hotel in Novigrad, etc., in Novi Vinodolski, etc. Some tycoons over the media that are called, so the media, the independents, they tear down every step if it's not in their favor, and then it's no wonder we're simply without investment, and if we're without investment, then we're almost in front of bankruptcy. Neither can Croatia launch our tycoons nor the state, so those who brought us into it can. Now look, gentlemen, how the Croatian construction was moving from 2002 to here. Construction dragged the entire economy, especially between 2005, 2006 and 2009. Today it's the same construction on your knees, but let's bear in mind the fact that 200 thousand people work in that branch. In 2002 18 thousand and 47 apartments were completed in Croatia, 2003. 18 thousand 460 apartments, 2004. 18 thousand 763 apartments, 2005. 19 thousand 995 apartments, and then there's boom, 2006. 22 thousand 121 apartments, 2007. 25 thousand 609 apartments, 2008. 25 thousand 368 apartments, 2006. 18 thousand 740, and in 2010, I'm afraid 10 thousand apartments will not be completed in Croatia. In one word, we must face a broken system. I'm afraid because of the lack of revenue in the budget, I don't know what to do with the introduction of the tax on property, which will end not the rich, but the poor. Be careful in Germany only 4 Germans out of 10 are owners of apartments or holiday houses, and in Croatia 9.2 citizens have, so on 10 citizens 9.2 we have apartment. See, that's what I'm talking about, that rotten time that built 400,000 apartments, which was in '91, '92. simply sold, so for one value bathroom could buy an apartment of 100 square meters in Ilica, or in Poreč by the sea, or in Opatija, whatever. In September 2009, according to the State Statistics Office, we had a million 557 thousand 514 employees, and according to that same Bureau of Statistics in September 2010, we have a million 440 thousand 603 employees, or in that year Croatia lost 116 thousand 911 jobs, according to data from the State Statistics Office, so let's see how many of those 116 thousand 911 dropped out of construction. So I'm going to say it one more time, and I'm going to end it, and I see it's red, this law is absolutely correct, but it was already late in 2009. If only we had it in 2000 or '95, that's the law we should have meant a long time ago, and I think it would be good to extend it to at least 2015. So the law is good, we'll support the law, but I think we should accept the amendment to keep the law in place until 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61763	Thank you. We've just run out of time to report 10 minutes in 10 and 41 minutes. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61764	Mr. President, if I'm not mistaken, I think I heard very well that Mr. Cain said in his report on the situation in Croatia that the Peljesac Bridge is unnecessary. I want to make it right. I think Mr. Caine is very selfish. We from the Croatian south always look forward to every project in the Croatian state, and we are very glad that the Croatian state is developing. But you must know that in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, to this day, there is not one kilometer, but there is not a single meter of highway built, and on the Pelješac Bridge I do not need to elaborate here what it would mean for the development of Croatian South and Croatian islands. And I think that, multiple times, you've repeated that in this House since last year, I think it's very selfish of you in relation to the Croatian south.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61765	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61766	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to correct the incorrect quote of fellow Caine, who found that there are none at this time prepared a project in the Republic of Croatia. This is absolutely incorrect, the fact that the construction sector is facing a crisis, which is why we all agree, but colleague Caina makes this statement and your contribution to one bad investment business climate in the Republic of Croatia I will not go beyond Osijek. So at this point, a tender for the construction of the southern strip, the southern bypass of over 300 million kunas, has been completed. At this point, we expect the signing of an agreement with the EBRD on the continuation of the 5C corridor over a billion kunas is in play, etc. So I'm not going any further than Osijek, from various facilities of municipal infrastructure, plumbing, gas, sewage. Therefore, projects exist, otherwise competitions could not be announced and no agreements could be signed to close the financial structure. Therefore, your claim is absolutely incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61767	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61768	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting three incorrect allegations from my colleague Cain. First, if I wasn't here. I'm a colleague of Caine's. You didn't get a good look. Others, unsold apartments are the cause of the construction crisis, and the government is responsible for it. When it comes to unsold apartments, then it should be kept in mind 2 things: the economic crisis in general and the purchasing power of every potential buyer, but also unfavourable housing loans and, indeed, very high interest which really caused the sale of apartments. And third, that unnecessary bridge of Peljesac, which my colleague Shuica had already said. If you had just sat in a car this summer and gone to Dubrovnik, then you would never have said it. Because I don't think any citizen of the Republic of Croatia would want to go through their country to cross the border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61769	It can be done through Neum, and we won't do a job crash. About 116 grand, we won't talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61770	I'm sorry I'm sitting at this table because I'd have something to say about the Pelesian Bridge. It is a shame to dispute one project as if it were the cause of all possible evils and problems in the Republic of Croatia. It's real, man can't imagine. What kind of anger does that make people fall for that project? But here's what I took advantage of the opportunity to say that even though I may not have a strict right to do business.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61771	Well, maybe there's a president and other priority projects that are needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61772	We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61773	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The law on the handling and conditions of construction in order to encourage investment was adopted in mid-2009 as one of the 10 anti-recession measures. Therefore, the measure under number 7 as part of the promotion of direct investment and technology transfer. The law is now popularly called "all in 45 days". The law also found its place in the programme of economic recovery of the government of the Republic of Croatia from April this year and the part relating to the contribution to economic recovery. It accurately defines the consistent application of the Act of Conduct and Construction Conditions in order to encourage investment and the second establishment of a special Office for Coordination, Acceleration and Control of Authorisation and Authorisation for All-increased Investments with the Minister at Head. Namely, after these kind of cca 13 months and the numerical indicators shown in the proposal for this law speak of the role of this law in the recovery of the economy. As pointed out above, therefore, 427 solutions have been issued based on 766 valid requirements, i.e. we can say that about 56% of requests have been positively resolved. If this is a large number, what is this number, whether we are satisfied with it, I think we should absolutely analyse it in the context of the most severe crisis and in the context where investments in the world's most developed countries have fallen by 41% in this period. It should also be said when it comes to foreign investment in the Republic of Croatia that we cannot be satisfied with that structure, so somewhere in '93. And '94. We've had about 85% of total investment in industry and construction, and unfortunately here's where the total number of approximately 4.1 billion when we put in some relative relationships we see that the most there are are financial services, banks, telecommunications, and that this part around industry and construction came to 20%. All of this is actually in favour of the application of this law and it is certainly to welcome its extension, i.e. an extension of the period of application by 2 years. When talking about the competitiveness of the Croatian economy very often as a synonym to slow down development, to slow down investment, to slow down investment when the general problem of competitiveness is mentioned red tape, too much administration, several months waiting for documents, etc., and therefore this law is extremely important and extremely encouraging. All these major investments are guaranteed to be resolved within 45 days and are also guaranteed that if the units of local self-government, or their offices do not perform any of the stages in the process of issuing documents means they can react to the ministry and will be sanctioned, the ministry will complete the documentation and all this will go to the expense of the unit of local self-government. This is exactly what it says is that the greatest advantage of this law is so-called. "all in 45 days" the law, to prevent corruption, to prevent excessive red tape, to speed up investment, and I believe that the Republic of Croatia should have much more laws like this that promote efficiency. Very often we have the case that citizens or investors are victims of administration and various discretionary assessments, as well as of the goodwill of people who work to issue different permits. It is certain that the climate has changed, it is certain that our laws are better and more flowful, but we still have a large amount in terms of interpretation and enforcement of the law of discretionary assessment at lower levels, so people who can, officials who can process and complicate and who can slow it down. Clearly, such a situation is a source of bribery and corruption. That is why this law also plays a role in encouraging investment and investment, but also in its anti-corruption activities because the investor can no longer become a victim of red tape, small local political games, or an object of bribery. Because at that stage where local self-government doesn't do its job, the ministry jumps in and the whole job ends in 45 days. There was a good comment on this law when it went into effect in one media. So this is a law that will prevent investor blackmail. He's really like that, too. The adoption of this law enables the construction of the buildings in question, rather than on the basis of 2 acts, hence the locational permits and confirmations of the main project, so building on the basis of one act – the building solution, and whose deadline is significantly shorter than the deadlines for these previous 2 documents. And so actually, instead of 2 procedures, one for issuing a local permit and the other for confirming the main project here is only one procedure. I also think that a good indicator and the structure of investments analysed by the basis of this Act, so 24% for housing, 26% for business facilities, 3.6% for catering, 9.1%) for commercial and 31.2% for infrastructures, therefore, if we look at things in that narrow sense, so housing, infrastructure, etc., so it takes an important place and we believe that this law is important for the implementation of all those anti-recession measures and for raising economic activities in the Republic of Croatia. I also see not a colleague Bernardic here, what he remarked that this law has no territorial access, that territorial component. It was time for a pen to move on paper to determine where anything would be built, where it would be Obrovac or some other investment. So this is not an act of the planning economy, but this is an incentive framework for investment and stimulating economic development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61774	Thank you. Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61775	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, I want to support these amendments to the law. It is obvious that, as we have already heard more times this morning, this Law sends a message that it is about creating an entrepreneurial climate and that it is about the state being faster and more efficient. It's not the state. It's the state's administration. It's both local and regional. So, it's necessary to extend this deadline, we passed the 2009 Law in June, obviously within the framework of the anti-recession programme. This law is included... So here, in any case, I support this Act, which was adopted in June 2009, its extension and duration until 2012, was one good anti-recession measure, the government included it in the economic recovery programme, in a way that two of its components were taken into account, one is the consistent application of this Act and the other is the formation of a commission to adopt these documents headed by the minister. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] What I was thinking about in time when I listen to all these discussions is that perhaps in the future this law should be incorporated into the basic law because there is no reason why the basic law does not have this provision to be resolved within 45 days or in 45 days. The fact that it refers only to those facilities which are investment facilities, not family houses, or those which needed both local and construction permits or confirmation of the main project. He allows the investor to prepare well, hand over all documents and receive a major confirmation on the main project for 45 days. But we know that's not the case, we heard today, it says in these materials, and we heard from the secretary of state that only 54% of the case has been resolved within 45 days. We have to ask ourselves why that is. Experience has shown that the problem is an insufficient number of employees, especially the insufficient number of architecture and building engineers, there are in Croatia, but they are not paid enough, they prefer to work in architectural offices. Then you have this further circle, architectural bureaus, few of them who have a license to work on making spatial plans, general urban plans, urban planning arrangements and detailed ones. So it's a vicious circle, at the same time only some offices have the right to work on these plans and they can report to competitions organised by units of local administrations and self-government, and here again you have a problem that you don't want to work in offices of any county, whether the city's pay is not enough, have a much higher salary in offices architectural. So this is a topic perhaps needed by the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Economy, it should perhaps be more broadly considered, which is why this reduced issue of documents is taking place. You mentioned, I'd like to ask you Mr. Secretary of State, you mentioned the Dubrovnik-Neretva County and you said no document was issued within 45 days. I do not believe that in Dubrovnik-Neretva County officials are not sufficiently trained, and that they do not have knowledge, nor do I believe that no project, or any document, has been produced, that there is no interest in investment. You've been asking us to present it here. The question is either bad service, which I do not believe or the projectors have submitted documentation that is not complete or has no spatial plans, better said units of local administration and self-government have not brought the plans of the lower order which Mr. Bačić spoke about earlier, spatial plans, that is a very complex question, this material is simple because it is only about changing an article and you have statistically listed this here and this statistics should probably direct us to some research. And to the change of some laws and to the whole change. That's what I get after reading this material. You said that the Ministry made an agreement with almost all cities, you mentioned some that didn't and one county that didn't want to, and at the same time we heard here from a club, that a state that didn't make it, so I guess this state is trying to decentralisation, and we've already been very successful, the very fact that building permits are now being issued in large cities, the centers of the county, is proof that the state has decentralisedd that function. So if we're in favour of regional development, he was just a representative of the club that advocates regions, then what there is, which is a problem in the state, and the county, the cities want to themselves, feel capable enough and have enough elements to issue their own permits. Two basic problems in my opinion are apart from the lack of official or professional persons, are property-legal relations it is definitely. But that's not the problem of this country or the last year, not two, not three, not in the 1990s, it's the problem of decades when property-legal relations haven't been solved, we haven't had a well-ordered cadastre and a harmonised cadastre with the landowner, and that's a big problem. But the Croatian state is working on it and we know that 300 catastrian municipalities are currently in the process, and many can say they have already finished and currently are in the process of harmonising landowners and catastras. And you're saying here that 55 investors didn't have the proof that they had the right to build, and that evidence is probably property-legal relations and they're a key problem in issuing these documents. And another big problem for me is the end of the plans. All municipalities and cities have their own spatial plans, GUPs and all counties. However, there is a lot of fragmentation in these urban planning arrangements and detailed plans. And that problem is particularly expressed on the coast. At first we had protection of the coastal belt, and later the protection of the coastal belt entered into the very Construction Act and these plans are very slow to come by. I can't say that the problem is in the municipal and city councils, they'll certainly raise their hands for a plan that's been made professionally. The problem is also in the long-term procedure, but another problem is financing these plans. Small municipalities and cities cannot finance all these plans on their own, if they engage in financing together with investors, then threaten to be corrupt in some way or at least be open to it. So there's not enough money in the budget to finance the plans, that's one thing, and the other doesn't have enough to say at first, the licensed design architectural bureaus that can make these plans. And third, of course we have to respect the Public Procurement Act. The procurement takes as long as we already know 70 days, two months, so three people complain, so I did that process to start the plan sometimes takes six months. So without a year, a year and a half, you can't bring a spatial or urban planning. Some cities, for example, Dubrovnik has the city itself his GUP has predicted 35 UPUs and DPUs. So no one can get a license until that plan is passed. And you can't have 35 plans at the same time. So I use this debate to encourage maybe thinking about speeding up the process of making these plans because they need the consent of all ministries that are okay and all of this serves to preserve the coastal belt, all of it serves sustainable development. Here these days we were at the Parliament of the Mediterranean Assembly in Rabat in Morocco where one information was given that if this continued trend in the Mediterranean, and the Mediterranean were these southern countries, from Maghreb countries to these countries of North Africa and all of ours, if such a trend of construction continued with or without plans such as in some developed countries, by 2025 50% of the Mediterranean coast would be concreteized. So that must make us think. That's why on the one hand it's good to take it slow and think about it longer, and at the same time it stops us from investing and brings us into the situation we heard about this morning several times. This is a very serious topic that we may not be able to do this, perhaps it would be a good one round table to be organised by a council of parliament that on this little bit we all get involved together and contribute to the trend of economic recovery in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61776	Thank you. We have one replica. Mr. Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61777	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleagues, Dubravka, I'm replicating you because I first see that you understand this problem unlike some who spoke for the clubs, and their performance shows that they were probably never in the process of issuing a building permit, nor were they looking for it, let alone getting it. You referred to it as a complex issue of major concern. I'd just supplement what's still bothering the investors. They're tortured by neighbors very often, which isn't defined by law, and they're tortured by notes. Neighbouring because nowhere in the world, and it seems to me only in this area with us and around us, although everything by law is being built and planned, the neighbor can at any moment slow down building by putting up objections, because they are asking for consent from neighbours. I really don't see why you're looking for it. The same note is today, everyone in Croatia can still make a note of your house, although there is no contact with you or any legal basis for it. And then it slows down the investment. How to get rid of the note, if, for example, the former owner of some property that entered the underlying capital after the conversion, sold to a natural person, the former owner puts a note on that property or on that property, and no one can invest and start building on that land for 15 years, because the former owner sues the state and not the current owner. The current owner has invested in real estate and cannot continue to invest because no credit will be granted by the bank on the basis of the land-book excerpt on which the note is made. As for the observations that the new law should regulate what investment is and define, I would point out that investment is an economic category and not a legal one, and that from this aspect of the individual’s investment and purchase of a cottage and car from an economic point of view, it is not investment, but investment in production and services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61778	Thank you. Mrs. Dubravka Shuica's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61779	Obviously, this problem requires discussion. I'm sure the investors have a lot of brakes. As far as the neighbors are concerned, as far as I'm aware, I believe the secretary of state is going to say something about it, that something is now a little bit liberalized in law, and I think it's going differently and easier with the neighbors. So they have some deadlines and then they can't stop the project until they're unconscious. As far as the notes are concerned, it's a legal problem that I can't speak to in more detail, but I'm sure it should be resolved. But when it comes to investment just before Mrs. Adlesic spoke, whether it's a kiosk or a investment factory, and everything is an investment in my opinion, so it's just a question of how the law treats it. But I think investment is everything. Investment is when you buy a bike and you decide to rent it. It's in the free market I think that's how it's treated.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61780	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61781	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is a very interesting topic in which I am personally and I find myself very often in a patient form, which means that I am silent about all the negative aspects of what is in the legislative procedure, i.e. better said practice. But for the same reasons I would say immediately at the beginning that I am very supportive of this law, I support the fact that this law was once passed, I support the fact that the proposal is being extended, that it continues until '12. The year, of course, I also support it until '15. or I would suggest that this law of the leg of the specialis become a day-to-day practice so that there is no need and at all the existence of such a law because this law has been adopted as a temporary measure so that, in the circumstances in which we have found ourselves, at least for certain investments, at least some things could be launched a little faster, better and more useful not only for individual investors but also for the budget of the Republic of Croatia. I am so surprised that such a benign, well-intentioned subject on the table of today's debate gets some political connotations, and often it seems to me as often as it is today that simply in the Assembly, some but almost no topic should be discussed because a more or less-than-permanent election campaign knows that it will be voted on, so in this sense, Parliament represents only one possibility for someone on TV to see you and introduce yourself with one practically electoral, permanent election campaign claiming that you are right and not the other. Because how else to interpret that something that represents value and is unanimously adopted on the board, so between the opposition and the position it adopts as good, in the parliamentary debate it gets a different character. Is this a two-faced attitude, the diversity of the individuals who talk about it, but in any case, there is not a good intention from which a good one should come out for Croatia but rather an intention from which it should come out well for me or for my party. Following and listening to these discussions because the topic is close to me, I am engaged in it, I have listened carefully to my colleague Caina, I have not raised him up for either the replica or the correction of the wrong quote, although very often his discussions on any topic are about the same story and the same examples, the same things, but at least in his speech sometimes I can find things that are worth remembering and recording, which does not mean that another time he will not talk about the same things in a different context. Today I have registered several important ones, for me it is not important for the debate, but I have registered something that seems to me to be a political blindness when we mention again the Peljesac bridge story because, in my opinion, the bridge on Peljesac is a matter of peaceful reintegration of Croatia. This part of Croatia is not yet reintegrated, and it will not be reintegrated until it is physically unrelated and therefore it seems to me that it has one political dimension because when we talked about the reintegration of Croatia as a whole we did not talk about economic categories and integration but political, national, pride, authority and everything that makes me feel like a citizen of this country and in this country I want to be. So I read this as some kind of political blindness, if you let me show it like that because the debate on the Pelješke Bridge can have an economic problem but it has absolutely, but it can't, but it has a political dimension that I think would be time to stop discussing in the Assembly, and at expert meetings we can discuss how to ensure this political topic and economics in realisation. What seems important to me and what has been said several times, so I would say it again, reads a lot of good in this law. They also read things that don't work. The very fact that this law exists shows that many things don't work. So, just for a quick mention of things that are good because they're also the basis for solving this. It is that finally Croatia is almost covered in whole spatial plans, that spatial plans open up the possibility of drawing up all plans of the lower order, detailed plans, plans of the arrangement, but it can also be read that spatial plans have made so many obligations to develop detailed and urban plans that the ministry has not imposed, but the spatial planners have brought themselves without being coerced. The Ministry, interpreting the spatial plans adopted, can only act on them. Why don't local self-government units agree to do it one more rational way, that's another story. However, the legal problem of the status of the catastra, the status of the landowner, their mutual harmony, the notes spoken of by his colleague Goran Maric, is not here now either, are also the points I have written here. They are something that makes the application of this law not good, and that is something why this law too had to be passed in order to force certain things, but of course for investments that represent much greater amounts and which in this sense are perceived as more politically important, economically much more important for budgeting than small and other objects. The neighbor's question was misrepresented by counterpart Maric. The fact is that neighbors complain and complain, but by redefining the law, we said that neighbors plead, not agree. So these two categories differ significantly when the neighbor is the one who is always in the process, but his opinion is not relevant because often it was the character of blackmail for someone to get his consent, but rather the statements and responsible bodies to judge it forward. What is most painful for me as a condition, and not as a question of this law, which is that this law, or analysis of the application of this law, has shown, what counterpart Shuica also pointed out, has shown that some things are very important to discuss in the follow-up of this law. Among other things, the fact that all the figures presented by his colleague Mrduljaš in his presentation and explanation of everything suggests that this success analysis was carried out with 49 competent administrative authorities with the authority to issue individual acts in the field of spatial planning and construction, I did well quote. Which means that 49 different bodies are in a certain way in the paper issue process so that we can build involved. Now the question is how competent all these people are, how much they can be sublimed into something else, etc. Our mechanism is complicated to discuss, and therefore the attempt by this law at least wanted to provoke that some things are proven to be resolved within 45 days, that the ministry is at its disposal, that the ministry takes the obligation to resolve what at local level cannot be resolved if the case has been processed as it should have been handled, and the problem not of this law, but the problem of the system which Croatia has to have is not prepared to profit from what the law tells them, prepared in such a way that they can be processed in a 45-day law promoted forward. These are questions that we are meeting permanently, where we meet both the State's Attorney's Office and the Catastre and the landowner and the individual referent. But the important thing in the end would only add what my neighbor Kovacevic said, that is, to point out what my neighbour here said. The fact is that this law is at least one of those who is in the way of possible corruption, possibly negligence, possibly unprofessionalism, taking responsibility by the ministry for them to solve what is not at lower levels. Is there anything else you wanted to mention to me? So, if we were to discuss these topics in the Assembly in a way of professional problems, we would present all the suggestions and attitudes that we should meet, I believe that much would be better if we were not just discussing ourselves in the context of political connotations if you were in favour, and then I am against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61782	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr. Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61783	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here I will use it to give the replica to Mr. Roshin as he is the most professional man in the Croatian Parliament and since he is the only architect in our Parliament. I'm glad Mr. Roshin supports this law, and I personally support it. But I would like to conclude and I will read today we are discussing the handling and conditions of construction to encourage investment. When this law came to the Parliament, it means it was necessary to correct the system that has worked so far. And all of this that colleagues have previously listed how long it takes for a single file to be collected, how long it takes for a single file to be approved in the municipalities. We know that, or offices for spatial planning, we know how many municipalities we have and how many spatial plans we have. We have seven, eight municipalities on some islands. Each has its own spatial plan, each state for itself regardless of the county plan. We all get the impression that the county plan is something big. No! No! The municipal plan is important and what he prescribes will be so. I'd say there's a big problem in the catastro. In order for one country you bought to be successful in the cadastre to be enrolled today, I would say 10 to 12 months. By the time you do the elaborates, geodetics, etc. While two, three times they refuse you because you didn't sign something banal means it lasts for a year. Until after that, you put it in the garter room so we can just go to the space office. It's taking too long. So when we pass laws like this, we can find out that the system didn't work properly and I would ask Mr. Roshin a question why this law wouldn't be made for less investment. That would make it easier for people who build family homes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61784	Thank you. Mr. Jerko Roshin's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61785	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, you have highlighted all the painful points of all these individual investors, the big ones, because the big ones are small, and the small ones are very small, so that's why the problem with the number of people facing this problem is more pronounced at the level of small investments. Of course, this practice should be a practice in general. She should, in my debate I said that the law should cease to exist and become a daily practice. But what you've newly pointed out is what I haven't said or never mentioned in that before, it's a matter of relationships to make spatial plans. Namely, the county spatial plan is absolutely in charge of all spatial plans at local level. This is not disputed and no spatial plan can be in conflict with the county spatial plan, provisions of the county spatial plan. It is only a question of whether certain municipalities are allowed to make spatial plans that do not realize what the law allows. So, if the law allows and the county spatial plan is made to make certain amounts of construction possible, it allows it to be more restrictive. But in some areas, some investors are threatened because they are not given the rights, i.e. the inability that the law has given them. It should be in the revision of these spatial plans, which is the category we need to discuss, whether or not the application of what the law has made possible whether or not citizens in some area are deprived of what the law allows them to do and nothing else. And that's the category that I'm permanently talking about missing the instrument of revision of spatial plans and of municipalities when councilmen raise their hands, when they raise their hands, none of them are qualified to understand what's going on. The city's plenary plans and others, the institution should be established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61786	Thank you. And the replica, Mrs. Representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61787	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's Mr. Roshin, I actually agree with a lot of elements with you. I agree that this is a bill that should not be politicised, and I agree that, as you say, it may be necessary even after 2012, to apply this law precisely for reasons to bring land and cadastrian books in line. Furthermore, as you say to me, all of us who worked in local self-government units know that the source is actually a complete space-planned documentation located in the spatial planning of the county. After that goes every plan, the spatial plan of the city's arrangements, and above all, urban planning and detailed planning of the arrangement are important. We also know that it is necessary to obtain 17 consents from state bodies, i.e. institutions, in order to even bring such a plan before, excuse the public debate. However, I would like to say, I have come to point out the actual importance of this law that ensures protection of investors' rights in the event of unfair public-law handling and sanctioning ineffective treatment, which I certainly hope will contribute to an even better investment climate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61788	Thank you. Mr. Jerko Roshin's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61789	Well, I can testify to you from the state of my suffering. One contest that was called on, the architectural competition at Croatia level, was called as the most famous at that time by Croatian architects, me and one colleague won the competition in '91. in the year, until today, this facility has not been realised because of property-legal relations, i.e. what my colleague was talking about before, and this is a matter of notes that have not been resolved so far, because it is not known whether the land is state, whether the land is municipal or those that were the original owners of that part. So that's one example. The second example is the contest I won in '96. The year, which was due to build 600 parking spaces in Split, has not yet been realised for reasons based on a suspicious decision on the right to build. And the most banal example, my personal example where we were supposed to take 5 cars off the road and put in our yard, for six years it took me to get a location permit, where it wasn't only the one who was supposed to give me that location permit, but the conditions for me to file a request, the unsettled state of the 1927 cadastre at the place where our house was still marked the road. It's not the law's fault, it's someone who didn't do it, of course. And now it's only that road that's been out there for 80 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61790	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Angelko Mihalic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61791	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is the Law on Conduct and Construction Conditions for Encouragement and Investment entered into force on 25 June 2009, and today we heard from discussions of my colleagues a series of good effects that he has brought, and I don't think there is any reason why this law today or Friday when we will vote on it not to support it, and to extend to 2012, and how some colleagues here have pointed out that it is being installed in a possibly permanent Construction Act. Namely, if the state has given local self-government units the opportunity to work on their own, create spatial plans, and I think it is one of the most important tasks of the units of local self-government, I think it also gave the possibility, therefore, in terms of the law and creativity of the people who run their municipalities, so if we have quality spatial plans, a high-quality situation in the grantine, a cadaster, and as counterpart Shuica told good designers who know how to read spatial plans and design them, there is no reason for this period of 45 days and at lower levels in the counties and cities to be disrespected. But well, colleague Roshin said well, this law has primarily made it impossible to be reluctant, or any other reason why quality projects and investments at lower levels are not issued, so the state took it under its authority, protection, and we heard today in figures what it means. But you see, the entrepreneurship climate that we are here today, many have said, this moment is not good, several times investments are less domestic, the sides of our country and surely we all need to work, and this law is just one of the laws that should be changed accordingly, so that investments can be made and that they are desirable for foreign investors again. Because let's say what to foreign investors, and I've been leading my community for many years and today I'm present with such conversations and jobs, what to tell the foreign investor when he asks the question, if we get a building permit, whether we can do certain works in accordance with that building permit, whether we're not going to have problems with you, then of course we're looking at ourselves miraculously, but when we remember what happened in the summer nobody here now mentioned in Warsaw Street what is being prepared or not in Dubrovnik, etc., that one group of people, I don't know who these groups of people are financing, and obviously someone has to finance them, because these people are not doing anything but lying on construction sites, underneath the truck, doing great damage to investors and contractors, and then, of course, when we all this group of people get together together and we've got this economic crisis that've been in the last two, three years, we've been around this sector, and we've had a lot of construction in the past seven years. To make it better, and it can be improved, because the state has done a lot of things, and it's not exactly like counterpart Cain said that the last 20 years have not done anything. Why don't hotels work in Istria, I don't know, but I specifically built a big zone in my community, where today it works over a thousand people, where it's invested over a billion kuna, and over the past 50 or 100 years, it hasn't been so much invested how much money is now invested. But apparently by the engagement of the people who ran that unit of local self-government, even if you want the city of Varazdin, we have three zones today, where four thousand people work and believe me it's invested far, far more than it's invested before, in the previous period. It was said here that it was all easier to work in Tito's time. So believe me, in Tito's time, it wasn't safe to deal with property-legal relations like today, when an investor is being blackmailed by everyone, when it's being asked that the investor not in Zagreb, in the lower, wider environment of Zagreb and thousands of euros, of course it needs to be expanded, and it's a sphere that enters the legislation, in the judiciary, that such things don't happen. I think it's one serious moment, because we've heard 200 thousand people work in construction. Construction is not a good situation at this time, in a good situation and believe me that this lack of investment that is obvious and visible, if it continues next year, will produce very bad effects in the entire Croatian economy sector. Here's what might be one thing, one thinking about this situation, and I say a great responsibility is to people who run units of local self-government and not have to wait for everything that the state will do, the state has made legal frameworks for many units of local self-government, the land that they should bring to their ends and where economic activities should take place. There are good examples where it works, and it's not exactly a situation where nothing is wrong. We are here to create these legal frameworks so that even future investors who are preparing and preparing to come back to Croatia, continue their investments here that some have even stopped. However, here I have to say inexplicable is why when real estate fairs, Europe's 3 biggest fairs are in Munich, Vienna and Cannes, I don't know why Croatia was not present this time. I've been to this fair where Europe is seen to have come out of crisis, a lot of projects are on offer, and the countries in our neighborhood have been present. I think that Croatia has always been present at such fairs, that we have a lot of quality projects, and what the government has done before me, Mr. Cain, so the catastre of these huge investments, I don't think they're free of desire, that we should move if we're going to move sooner and we're going to make such investments real. I am not jealous of the fact that there are numerous investments in both southern Croatia and Istria, there is not a single investment in northwestern Croatia, and that does not mean that we will not join it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61792	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Representative, Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61793	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague, Mihalić, has just asked me to report for the replica. By reading this law, I found this place where I came from and a project actually offered by investors to build an American school in Bezovica itself. A project that is very important for this area because Bezovica as an integral part of the City of Zagreb has been neglected for years for such investment projects. Why and for what? I will say this right away, and this will disable this law that we are discussing today in the Croatian Parliament, precisely because the City of Zagreb does not do for that reason why it simply believes that this project is not needed by Brezovici. In this project for a number of years we have proposed it, we simply have the insight that some forms of corruption are emerging, and primarily the inaction of the competent services in the City of Zagreb to issue the necessary permits to start construction. In fact, this American school would be an open-minded type as it was both presented and normal at a public hearing accepted by all the residents of Bezovica. Open type di would be built both kindergartens and school institutions from primary to secondary education. This is absolutely necessary for Brezovica and I welcome the adoption of this law because it will make it impossible for the City of Zagreb not to issue a permit in time i.e. they will have to issue these necessary permits which are very important that the construction of that investment begins as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61794	Well, here's my short answer. So the basis of that is certainly spatial-planned documentation, but also what was said here today at lower levels might and might exist in some kind of political confrontation, and to avoid it here this law is therefore welcome. Well, I think given what my colleague Bozica Šolić said here, there must be conditions for this investment to be realised in Zagreb, but I say once again, the basis of all the spatial and plan documentation. And there are environments, municipalities and cities that may have changed twice over the past 10 or 15 years, i.e. made changes and added spatial plans, because trust me with this swing that went on Croatia was difficult to predict 10 years ago which is going to happen today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61795	Mr. Representative Vedran Rozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61796	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The main purpose of the adoption of this law, which entered into force on 25 June 2009, was to accelerate the flow of capital, i.e. the promotion of reduced investment in the area of construction, which was to be achieved by enabling the construction of economically significant buildings to start within a shorter period of time. within 45 days of the date of submission of an orderly application for the issue of a building solution. By increasing the rights and responsibilities of the participants of the construction, especially the designers and investors during the preparation of the project documentation, the organisation of the competent administrative authorities of the counties and cities, how to implement procedures and issue solutions without delay, in this respect, the ministry has concluded agreements on providing professional assistance with all the counties and with 20 major cities with the power to issue acts in the field of spatial planning and construction other than the cities of Rijeka, Sisak, Varazdin and Samobor. In the past year, a total of 811 requests have been received from the law, of which 45 investors gave up so that 766 applications remain. 427 building solutions have been issued, 186 requests have been rejected and 153 requests have been resolved. The most common reasons why the requests were rejected were 55 investors who did not have proof that they had the right to build; 71 requests were rejected because they were submitted for non-legislative buildings; 41 requests were rejected for other reasons, from which the main project in the spatial-planned documentation was uncoordinated; data in land books and catastros; lack of update of cadastrian maps, then ownership issue and one other thing – inequality of second-degree solutions when solving the same administrative cases. Compared to the structure of buildings according to the purpose for which the building solution was issued 24% is residential and residential-business, 26% is business and production, 3% is catering-tourism, 9% is commercial and 37% is mostly infrastructure purposes. The above percentages show that investments are aimed at those buildings that create new jobs after their construction. On the basis of the monitoring of the situation in the field of construction, the Ministry considers that there are still reasons for the adoption of the Law on Conduct and Construction Conditions in order to encourage investment. In addition, at its 55th session held on 6 May 2010, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a plan for the implementation of the economic recovery programme under which two measures of this programme are related to this Act. These are measures consistent with the application of the Act on Procedures and Construction Conditions to encourage investment popularly appointed all within 45 days and measures to form a special coordination office, acceleration and supervision of authorisation and authorisation for all major investments with the Minister at the head, and for implementing which measures it is necessary to adopt the proposed law. To this end, I am in favour of the adoption of the proposed law prolonging its application until 31 December 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61797	Thank you. Mr. Representative Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61798	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I'm particularly pleased when you give me your word, which means we haven't gone underground yet, to make a joke for starters. I don't remember how it was during Tito as Mr. Cain and Mijalic I was 6 years old but I know well how it was during HDZ, or Sanader and Mrs. Kosor, and unfortunately it's not good. We can pass laws whatever we want, and this is the law that I support as a representative, but if we don't do everything in our power to protect the economy, to attract foreign investors, no technical law will help us make the data look better than they really are. And what data is enough to say that unfortunately in July, this year, these are the last data we have been assigned 744 building approvals, or 20% less than in July 2009 or about 6% less value than then. At year-on-year level, approximately 15% less approvals were granted than in 2009 or even nominally 5 billion kunas less than in 2009. So, regardless of what we passed in 2009 this Law, which helped certain investors to make their project more efficient, the results are poor, we need to see what the results of 5 billion kunas in this year are less than in the same period of 2009 or even 15% of requests granted less than in the last year. And that's what doesn't make us happy, which in Croatia is not a good situation, which is the economy I would say in a knockdown, which this year, unlike many countries, not many, but many countries, I would say very few countries will record this year's economic downturn, and even the countries that were in our environment until yesterday, who wanted to be like Croatia, for example, Serbia, Bosnia, this year will achieve economic growth, and unfortunately Croatia will not do the same, or we will have an economic downfall of about 2% and that is the result that cannot satisfy us. As far as foreign investments are concerned, they are somewhat unknown in Croatia for many years. We have attracted very few foreign investors over the past 20 years, amounting to around 23 billion euros, as compared to those invested in Croatia, each year we invest around 10 billion euros in Croatia. So in two years, we invest as much as we've drawn in 20 years from the world of investment. And that something says we're not capable of attracting investors, and I'll talk about the reasons later. Unfortunately, investments are the most attracted to the banking sector, even about 8.5 billion kuna, there is no one that drives production, there is no industry, there is no industrial growth, etc. So we're not doing well in that segment. That the data are not even good for this year, it says that this year, about a billion euros will drop from 2009 to around 45% lower, about 75% lower than in 2008 very devastating data. Which is why there are reasons not only because we don't have legal solutions because legal solutions are the easiest to write, but our administration sometimes doesn't do the best it should and normally that we can't attract foreign investors. Here's an example of Ikea that is struggling to invest 2 billion kunas, and it is now in the end having problems with the Constitutional Court because it is asking the question of how to pay for the re-use of agricultural land all this needs to be seen by the state how it has dealt with legal proposals and not now that investors and the Constitutional Court are dealing with how Ikea invests 300m euros in Croatia and it has been standing for several years. It is as if it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia that this investment is not going and it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia that 60 million euros each year Croatian citizens are not spending in Croatia but are going to buy furniture in Austria at the same shopping centre that could be in Rugvica. On the other hand, the Ministry of Economy, which is obvious to all where the investments would have to take place in Croatia, is energy, unfortunately about 7 billion kunas are imported every year, 3.5 billion INA, 3.5 billion kunas of HEP and instead of going into investment in the energy sector, we are doing nothing here, the rules that the Ministry of Economy needs to be adopted or not correct, HEP has no projects to invest in energy and one Germany from which it could attract these investments this year invest 70 billion euros in energy. And maybe something could be invested in Croatia but it can't because there are no projects, there are no frameworks in which these investments would be realised. And, of course, at the end of the day, the biggest problem, the legal uncertainty of corruption, we fell this year, and we kept a low corruption index in Croatia of 4.1. In 2008, we had 4, 4, 2009, 2010. 4.1, that Transparency International publishes every year. Slovenia, for example, our first neighbor is in 27th place in the world, there are 6.4 which already index up to 10 better, Croatia has 4.1 and 62nd country in the world. And normally when it's a crisis in the world that investors go where they're safer, where they can handle their capital more easily, invest and where they won't have to grease on several levels to make their investment. And that is why Croatia has been bypassed by foreign investors in these two years. So that's where we need to work on making investment simpler and more transparent. At the end of public spending which does not need to speak much burdens and the economy rather than making it easier for the economy, allowing citizens to spend more, to increase spending in Croatia, we do exactly the opposite. The evidence is also this crisis tax that was abolished on 1.11. We took 3 billion kunas in a year and a half for Croatian citizens and we do everything the opposite of what European countries are doing that gave citizens more and helped the economy invest, to start an investment cycle. And of course the result can't be good. And finally, the result is again this year's economic downturn. Less investment, less building permits, the construction sector fell 20% compared to last year. These are the data that are defeated and should work on the substance, I'd say start an investment cycle, not praise certain legal proposals that I'm also up for because they only come at the end. They come as something that facilitates certain investments, but attracts them themselves they can't. They can be drawn to these things that I was talking about, which the HDZ government unfortunately does not want to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61799	Thank you. My colleague Maras was too much to thank for giving the word. I will fight for your word, for your freedom of word, especially in accordance with those famous maximums of Voltair. Two corrections, two incorrect allegations, two replicas. First correction, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61800	Thank you very much. A colleague, Maras, was said to prevent investment and set an example of how Ikea could not invest because she bought land treated as agricultural and could not be redesigned for construction. Well, that's great. Someone buys land as agricultural and instead of growing a agricultural species on it, at 20 times the price, they want it to be a construction that's 20 times more expensive. Well, that's not the purpose of investors. The investor is the real one that buys building land, then he's going to make it clear. And the "best" are those who buy such agricultural land, refurbished into construction land, and when they get permission, they sell it and earn huge money, and they don't invest at all. But the state should also come up with such ideas, so at least cut the tax on an increased value of land, which is 50 times higher after obtaining a building permit than the price of agricultural land, and this colleague Cain certainly knows how it works in Istria. And for you, you better not have lived in the time you mentioned not to remember. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61801	Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61802	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I would correct the incorrect assumption that the total investment in the Republic of Croatia is 23 billion. So it's an incorrect piece of information. It's from some old brochure you read. A little update is 24.5 billion euros. And also when you talk about foreign investment, I think it's a little hypocritical to talk in the context of 20 years of the Republic of Croatia, because we know that in times of war, porn, etc. That this timid capital is certain he couldn't come here. And I'll say something about the years you ruled. You had the same level of investment in absolute amount as the HDZ government when it was in 1999 when we were just saying it while we were in power these rates doubled and even tripled, foreign investments, which only speaks about the quality of your laws, your incentive policy, your openness to the world and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61803	Replica, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61804	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, your incursion, the depression of illegality, the former times and the attempt of a little surprise for Vice President-in-Office of the Assembly, who made it clear from the HDZ, asked me to report for the replica, so in that first part of your exposure. On the way, I had one book from our Slavonic poet, Ivan Tchaikovec or Ivan Slavonski, who says in four verses, "What are we?" is the title. "We were friends, and what are we now? We wanted to be gentlemen and become a handful of misery." It's a replica to the first part. And to that other part in terms of investment of charging the state budget, etc. And in my presentation, I forgot to say, and given that I've raised a line on your exposure, that on the island of Vir, Mr. Secretary of State, and you know it well, there are 10,000 illegal objects. In Rogoznica and some other places, too. Believe me, the vast majority of those 10,000 owners, these holiday homes, are eager to get a building permit. Or do you think of making the island of Vira a Hiroshima, a new Vukovar, and aligning everything that is not legal. However, I think that the founding state is as it is and the state budget could be filled with my own personal calculation of about 40 million euros or about 300 million kuna if the founding state were legalised and issued to people by a building permit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61805	Replication response, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61806	Thank you very much. Mr. Grubisic, your poetic contribution to this debate, yes, ok. I'd just like to answer one thing for you. As far as investment is concerned. Well, it's possible sometimes to make an investment and re-use the land you bought, but then you pay the state a fee for it. And you pay by law compensation for what this Croatian Parliament has brought. The problem arises when a law is written which then the Constitutional Court declares in part unconstitutional and then an investor who expected to be able to pay, because the municipality has re-scheduled land from the farm in Rugvica to a construction site has no one, does not know how much and who to pay, and therefore the investment stands. The thing is, if we want investors, we need to write such laws that will allow investment to take place from the beginning to the end. And as for the Vir Municipality, it is an extreme case, but I agree that when it has happened to these people, especially if the municipality in this way has to be able to legalise their problem and everywhere in Croatia where it is possible to do so, because the municipality would, for example, be able to do so with that money that would contribute to the solution of the infrastructure. There you know that people live, or do not live, but fly, have cottages and sometimes under a lot of inhumane conditions where there are no basic conditions so that the municipality with these resources could also urbanize the island and allow the citizens to have cottages and their buildings on normal land.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61807	Ms. Representative Bozica Šolić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61808	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague, Maras, in his debate, spoke of a 20% decline in the construction sector. I was particularly intrigued by that, and I gave him the replica that he could and knows, I'm sure he can answer my questions. Namely, fellow Maras, did you wonder how much the situation was, the fall in the construction sector contributed to the factional struggle of the SDP in the City of Zagreb. So this investment in Brezovica, which is worth 50m euros, is one of the reasons for the factional struggle of the SDP in the City of Zagreb. You need to know that in my place you took the job of hundreds of people, dozens of people with medium and small entrepreneurship, who would participate in the construction. It all contributed to your factional struggle. I ask you to answer me and investigate it because you are one of the leading SDP people in the City of Zagreb, and you can do this, I have tried many times as a representative, I came to the closed door because this project is above all important for Brezovica. It's about kindergarten, it's about schools, and it's missing my place. I ask you in the offices that are responsible for issuing building permits and other permits to start this project, to start this huge investment, to see it and to help me and to help with these and citizens in Brezovica. And I ask you so much to answer me, but I would tell you that you are one of the privileged persons because you have acquired your adulthood in an independent, independent and free state of Croatia. A lot of people didn't have those privileges.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61809	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61810	So be it on your honor and good luck. And HDZ will certainly not ban the existence of the SDP because HDZ in the 1990s brought Croatia democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61811	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61812	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solic. Now, after these words of yours, I can say that I'm a little quieter, especially these final ones, because you can never reveal the uncertainty and the intention, but here's when you're announcing it in front of the HDZ, I have to admit that I've calmed down a lot. In the end, let me tell you, one part of the replica I didn't quite understand because I don't know what a factional struggle means, given that the mayor who is no longer a member of the SDP is in the city, so I didn't understand that remark the most. But if, since I don't know the case in Brezovica, if there's a possibility that the City Assembly can help solve this problem, of course SDP will do anything, especially if the investor exists. I'll tell you one thing that's unfortunately not happy, but it's true. In Croatia, at the moment, the most investment takes place in the City of Zagreb. You will witness an investment that has now ended these days when all MPs leave their homes on Friday when they leave Zagreb, a new centre is opened, meaning one big investment that is happening in Zagreb. There are many more construction sites in Zagreb. Unfortunately, this is not happening in Croatia, most of the things that are being invested and built are still happening in the City of Zagreb and the task of us all here and the Government of the Republic of Croatia would be to develop Croatia evenly and to invest throughout Croatia. Unfortunately, the only thing that is done now is in Zagreb, but for that we are not responsible. Tomorrow when the SDP comes to power, it will be. Thank you very much. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61813	Final review, Secretary of State Davor Snotty. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61814	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to thank you briefly for this constructive debate and for the proposals that are related to this area governed by this law. I would briefly just look back here, there were a lot of words about spatial plans, more detailed implementation plans. I would just like to say that by analysing the implementation of both this law and the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Ministry has seen its agreement on certain spatial plans, which are responsible for giving consent, a large number of urban plans and low-level plans that need to be adopted, which, as a rule, Mr. Roshin's colleague said, are potentialed by the designers themselves. Therefore, on two occasions we asked the units of local self-government to make an analysis of all their spatial plans and to minimise to a minimum the need to adopt these implementation plans, urban plans, detailed arrangements and to concentrate only where it is explicitly prescribed, it is also in three cases and that there is no need to adopt so many implementation plans when a spatial plan of the municipality and the city is adopted, more often than ever in practice that the provisions, the implementing provisions of the municipal spatial plan, de facto repeat then in that plan of the lower order and basically nothing happens, and only a barrier is created. In connection with the legalisation of the facilities, the government recently accepted an analysis of municipalities and cities conducted by the ministry regarding illegal construction in the Republic of Croatia. One of the conclusions or recommendations of the Government that we will send to all units of local self-government is to encourage as much legalisation as possible. Legalisation is not income, so much revenue from the state budget as the income of the local self-government units is in their interest. The law on spatial planning and construction contains provisions on legalisation of objects, however, there is one other thing. I'll just give you an example of Rogoznica. Maybe you've been listening recently, watching on TV, Rogoznica has come up with its own spatial plan, now no one wants to legalize themselves. No one has filed a request, no one wants to be legalized, people are going through the logic of things now I'm in the context of a spatial plan and no one can do anything to me, there's a certain case law that could protect them and they don't want to apply. Therefore, it is also on the local self-government unit to take certain steps. You can't force anyone to apply. There are ways and instruments. We said we'd still tolerate it for a while that disrespect of the law. If legalisation requests are not submitted within a year, the ministry will apply the provisions of the inspection control Act relating to illegally built buildings, so we will go to the disposal of these facilities. The source has as much as I know the possibility of legalization, and it has a spatial plan. I even think that Zadar County has opened a facility in Vira itself that people shouldn't go to Biograd or Zadar, so that they can file demands in Vira. There are certain problems in the spatial plan, but it's not the state's fault. It's the local self-government unit's problem that she didn't see the state of things properly. When a specific spatial plan is adopted, the same as the law or any other project, then things should be prepared, the data should be compiled, and this. There's been a lot of talk here about a disaster. And we've been getting a lot of complaints lately about the work of the cadastrian offices that they've been verifying the elaborates for a long time. On the other day, the Director of State Administration sent one district to all the offices to meet deadlines of 45 days in the application of the law to speed up the issue of solving certain cases in Catastro which are essential in issuing the necessary building permits. We will continue as the ministry responsible for the State Geodetic Administration to ask the Director to carry out certain administrative controls through these district offices in order to settle these issues. Furthermore, about here in the debate it was said that perhaps the law would censure a certain censorship or to better say the value, the building value of a priority facility. I wouldn't accept such a proposal because that's what we discussed in 2009 when this law was passed. In one version of the law, it was only about objects, it seemed to me that there was an investment of more than 10 million euros, so the Committee on Spatial Planning was led by quite a lengthy and extensive debate about it and it seemed to me to be a session as I recall, so we came to the conclusion that this, that the value of the facility or the building value of the investment was not put into law, but that it was going as the law was proposed, or that the law was in force to issue for all the facilities for which the location permit was issued and the confirmation of the main project because it covers 90% of the buildings. As far as family houses are concerned, they are arranged through the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, a solution to the terms of construction. It's a very simple procedure. On the basis of an idea project alone, you get a solution for building a family house up to 400 square meters. Also for an economic facility 600 squares... So up to 400 squares there are both certain kiosks and the like. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If a building permit is required for them, there is a rule governing the issue of a building that does not require a permit. There is, the rule is repeatedly updated and changed according to needs and what we have seen through the application of this and that and the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, and also all those analyses and recommendations that were given through this debate will normally be respected and that the ministry will follow the application of all the laws in this area regarding spatial editing and building for any kind of bill based on which these procedures would be rationalised, make what is effective. I'd like to mention the following. We're here all the time talking about a period of authorisation. The licence may always be issued within the time limit provided that the request is neat. Most of the time, we talked here today about preparatory actions, which is the resolution of property relations, catastras and those that precede the issue of permits, i.e. preceding the submission of requests for something, which is in the meantime the creation of a project. In some normal European frameworks, these procedures are conducted between 5 and 7 years. Five years of preparation is including issuing a permit, so let's say two years, two to three years of construction. Construction is always the shortest part of the construction process if we take the whole process from the beginning of some idea, investment, development, etc. I wouldn't agree here it was said about the inequality of second-degree solutions. It's not true that solutions are the ministry. The ministry is very well followed and we also take care of court practice, administrative court practice and constitutional court practice. And it may happen often that a solution once sounds different, but it is then the consequence or judgment of the Administrative Court or a certain position of the Constitutional Court. You know, a lot of people go to constitutional suits in some cases and stuff. We too must respect the decisions of the courts in the Republic of Croatia. That's what the Constitution wants, and we stick to it. It is neither discretionary nor arbitrary change of any practice in the application of the law. This is what we inform local self-government units about, and then there's often a lot of misunderstandings with them. We can do this as much as we can through the districts and through instructive administrative supervision because they are the simplest when we come to the scene, our people come to us, and with the administrative supervision they perform also instructive and directly meet with concrete objects, it is dealt with. I would also not agree that this is some kind of palitative solution, because the law is of a certain temporary character or duration. He's always taking his chances. At the beginning of this recession, the economic crisis if you followed the European Commission's website a little bit then you could see that on those pages came the recommendations. This was at the time when the government also adopted anti-recession measures recommending Member States to cut deadlines in certain procedures, administrative procedures in their countries. For example, there was even talk that temporarily, I say temporarily, means not permanently but temporarily trying to shorten some deadlines in public procurement procedures. Well, according to that, that law is on the line. As long as there are conditions for its application, it will apply, and in some normal times normally we will return to some legislative frameworks, some kind of civilization and this behavior. There's been talk about neighbors, too. I must say again the neighbors do not agree in the procedures of the location permit, the neighbors plead whether something is in line with the plan or not. That they have the right to appeal. This allows them the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We can't forbid any neighbor to complain. That's what the Constitution lets him do. This allows him to have the General Administrative Procedure Act and the positive regulations. What do I know if Croats like to complain too much or not, which is another question. But that's the way things are. I would normally thank you for, otherwise once again for this debate, and here I ask you to uphold the law. The ministry, what it can do under its jurisdiction, will, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, seek to improve and economicise more legislation, if that is the case, if that is the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61815	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61816	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, I didn't mean to be in any way malicious, but when you talk about legalizing facilities on the island of Vir, then when... local self-government, then they refer back to the ministry, and so we, the people who live there and who have those holiday houses are, walking from the merciless but unloved. [[You don't understand.]] And when it comes to taxes already going to local self-government, then I have to inform you that these non-existent objects, if there is no location, no building permit, no building building solution, so this facility actually doesn't exist anywhere, it's not actually registered anywhere, but it's neatly taxed on all the buildings on the island of Vir. Interesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61817	All right, gentlemen, these are not corrections to incorrect allegations, this is one comment. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Now we're going to vote on the points discussed so far. First, the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Conduct and Construction Conditions to encourage investment. It's an emergency procedure. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a law amending the Act of Conduct and the terms and conditions of construction to encourage investment. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 99 votes in favour and 1 abstention of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61820	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. A few words only briefly on the proposed amendments and additions to the Tax Administration Act. So you know that even when we passed and proposed the Law on Personal Identification Numbers, and later during its implementation we announced that it was done, and that we actually turned the whole business into two stages or two. The first was only the original, initial, in terms of the allocation of personal identification numbers, and this second was also the final information connection and the system of information exchange between official records based on precisely unambiguous identification of persons through the OIB. It is precisely in this context that these proposed amendments and additions to the Tax Administration Act are actually going to regulate the information exchange, which is in the same way one condition and a prerequisite as I said before for the full implementation of the personal identification number system, which we can actually say is from 1.1.2011. As regards these provisions of the law, i.e. these proposed amendments and additions, it is essential to stress that these proposed amendments and additions provide that, after the adoption of this law, the bodies of official records are, in fact, concluded so-called. the cooperation agreement as a general act and at the same time the data exchange protocol as a detailed implementing act. Of course, from the perspective of this law, of course I can speak about the Tax Administration, so according to this and in the explanation of the changes and additions themselves, we have foreseen and wrote that the implementation and implementation of these amendments will require the provision of 12 million kuna 250 000, which is the cost exclusively and only related to the establishment of the costs of the central system in the tax administration, i.e. in the APIS. But let me also, just when I'm talking about this financial aspect, that we're also saying that with this information exchange system and between official records, we're just going to make significant savings, because in this way we're replacing, someone is going to say a long and ineffective exchange in terms of paperwork with one very effective, and we can say so in real time with real data exchange in electronic form. From the perspective of the Tax Administration, this is certainly one big, big step forward where actually officials, i.e. tax administration will actually have the power in terms of seconds to have data on the property of individuals, and in this way actually have the possibility of comparing and in some way better records and control of tax returns themselves and generally establishing a tax base, what we have said from the beginning that in a good way they actually compare property data with income data. Let me also just say briefly, therefore, that in these amendments and additions we have made a series of other amendments which I would have said purely nomotechnical nature, since, of course, not only with the introduction of a personal identification number, but from the last amendments and additions to the Tax Administration Act, all the powers and all the additional jobs that are in the Tax Administration area are now closer to these amendments and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61821	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Legislatives? I'm opening a debate. SDP advocates' club, Mrs. Nada Cavlovic, Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61822	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So I have to say at the outset that despite the announcements of Finance Minister Ivan Shuker that the OIB will be in full effect, that it will fully function from 1.1.2011, it did not happen. We have seen from the opening presentation of the State Secretary, meaning that as regards the implementation of the OIB, the Tax Administration has done its job, this is the first stage of the job, which means that all citizens and legal persons in the Republic of Croatia have received a personal identification number, but now precedes that second phase, which is far more important to me than this first one, and for this first stage, it only took us two years to assign that number. As for the introduction of the OIB, it will certainly be, or one of the main elements, also in the fight against corruption. But looking at this second phase where the Tax Administration will appear as a coordinating body, and where it will actually be networked, or where it will exchange data with other public authorities, I see here a whole series of problems, or I don't think these activities will go quite smoothly and will not go at the pace that it is imagined in the Ministry of Finance. When we talk about public authorities with which it means to connect the Tax Administration, as a central coordinating body, then we primarily think about commercial courts, then we think about municipal courts, i.e. land-booking departments where ownership data is kept, we also think about records that have MIPs, i.e. records in commercial courts related to securities, because we know that public legal authorities like that. The gruntovnica, they have real estate data, the MUP has data on the ownership of movables, i.e. passenger cars, vessels and other motor vehicles, and so all that work has to be done and the question is just how are the records available to these other public-legal bodies. So, only when all these conditions are met and when finally means public-legal bodies are linked to the tax administration as a team centre and a coordinating body at that time can we say that it means the real one, the expected effect of the OIB, which is that the tax administration can finally have data on the property of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I must also point out here that the tax administration means before the introduction of the OIB, or before the amendments to this Tax Administration Act, it also had instruments, or it could, if it wanted to, and the question, of course, was how much it did, to verify certain data, or could, when submitting annual tax returns, but also during the year, be able to verify, compare data on all taxable and non-taxable receipts of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, meaning taxpayers. She also had data on the property these citizens acquired during the tax period. Namely, what's this about? The tax administration shall keep records of the properties acquired during the year by citizens of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. taxpayers in the so-called so-called ‘registration’. used properties. We know that there are no new real estate data since the purchase of new real estate is subject to the payment obligation of VAT, so the data are in the garnery. Also, the tax administration had data on the transport of used vehicles since it made... and the collection of that tax and did not have the only information on the purchase of new motor vehicles. However, during the year, the tax administration could and did seem to be in certain regional offices, but in my assessment not enough, to look for exactly the AFIS data Mr. State Secretary mentioned which essentially forms the information support of the tax administration, and in these papers it was possible to see which citizens had acquired what property during that tax period. Whether it's real estate or movables already. And not only could the tax administration, but she was bound by law. 63. Income tax law. It is also based on the existing Income Tax Act, based on its records, which are available on the property of taxpayers, the tax administration has also been obliged to establish property cards since 2001. What does that mean? This means that in these property cards all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia could find themselves, i.e. data on all incomes, i.e. taxable and non-taxable incomes that citizens who have acquired during the year, as well as data on the property of each citizen, or taxpayer. The tax administration was also bound by the applicable Income Tax Act to compare the meaning of such declared income with the data on the property obtained and immovable property and, where it is established that the taxpayer's property does not have a coverage in its meaning of the purchase income and assets, then the tax procedure is opened where the tax procedure determines the actual situation and, in any case, it is established that the property of the taxpayer is far greater than its declared income in that case, the taxpayer must submit an annual tax application, the tax liability is determined in such a way as to establish it as the difference between the income obtained by the taxpayer and the property he obtained and there on that difference the tax pay. I must say, as far as these obligations are concerned, in this article 63. The income tax law said the tax administration didn't do much, and it could. One of the reasons is certainly this, I say from experience, that lists were coming into certain regional offices where it was seen exactly and it was known, especially in smaller places, who owns expensive cars, who owns large properties, who acquired the unknown apartment, but the individuals were amnesty of it. In certain meanings, citizens who acquired property of high value, who applied to the tax administration at the same time very small incomes or no incomes were not involved in the process of determining the facts that are relevant for taxation and which are prescribed by the General Tax Act. And that is why this introduction of the OIB where we will now have in one place all the data on the property of the taxpayer and its incomes will have its own meaning only if it is true for each individual taxpayer where there is found to be this disproportionate and that there are grounds to go into the assessment, i.e. in establishing a new tax base, only in this way the OIB will have its own meaning. If we're going to work as a bore, I'm saying we've had opportunities and now we're doing it, and we haven't done it, then the OIB can't possibly be that powerful tool in the fight against corruption. And that's what I see as a kind of danger, and I'm afraid politics will somehow again affect the implementation of the tax administration procedure. I would like to say one more thing: the tax administration, above all, as an administrative organisation within the Ministry of Finance, is that we know that its basic task means the duty and attack on tax revenue, and above all, the income of budgets, taxes and contributions. Today, however, we in the tax administration, those who work, who are the main and key meanings of people who are looking at tax returns and who are in charge of tax-law proceedings, unfortunately because of certain specific rules imposed on them by certain other jobs simply do not have the time to devote themselves to those jobs that are very important and where very large revenues could be found for the state budget. I'll take just a few examples of what's going on in the IRS. Can you imagine that the tax administration's referents in the smaller e.g. The exposures that have maybe 30 people a year have 6 thousand items that they receive from the MUP, these are the requirements for the collection of the costs of the 120 kuna procedure? It means the job the tax administration is doing because this job is imposed on her by a special law. So, the M.O.P. is charging his fine, and the cost of the 120 kuna procedure goes to the tax administration. So, the reviewer in the statement must borrow that amount, it must send a warning to that citizen, which means he has committed that traffic violation, must carry out the procedure of enforcement for 120 kuna. I think just opening that case and doing the job that the referent does is simply far more valuable than those 120 kunas. I'm saying, in the smaller outposts, I've said, in the outposts, about six thousand items, and these are a bunch of items that stand and which are the references that need to be solved. In addition, it is not only the costs of the MUP procedure, it is also about the costs of the infringement procedure up to 500 kuna which, under the specific law, must also be charged by the tax administration, and for that non-taxable citizen, means to carry out again a special procedure of enforcement is a far easier case, if it is a taxpayer who already has a tax debt, then you only attribute those costs to that debt, but most of it is about citizens who are neither craftsmen nor self-employed, which means they are not taxpayers at all, but for such a citizen you now have to open the case for 120 or 500 kuna. I have to say one more thing, during 2003, the tax administration took over from the Pension Insurance Office and the Health Insurance Office from the Office. I have to say that all the things that are charged in this country and what is owed to all the jobs that are not known to be given to, all these jobs where in some way some service should be relieved come to the tax administration and here with full responsibility I claim that in 2003 when they took over those jobs that are listed in the records of these institutions total chaos and most tragically all the employees of the pension and health services who worked on these jobs, and it means the jobs of borrowing and collection of contributions because it is the largest part of the work that is done in these offices have been transferred to the tax administration, the tax administration has not received any employees but these same people are still working in those offices. And what is happening again now, again, the tax administration must, because these services have not taken care at all to contribute as an important source of income to the state budget, to be charged because it was necessary to look at the enforcement procedure in courts, because they did not have their own collection service, tax administration officials have since 2003 to handle thousands of cases of outdated contributions. I have to say that age-old deadlines are 5 years and relatively 10, absolute and regrettable that the abovementioned seduces with so many people who have had and who have received for these 7 years have been unable to collect their contributions. I would also just like to say in the end, as far as these 8 things are concerned, what I said at the beginning about the application of the OIB, I'm afraid, is that in some ways, regardless of what the tax administration will have, and what should in some way facilitate the work of the tax administration, precisely for those reasons, if we have these property data, we'll be able to distribute the tax burden more fairly, in that sense, it wasn't obviously done, so it's just that I'd say that those taxpayers who didn't have political protection are coming, and I'm afraid that by introducing the OIB if something doesn't change, that we're going to stay on the same thing. In any case, the SDP Representatives' Club will support the adoption of this law and we think that the rights of the OIB's role should be restored as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61823	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61824	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will proceed immediately to this final sentence by my colleague from the SDP. In any case, the proposal for this Act and the HDSSB Club will support only in good faith and hope that it will finally come to order in tax policy, in paying taxes and contributions in the Republic of Croatia, that it will disappear so-called "the Republic of Croatia". political protection for those who have so far been able to use this political protection to prolong or not pay their tax tax. I realize that difficult times for the economy, I understand for the business of companies and companies are also needed crafts, and then tax obligations can be agreed with the tax administration and there is that, we all know that, and we may maybe extend or pay in some rural wars, but that in the end, it still settles. However, I will not now list the names of companies and companies that owe more millions of dollars to the tax administration, especially what belongs to the inspection and supervision of the tax administration, which are contributions to the Pensions Office, etc. That's what you, Mr. Secretary of State, I hope you know, as I know, and as many citizens of the Republic of Croatia know, especially the citizens of local self-government units where these taxpayers, the large taxpayers live. Clearly, the executions come for those reported by the MUP at 120 kuna, that there is a problem if you do not pay the electricity for one household, for a relatively small amount compared to these multimillion-dollar amounts which some taxpayers under political protection do not pay or a violation procedure whose cost is 500 kuna, and also runs due to the collection and in connection with certain violations made by citizens, natural persons. So in good faith and the hope that all this will be avoided together that it will finally come to order, in tax and contribution collection, I believe that this networking will be as stated here, and it will come after the introduction of a record based on two documents. Therefore, one is an agreement on cooperation with public legal authorities, and another is a protocol on the exchange of data between public legal authorities and the IRS. For these needs in the State budget, additional funds of €11 million and €250,000 should be provided, as stated on page 3 of this Legislative Proposal, of the evaluations and sources of the necessary resources for the implementation of the Law. I hope Mr. Secretary of State that in these 11 million and 250 thousand kunas that are designed for the establishment of an electronic data exchange system between the tax administration and the public-law bodies, then for implementation of the property card system, functional requirements, then for business an analysis and design and architecture, development of software support, testing of systems and production that will not be of these 11 million and 250 thousand kuna will not be much, I hope at all need to single out for so-called. intellectual services. Because I am convinced that the IRS and the Ministry of Finance have quite up-to-date, excellent and educated personnel who can do so within the framework of this money provided for in the state budget for these needs without giving money for intellectual services to someone on the side. So it won't be just because there's no doubt in the waste of our taxpayers' money. I am saying this because there is one example that the citizens of Slavonski Brod have been talking about for months, which is that the IRS in Slavonski Brod is working in a rented space that is paid monthly by the state and the taxpayers, let's let's go about three million kuna a year. Renting the Tax Administration space three million a year in Slavonski Brod of the Acceptable Renter. The contract was signed between the IRS and that private ten-year-old employer. That's Mr. Secretary of State 30 million kuna. I believe that 30 million kuna could have been built a tax administration building in Slavonski Brod or anywhere else, and for 4 years paying that rent could have saved the establishment of an electric data exchange system between the IRS and public-legal bodies because 4 times 3 million is 12 million kuna. That's why when we passed other laws that were last week on benches and when we talked about savings, mergers of various institutions, agencies, etc. It would be said the people here in our people's language "At the bridge they got, they lost" here is the new 11 million and 250 thousand kuna for the implementation of this legislative proposal. Furthermore, the OIB records and data on assets available through the connection of the Tax Administration with other public-legal bodies keeping official records of the property of persons. That's how you said it yourself, actually the second phase on the implementation of the OIB for what it's intended to be, so the establishment of the OIB. Therefore, the second stage of application of the personal identification number. So, in some ways, I wonder, is this also the way and way to make new legal proposals regarding new tax duties that will follow through the processing of records on the assets of natural persons and legal persons in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, with an increased coverage of the tax obligations of the natural persons on buildings, houses, cottages, holiday houses, land, etc. So when we do this now, we can sort out whether new legal proposals will follow which are being made in connection, and on the basis of the OIB's regulated record, in which it is clearly linked through public-law entities by means of a link and property of movable property, i.e. real estate, etc. all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and legal persons in the Republic of Croatia. It is clear that there must be a tax order in every country. It is clear that all must respect the Tax and Contribution Act. Unfortunately, that's not the case now. And in faith, given that I trust you, Mr. Secretary of State, there will be order and there will be no political protection and influence through I will not say tax evasion, but the debts for taxes and contributions here and the HDSSB will contribute to raising the hand for this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61825	Thank you. The HDZ club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61826	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. As we have already heard, the SDP Club and the HDSB Club will support the adoption of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Administration Act, and this will certainly be done by the HDZ Club, because this law only regulates the exchange of information exchange between the public administration and the IRS. By doing so, the Tax Administration becomes the central place of data exchange and becomes the main database. Here we heard a criticism from counterpart Cavlovic that the government has promised that full implementation of the OIB will take effect on 1.1.2011 and that this has not happened. Well, colleague Cavlovic can't even happen when the time has not come. So since 1.1.2011, the full implementation of the OIB will be. Similarly, by entering the EU, the Republic of Croatia will be obliged to exchange information and provide information to other EU Member States, and this law extends the IRS's part-round to that part. This information exchange is actually based on two basic acts, the Cooperation Agreement and the Data Exchange Protocol. This will certainly contribute to the application of this Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax Administration Act on the effectiveness of the tax administration, the urgency of the tax administration, because at any moment it will have the property status of each individual and of every person and natural and legal person, and thus it will be able to compare and modify the property situation and verify and apply for a tax base, as well as to verify whether each individual, both natural and legal person, their legal obligations, tax obligations. When it comes to tax obligations, I would point out that there is no right for all those legally accounting for tax obligations to pay such a tax liability and there was never a need for more financial discipline than today in this difficult economic time, in this difficult economic situation. Understanding all the problems both entrepreneurs and economies and the indifference of business entities and the level of interest rates, the inability to credit, which is all reflected in the ultimately non-discrimination, the regular non-discrimination of tax liabilities. However, I urge that a way be found so that at least no legal person can pay the profits until he confirms that he has all agreed obligations towards his suppliers, all obligations to the state, but also all obligations to employees, first pension contributions, health contributions and salaries. There is no reason for someone to have the opportunity to pay a profit or profit from a business year without paying off his obligations to suppliers, employees and the state. And we are calling for a legal module to be found to be eliminated in the future and such things will certainly improve financial discipline in the Republic of Croatia. The HDZ Club supports the adoption of a proposal to amend and supplement the Tax Administration Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61827	Thank you. HNS-HSU Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61828	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. In the beginning, I will say that the HNS and HSU club will support this bill and we believe that it introduces some newspapers, absolutely necessary for the functioning of the OIB system, but we also want to say that we are dissatisfied with the practice and part of the situation that is related to the functioning of the tax administration, which would certainly be much better if the government's forces, i.e. the finance departments, concentrated on the changes that would prevent the problems that occurred in the meantime. First of all, from the fact that the head man of the Tax Administration in the Republic of Croatia has not been elected in accordance with the law for 6 or 7 years. So we went so coldly over the fact that the director of the IRS wasn't elected as ordered by the law, and that's a public tender, but the government impossed it by naming it as a parallel secretary of state. It's a nakaradic solution that covers one legal gap, but certainly not correct. We don't even have a director of the IRS chosen by a public tender today, we have a temporary solution. And that's how it's been going on for years. Why should we have waited so long for this proposal if we started the OIB story two years ago, and it was quite clear that it was impossible to finalize it, impossible to bring to the level of operational feasibility without such legal solutions. On the other hand, we must be aware that these changes not only put the Tax Administration in focus by giving it very high powers, but also by positioning it in the system as one of the most responsible institutions to preserve the fiscal stability of the state, because it is the IRS that has to worry that the fiscus is arriving in the state budget on time and by law and that it is effective and effective in doing business in its own part-round, as the proposer here says in this proposal. But what we hold particularly important is that, with the full application of the rules on the personal identification number, a single platform will allow not only complete control over money, i.e. in a specific case of income of natural and legal persons, but which will also finally establish a system that will be useful in reforming social giving. Without this, we really cannot talk about the effective application of the solution so-called. We also have one situation today that is completely unsustainable that a huge part of the public revenue from the state budget goes to social transfers, and no one, but nobody can guarantee that they are leaving really to the one who deserves them, or to whom the original legal right belongs, because almost every segment raises the question of whether there are abuses. It is very important to prevent those bizarre situations, and this can be done by applying the Law on the OIB and the Law that is before us, that a person comes to you in a car more expensive than 150 thousand euros take his fee to the Employment Office. Maybe it's just one picture. There's more. We know very well that the funds from the state budget intended for social transfers are also used by people who have no right to do so, who have kept or acquired citizenship solely to benefit from those rights, for example. The application of this law must be fair and fully and fully implemented, but in order to ensure that there will be no abuse we must well consider the real role of the Tax Administration in our system. It's extremely important, it's inevitable, and we have to try, it's our responsibility to all those we call tax elite, to stop the IRS from being a means of dealing with some non-insects, rivals or something like that. It's not a long time ago, if we'd listened to data from the IRS about certain people in some city councils to compromise them in one way or another, and it's actually manipulated data that they don't really look what they really are. And on the other hand, the Ministry of Finance has made every single single one of its least enquiries about whether or not someone paid the tax turn into a tax secret. There can be no information on whether the best-paid football player in Croatia paid taxes or not. It may be how much he paid for it, but not if he paid for it because it's one of the most important questions. And we've been ridiculed here and it's practically mocked that every single one of our questions on the subject has been declared a tax secret, and we're where to say in this activity is turning huge money that the state hasn't taxed. It is extremely important that the tax administration does not be a lever for political pressures such as these days in the case of HRT where it is threatened by the blocking of accounts and by the forced collection of that part of the 12-year-old debt that is not known whether it has gone into obsolescence or not, but it is well known what it means for the management of Croatian radio television. It must not happen that anyone in the IRS using this Law uses a lever of political omen pressure. It is therefore extremely important that the first tax administration man be elected by law in a transparent public competition. Because if we don't have the first tax administration man elected like that, then there's a question of what's only inside. And we know where our longtime head of the IRS is. He's in Remitance! To establish a credible, efficient system of pardons, I apologize to the lapus, the lapus. The head of the tax administration isn't in Remetec. I'm sorry. It's about the head of customs. But we must do everything to ensure that the tax administration is and remains a professional service guaranteeing compliance with all the rules on payment obligations in various forms, according to different laws that define taxes and public budgets. And that's all. This system, which we are building by amending and supplementing the Tax Administration Act, will ultimately allow for the narrowing of the area of corruption, there is no doubt. Because what makes the process more transparent, or the course of the money itself, is the achievement of income is the chance to function in a part of the gray economy, to function what we call dirty money, or by washing it less and less. In this regard, we also welcomed the introduction of the OIB, and we also welcome the operationalisation of these elements that place the tax administration in the focus of the entire implementation system, so a new model of monitoring all citizens' incomes in the Republic of Croatia. It seems to us that this is extremely important so that the state could also build a platform that would be more efficient in implementing its social policy so that what has happened so far was that part of the funds intended for social transfers did not end with those who really deserve and who belong under the law, but those who have obtained this right by simmering and displaying false data. In this respect, the HNS Club supports the proposal to amend and supplement the Tax Administration Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61829	Thank you. Individual debate, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61830	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. The fact is that the need to amend and supplement the Tax Administration Act is based on significant changes in economic, social and environmental life in the last few years, but also on the need to adapt our legislation to the acquis of the European Union which significantly changes the role, content and scope of jobs, and the partial work of the Tax Administration. Furthermore, the introduction of a personal identification number and the basis of the Tax Administration’s personal identification number passed the obligation to conduct certain OIB-related transactions and, consequently, the new Tax Administration Act should also prescribe and carry out infringements and infringement proceedings for the purpose of implementing the OIB regulations. Of course, this new job could be carried out by the IRS to establish with other public-legislative bodies a system of electronic access to data and exchange in a very short time. In this way, the tax administration is really able to keep records of the OIB, i.e. in one place in the Tax Administration, a database is created on all persons, on their ownership, property, real estate, vehicles, vessels and the like. And by constantly harmonising accurate data and up-to-date management, changes in persons and their ownership, it enables us to correctly determine the tax base, evenly burden on taxpayers and control the implementation of their tax obligations, and that is what we all really care about, and that is what we all stand for. On the other hand, it is also important to prescribe the obligation of the competent public-legislative authorities to supply the necessary identification information on persons with regard to the Tax Administration for the purpose of enrolment in the OIB records, and to keep up-to-date the records, as the exchange of data for taxpayers' needs and the creation of an up-to-date database on each person is carried out and revived the meaning and system of the introduction of the OIB. The information contained in the OIB’s tax administration’s records can therefore be used by all others, it will also be possible to use other public-legal bodies via electronic data exchange. But what is important is that it be subject to the signing of those two documents and this Cooperation Agreement and the Data Exchange Protocol. These documents will also be prescribed, so the conditions under which public-legal authorities can use records data and the signature on them guarantee that there will be no unauthorised use and misuse of data and disclosure of tax secrets. Finally, at the end of this amendment, the Tax Administration Act also allows for international data exchange, which will also be the obligation of the Tax Administration to enter Croatia into the European Union. I really believe that this law will allow the Tax Administration to be effective, efficient in doing business, to ensure equal treatment of taxpayers and a level playing field of tax burden, which will contribute to the legal certainty of citizens and strengthen their trust in the state government. And that is why I support the adoption of these legal changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61831	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61832	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. This law could be said to be so vividly that it is a small law, since it contains 10 articles, but at the same time it should represent one big step, I will say almost revolutionary in the tax treatment of Croatian citizens. The essence of this law is to put the OIB into office. The second phase of implementation of the OIB in practice through the electronic networking of bodies keeping official records has been implemented in this first phase, namely, to Croatian citizens and legal persons. With these amendments and additions, the Tax Administration will become a central coordinating body where the IRS should be linked to all these public bodies, which keep official records of property, so above all with grants, police departments, commercial courts, so the entire property of legal and physical persons from land and facilities should be provided through cars, vessels and aircraft, up to the share and shares. The exchange of data would be based on a concluded cooperation agreement and a data exchange protocol. After this networking, the Tax Administration will have all the information necessary to verify compliance with the tax obligations, and this should enable the Tax Administration to be fully effective in carrying out tax control tasks, and this should finally result in a fair schedule of tax burdens among Croatian citizens, in accordance with a well-known constitutional principle which says that each contributes, or everyone is obliged to participate in the settlement of public costs in accordance with their economic, or material options. We know, unfortunately, that so far, that the tax burden has been unfairly distributed, because in Croatia, more and more taxation has been uncomparably taxed, and very little has been taxed on property, which in fact has been roughly ignored by the fact that individuals in the last 20 years in Croatia have acquired huge assets, largely by not paying for work. That's why this law I said was opening up and there's this one, we could almost say the historical dimension, and that's why this law needs to be supported. An important assumption for the efficient functioning of this entire system is the arrangement of the property records, in public law bodies. Unfortunately, we know what it still looks like, here's the moment, for example, in the garnery, despite major financial investments and despite the great efforts to take care of the situation. So it's still going to be a lot of water before this law is in full effect. Further to the OIB, it is like to say that an important and powerful anti-corruption tool is important. But a major limiting factor in achieving the full efficiency of this tool could still be the Institute of Tax Secrets, so something similar to that of the banking secret. Thus far, the IRS knew very precisely what employers were paying for their employees, who did not. However, the tax administration was literally placed as a real bureaucratic misery, and it itself did not actually assume that this negative phenomenon was suppressed. So the workers were and are still without their consent actually the biggest creditors of the companies they work in, which no one protects. Non-payment of salaries and non-payment of contributions in Croatia is a mass phenomenon. Just for the very reason that the Tax Administration did not take measures under its jurisdiction, however, the prolongations of obligations were allowed, and eyes were closed to antiquity, all for the sake of preserving social peace or for the sake of clientelistic bargaining. The big problem is that there were no bankruptcys in time, so the moment the formal conditions for this were met, even though we have actually provided legal sanctions for the non-starting of bankruptcy at the right time. In most cases, bankruptcy has moved since all the assets of the legal person have been decommissioned, and that is the main reason why in Croatia we almost have no reshuffle cases, so bankruptcy with the reshuffle, but almost all bankruptcy ends in liquidation, because there is no property. For years, workers who have invested their work in the creation and such property are left with nothing and no possibility to charge. But let's go back to this bill. I'd like to conclude one remark. I'd say an OIB actually is a good hardware. For the full efficiency of the entire tax control system, it is necessary, we all know that, and good software, and that software is political will. If there's no movement in that, so if there's no real political will, and the story of the OIB as an effective anti-corruption tool becomes a dead letter on paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61833	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61834	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President. When we talk about this law, no one is against the fact that some things in the state are being made more transparent and I would be referring to my colleague Nadica Jelash, the problem is political will, because so far, the Tax Administration has had opportunities and control in some way and see who has earned what, whether he paid the tax, and whether in some way it's justified that property he has with what he's earned over the past 20 years. The IRS keeps records of each of us for what year he earned, it seems to me since '93. years, and it is possible to reverse that year and see if our property can be covered with what we have earned. The problem if there is, and there is, because many people have not acquired their assets transparently, nor have they been charged taxes on what they have earned, can be solved. The OIB may be a good way to get rid of it, to tie up some things, and eventually to minimise potential possible abuses in the future. But I'd like to get a signal from the IRS once or twice that something's wrong. Here, I'm going to give you an example of an action that the MUP has spent over the past month, it's a "FOREX action" where 13 people have been arrested for malfeasance and theft of Croatian citizens' money of 120 million kunas over a thousand Croatian citizens who have given money to the so-called "Happiness chain" that lasted two years. Now, he snapped at the moment when the applications came from citizens who lost their money and who wanted the money back, but unfortunately he didn't come, and he could have come because those people who stole money from Croatian citizens didn't put it in a sock. They bought expensive cars, bought houses, bought apartments, those people the police arrested. That by any chance she reacted, and she could react because it's illogical that someone who doesn't have enough income suddenly buys an expensive car for 60, 70,000 euros or a house at sea. Maybe a lot of those people would have stayed with their money, or they wouldn't have worked for 2.5 years until it came to an end, until it broke like a balloon and a soap bubble. So that's what we sometimes ask the institutions of this state, and in this case it's the tax administration, to control because it has a right. He has the right to see if the property is consistent with what a certain person has earned. And that's why I'm saying it's not a key OIB because it could've been done through JMBG by now; it's not even a key networking in some things; it's hard for me to accept the argument that the tax office couldn't catch all the data that's connected to one person and that's why it couldn't be established. Maybe it's harder for the police to get data from the IRS than vice versa. But it's tax that could have reacted long before we decided to introduce the OIB. The OIB is, I agree, one instrument that can be good in the future. And another thing that is very important and that I expect in the future is a certain benefit, which is that it is not happening that social benefits are given to people who simply shouldn't be entitled to it according to their property. So we need to go one step further and see if our social benefits are properly targeted. We give big money, but unfortunately sometimes people who have large assets, who have companies, but who are formally unemployed, are also included in the fees. The man is unemployed, has his own company, earns hundreds of thousands of kunas, euros annually, and has been reported to his wife as unemployed and makes tax relief. So, we have to make an effort to use the OIB in the future to see whether those who achieve social assistance are essentially social cases or do abuse, in fact maybe not even abuse because they have the right to do so, and to change the laws that cannot be done in the future, but can be done on the basis of the OIB and based on data that the tax administration has and to make a better law in order for social assistance to be better targeted in the future. And what is particularly worrying, and it is impossible in this debate to avoid is the increase, and that is what counterpart Jelash mentioned, non-payment and outstanding obligations based on taxes and contributions. At this point, we have almost 13 billion kuna taxes and contributions that we have not charged. 13 billion kuna, now that you are looking at the responsibilities that Croatia is doing each year, the last task was slightly greater than that amount. But practically we charged those taxes, if it hadn't been for this situation that maybe we shouldn't have done that job. And that's a growing problem, which is almost at this point perhaps impossible to solve. Because how to charge that money if you make companies go bankrupt, but you simply can't allow one to not pay, and the other to have to pay taxes and contributions. In particular, the contributions that are money from all citizens and it is unfortunately worrying that this trend of non-payment of contributions is growing this year, which is directly saying stealing from Croatian citizens because these are their money from which pensions are paid from which they somehow exercise a certain right when they retire. So here I welcome the introduction of the OIB and the further implementation of it through this law, I support the tax administration, but I also expect it to work not only on the technical part of the work entrusted to it but to look and try to remove these irregularities which unfortunately exist in Croatian society, and we have witnessed them every day and everyone knows at least one person in their life who can't explain how she acquired certain assets when there is no easy income. This is also the task of the tax administration because the property was acquired illegally and the money the state was supposed to make as its own through tax obligations. And that, of course, is what should be the basic task of the tax administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61835	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61836	Thank you very much. Well, you said well that there have been, there have been a lot of cases where certain means of citizens driving in expensive cars and looking for certain benefits, i.e. users are social welfare. And in any case, I see the responsibility of the tax administration in that, on the one hand, because it has not taken care enough of how individuals, i.e. citizens, acquired their property or failed to comply with the Income Tax Act in the part which obliges the tax administration to compare property data with the incomes of that taxpayer. Well, there have been cases that these citizens may even have been on tax leave with their spouses. But look what else happened in the tax administration and why this could have happened and why certain social rights were actually abused, or used, without individuals being right. So far it's been enough to come to the tax administration to ask for confirmation and on that certificate they've written revenues, if you've had them, if you haven't had them, you don't have any income, and what's even more interesting is you've written as a person yourself what the value of your property is. You could have written that you have a property I don't know worth 10 thousand kunas, simply no one checked it because the tax administration doesn't have the information I told you about the property because it's run in the garter, although the statement was made under criminal responsibility, but since there were no checks we know that the abuses were great. And right in that part of it means social giving, where a large part of the money is poured out of the budget, there was a huge abuse of those rights. I think, finally, by introducing the OIB and connecting the databases and the Gruntovnica and Katastra and all other public legal bodies, this particular problem should be solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61837	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61838	Thank you very much. Well, our social system is known as one of the very bad targets of those who really need it, almost a little more than half of the money coming out of that system is the right of people who don't need it. I'm not going to explain the examples now, and these examples are really a lot. Social assistance should be reached by people who need it for life, not by which they earn additional income. Because someone who has 15 thousand kunas pay doesn't need to get welfare. On the other hand, someone who has an asset worth a million euros, or his family closer, because don't forget that there's always someone who can lie down and transfer to their wife or children or mother, we know that we have a very capable mother, these days we follow in Croatia mothers are capable and the girls are capable, it's really rare that the country has from politicians capable mother and girlfriend. It is one of the specificities of Croatia. So you need to see this succession order that has some kind of property, and these people shouldn't exercise the right to social assistance. But, of course, it is necessary to edit the records and to make laws in such a way that it is simply not possible. Unfortunately, the big money we spend on the social system doesn't go to people who live hard and who need that money to really survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61839	In 13 and 16 minutes, it was time to apply for a 10-minute debate and the last speaker, Mr. Danesh Soja, was represented. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61840	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I want to get involved in this debate with a few sentences and notes and possible and with a certain question. Here, in the light of this material, it is pointed out that the tax administration will be a coordinating body, so literally it writes, from the public authorities' point of view. In these public bodies, I think it's primarily probably about the land-based library department of the court, cadastre, customs, police, etc., and it's absolutely good and we expect it in relatively short time good results. What's a little bit from the Law and the amendments themselves, strangely enough to say, here is what the tax administration's task is, there are 15 to 20 points, since the collection of applications, the control of these applications, etc., but I don't think I've put an accent on the reality that it's a priority for the tax administration to control that data from those applications. I think it's a basic task to control whether it was a caterer, any other entrepreneur or craftsman, whether that information he presented to the tax administration was as realistic as it was shown. I'm saying this for the reason that I have to point out, I've been a little interested in that data about the total number of people who are employed in the tax administrations. We are talking about surplus officials from 2, 3, 5 to 7 thousand in total in public administration and the general government, however, I do not think that it can be said for tax services and administrations at least not for the city of Osijek and the service in the White monastery because the service in relation to the pre-war number, and also after the wartime number of officials in the Tax Administration in Osijek was halved, and in Beli Manastir covering all of Baranja at least 30, I was there for 10 years at the head of that service, it was reduced to only 9 executives, 9 employees. I therefore conclude from this that such an organized service with such a small number of people is not able to carry out certain control and reality of these tax returns, I think that in this future organisation there should be little consideration, of course, I think that even God knows that the excellent tax returns, or taxpayers, do not pay it enough on given occasions is quite risky and dangerous. I think it's clear to everyone. I would just point out one more moment and that is a certain secret of this data, it is probably not the same criterion for each administration, but it should give certain instructions that are secret, and which is not finally with this service a new one, with this OIB, it is not pointed out anywhere whether local self-government will be able to use certain data because local self-government is certainly interested in its citizens, i.e. certain categories of citizens, in that sense, what kind of property and other situation these citizens are. So, as far as secrecy is concerned, I can accept absolutely that everything is secret while the process is being conducted, but if it issues that powerful solution, I don't know if it's all secret we have a lot of problems getting such information about secrecy. Because too much to pay attention to that secret, I think it suits tax evasion, and I think there should be a little definition of what's in the overall data, which is top secret, which is not. I absolutely support the amendment of this Tax Administration Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61841	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Mr. Hanzek.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61842	So, the fact is that more than 17 years since the establishment of a new system of local and regional self-government. Local self-government is treated as any ordinary citizen in obtaining or collecting data from the Tax Administration. And with every data search, the answer is a tax secret. I don't think it's supposed to be in this case, because we're actually the same tax authority, whatever the tax is called, which we call or determine. And another thing, that we never really know how many taxpayers we have living in the city area, in the community area. It's also a tax secret, I don't know why. And we actually depend on the assumption that the income tax is fairly shared. He once said our fellow mayor who had cancer or I had been getting too much or now I get too little. It's hard to determine, a factory of thousands of people has been closed, and I get equal tax incomes from income tax. In order to avoid suspicion of this, but also to create together certain measures, as the IRS itself will not be able to achieve the results of all colleagues and colleagues in their address only with the help of this hardware or software, but in joint action and with local self-government. We all welcome the adoption of this law, we think it is necessary but I say we should and foresee a greater availability of data. A clear classification that not everyone can read and publish publicly if there is information that carries a conditional code of secrecy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61843	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61844	All I have to do is answer my colleague in one sentence. In a certain way, I support everything he said, but we need to understand that local self-government by the content of the work he's doing, you might say I know how to baptize it like this as the management of a municipal company is 70, 80% of the jobs related to a particular communal problem. But if the local administration doesn't care what these revenues are, as they come from certain sources, it absolutely stands. And in that sense, I think that relationship with the tax administration should be absolutely tighter or more quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61845	And final review by State Secretary Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61846	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is the short end, above all, of course, the satisfaction in person and in the name of the government... finance, as we have heard all clubs support the amendment and addition of the Tax Administration Act and from the debate, it is seen how much the OIB itself and the whole system that we are implementing and which will fully revive from 1.1.2011 as it is recognised as an extremely important and meaningful tool. At the same time let me have a lot of debates either from individual representatives and MPs and in the context of discussions by clubs and within individual I would say what experiencedly very well know the work of the Tax Administration, so it was extremely nice to hear that they recognize not only the efforts that the Tax Administration and its employees make, but also the very importance of the Tax Administration is recognised. I'm going to quote one of the MPs who said "under these conditions financial control and financial discipline must be going first". To mention my colleague director, he's today I'll make it very clear for very justified reasons absent, not for reasons that the distinguished representative stated even though he was corrected to be a lapus. Here I am here today on his behalf along with a colleague and colleague who have actually worked very hard on this law, of course, with other people in the IRS. Let me finally look back at a few observations and a few of the comments you've made. So as far as the phase or the two stages I mentioned in the opening statement are concerned. Therefore, these two phases and the implementation of the OIB and did not exclude each other in any case. Let me just say one thing, so the first phase of implementation of the OIB lasted almost six months. So, we started at 1.1.2009 with an OIB assignment and in the first three months, we did a lot of work, and the last one we actually assigned there somewhere in June. At the same time, during the implementation of that first phase and the assignment of personal identification numbers itself, we were working precisely on this topic that we discussed today in the Assembly. Also, to an observation we heard that this law went too late. Let me also say, so at the initial stage of implementation we really thought that the Personal Identification Number Act itself would be sufficient. However, the experience and practice we have learned over the months has actually shown that an additional legal act should be implemented, i.e. to implement those provisions in this Tax Administration Act. As for the work and work of the IRS, so as far as these records are concerned, we've had enough, there's been a lot of discussion about records, first of all real estate, and most often in our practice about cars. I'm sure it's not the only two records, but let me also say that there's a lot going on in that segment, and there's a lot that's been improved and improved. However, in order not to have someone here think that and ask why we need these amendments and additions to the law in the first place and why, if we have already done records, if we have already gone into certain controls if the disproportionateness between assets and receipts is observed in accordance with Article 63. However, what is extremely important to say, we are now getting one far more efficient, much more accurate and ultimately a much more quality tool because, based on these changes and additions, in fact through the system of automation, employees or employees of the Tax Administration are activated and going directly to the ground to control. Also, as far as this link and networking of individual bodies at the level of the state administration are concerned, let me also say that this same extremely large progress seems to be in a small segment, so the residence records, something that I would say in the possession of the Ministry of the Interior. If a change of residence occurs, it is practically updated in time for a few seconds and is aligned with the OIB records. So, also as regards the very often mentioned subject of the death certificate. So, if there is a case that one of the taxpayers or citizens has passed away, that record is also automatically updated. And with that in mind, I'm bringing in the next topic that you've opened here in the debate, and I find it extremely important, but I also see that a good part of you has recognized these amendments and additions to the Tax Administration Act. So, if we weren't with a personal identification number, it wasn't just intending to look at the perspective of the IRS and the official records, but exactly what we're really predicting these changes and additions, so there are some other public bodies that can be and should be users of this tool in a way that, first of all, in the social care system, they can benefit from these data. So already mentioned examples related to certain forms of social assistance and let us call such disproportionateness between the debtors certain that something that the personal identification number will actually serve as a tool or instrument that such things do not naturally happen anymore. And you saw also in this law yourself, very well, that link between the body that owns a particular data and the body that is the user and the bond between them that makes tax administration again as we heard the coordinating body. Here's the thing about your comments and your debates. Once again in the end, let me thank everyone for the debate and once again show my satisfaction that you will support these changes and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61847	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. This concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. It's been 13.30 a.m. on our usual pace of work, I'm announcing a break. We will continue at 15, and there will be a patent law on the agenda as set out in the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61848	Second, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Administration Act. It was an emergency procedure. The Proposer is the Government. I am voting on the final proposal of the law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? Unanimity with 98 votes to pass the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61849	We continue the afternoon session with point 3. - Final bill amending and supplementing the patent law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 633 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ruđer Friganovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61850	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. So here's the short term meaning the area of patents was regulated by a law that came into force on 1 January 2004 but was then in high compliance with the EU acquis. Since then, it has been changed three times in 2005, 2007, and in 2009 also in line with the relevant amendments made by the EU to its directives. This area is well in line with the acquis that the fact that Chapter 7 governing the area in negotiations with the EU is closed in December 2008 with the only obligation to continue to work on harmonisation. And this is another alignment where the Institute is actually further editing the additional protection certificates, in a way that further extends the protection for paediatric medicinal products. It is not necessary to provide additional resources for the implementation of this law in the national budget, and as the proposal for an emergency procedure is set out in Article 161 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament where such an option is allowed for those regulations that actually lead to compliance with the EU acquis. Here's your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61851	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. They're clubs first. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's esteemed representative, Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61852	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. By signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to ensure that the level of protection of intellectual property is similar in the EU. According to the proposal of this law, the organisation of the Institute of Evidence of Additional Protection for medicinal products intended for human or animal use shall be introduced. It is therefore proposed to introduce a definition for the institute for the extension of the additional protection certificate, an exception is introduced for the extension of the period of the testimony, it is prescribed where the extension of the period of the testimony is not possible, the assumptions for the submission of the application for extension of the certificate of additional protection are prescribed, the content and the contributions to be submitted in the application for the extension of the period of the licence and the obligation to pay the application for extension of the licence and a number of other matters. Therefore, the proposed law, in addition to compliance with the European acquis, also lays down the conditions for the application of the latest amendments in the area of protection of patents for inventions relating to medicinal products in this case, in particular to further extension of protection for paediatric medicinal products. For all these reasons, the HNS Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61853	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61854	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. The HDZ Club supports the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the patent law. First, because it is about our international obligations and obligations to join the EU. With the entry into force of the 2003 patent law, Croatia has largely fulfilled the obligations to bring Croatian legislation into line with patents with the EU acquis. In the meantime, however, there has been a change, i.e. Regulation 1768/92 of the EU Parliament and of the Council since 18 June 1992. By way of derogation from Regulation 469/09, the EU Parliament and the Council on 6 May 2009. The proposed amendments to the patent law fully align this area with the current EU rules. That is to say, the patent law introduces an amendment and regulates the Institute's evidence of additional protection. What is important to mention when it comes to the patent law that Croatia is not only in its legislation but in all activities following and following the latest trends of innovation policy in the EU. In today's global knowledge economy, intellectual capital and innovation as commercialised knowledge, and then patents become the cornerstone of economic competitiveness of the particularly processing industry. When innovation policy is at stake, then perhaps a chance to say about this law that the aim of innovation policy is to put knowledge in the function of economic growth through innovation, including patents as a driver of economic growth. And that is why we think it is important to apply and follow all those documents that have in some way marked a turn in the EU's innovation policy of green '95 innovation paper. In which it is defined that the EU has a strong research potential, but that it is a weak innovation potential. That's what happened to the so-called. European absurdity where the EU has an extremely strong research potential and research results in relation to other developed countries such as the USA, such as Japan, etc. but they are not at the same time a guarantee of economic growth. And clearly there was a twist in that policy. Therefore, the need for stronger cooperation of science and economy, market exploitation, innovation research, and the first innovation action plan of '96, then the Lisbon Declaration on the transformation of the European Union into the most competitive and dynamic knowledge economy, and also adds that in the 2002 Barcelona Declaration, which refers to doubling investment in the European Union into research, so on 3% of the European Union's gross social product and insisting on stronger cooperation with science and economy, where industry or economy would be involved in research and development with 2/3 while the public sector with 1/3 and research with particular emphasis on information and communication technology and biotechnology. In the end, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Patent Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61855	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. He's the first respected representative of Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61856	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. I've been assigned to talk about this... May I, Mr. Vice President... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61857	You're the only one who got the word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61858	The topic I'm interested in and what I'm dealing with, which is probably why I got this assignment, is an intellectual property issue. Intellectual property is certainly important at the moment when Croatia is about to join the European Union to adapt to all this because intellectual property represents one category of fears that exists in circles in Croatia, especially in the segment of action that I represent in a certain way. These are various types of design, spatial planning that are covered through the work of chambers. However, of course by supporting the fact that the Republic of Croatia is obliged to ensure the level of protection of intellectual property at a similar level that exists in the European Union and that we are working on it and that this law is attached. The only possible doubt is placed in a word that says similar. Whether there's some sliding resistance in it or not, similar or equal, I don't know if those two terms are set there for a reason. And as for the very subject that is actually covered by this law, it's practically a single segment that I'm not even competent to do, and it doesn't represent anything. it is a matter of compliance with the European acquis, and it refers practically to medicines, and as I see in Article 1 of the proposal itself, the law has been recognised to protect medicinal products for paediatric use. So I don't see anything in this that would be controversial, and in that sense I support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61859	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61860	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, Director, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are facing another legislative proposal, such as a series of those that we have already discussed and adopted during the previous period, that is, the previous few years, and which national legislation is in line with legislation, or the legal property of the European Union, this time in the area of intellectual property or intellectual property. So today we are discussing the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Patent Act, which has been the subject of the patent area in the Republic of Croatia and which this House of Higher House adopted since 2003, which has started to apply since the beginning of 2004. Here, it is necessary to stress that the adoption of the law in question and has practically begun the harmonisation of Croatian legislation in the field of intellectual property, i.e. from patents with the acquis of the European Union. It is not even to mention the fact that the harmony in this segment was indeed at a very high level at that time. Thus, by adopting the 2003 patent law, the Republic of Croatia has significantly guaranteed the level of protection of intellectual property, at least in the area of patents, similar to those existing in the European Union countries, and has thus in part fulfilled its obligation under the Stabilisation and Association process of the European Union, which is prescribed by the provision of Article 71. Stabilisation and Association Agreements. Of course, we continued to fulfil this obligation in the coming period, following all the currentities of the legal property of the community that occurred in the meantime. As a result of such access and mode of work, the amendments and additions to the patent law that followed in 2005, 2006 and 2009, of course this proposal, of course, amending and supplementing the law, are precisely the result of such a way of working, but also the obligation to implement all newspapers of the legal property of the community in the national legislative framework. For the sake of understanding, I'm going to say a few sentences about what is actually a patent and what is the meaning of it. According to the definition, the patent is exclusively a right recognised for a particular invention that offers a new solution to a technical problem and is recognised for inventions relating to manufacturing processes or certain application. The procedure for the recognition of patents in the Republic of Croatia shall be carried out by the State Institute for Intellectual Property on the basis of a patent application from an inventor’s application for patent recognition and in accordance with the provisions of the law in question and the patent Regulation. The basic conditions that an invention must satisfy in order to be recognised by a patent at all are novelty in relation to the existing state of technique, inventive level and industrial applicability. In order to achieve patent protection for its invention, the inventor is obliged to disclose technical details of the invention within the scope of which it enables experts from specific areas of design or use of this invention. Such a description of the inventions after a certain period of secrecy becomes publicly available to all interested, which basically means that the patent system represents some kind of exchange in which the inventor agrees to reveal to society the details of his invention in order to allow technological progress in society, and in exchange he receives the right of exclusive availability of invention during a certain period of time. Therefore, this patent protection shall be valid for 20 or 10 years from the date of application of the patent, depending on whether the patent is based on complete examination or without complete examination or so on. Consensual patent. Here, it is still necessary to say that protection of patents is achieved according to the territorial principle, which means that protection of invention applies only to the territory of a country in which the right or patent is recognised. However, protection can be achieved on the territory of other countries and states in one of the following ways. Therefore, by submitting a private application to the competent office of each country, then submitting an international application under the Treaty on Cooperation in the area of patents for the countries signatories of that contract and finally submitting applications for a European patent through one of the regional offices of the European Patent Organisation. Therefore, international regional patent systems allow for the submission of one application in one place with a simultaneous legal effect in several countries. Finally, the proposed amendments to the patent law achieves full compliance of our legal framework with the legal property of the European Union in the area of patent rights, i.e. it is further aligned with the provisions of Regulation No 469 of 2009 which refers to the certificate of additional protection in the case of medicinal products. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law provide for the introduction of a new institute which refers to the extension of the additional protection certificate. This institute is introduced as an exception and concerns the extension of the period of the licence for an additional six months in cases where the patent has been recognised as a medicinal product for paediatric use and, where the medicinal product is authorised for marketing in all Member States of the European Union. Of course, a complete procedure has been laid down from the application for the extension of the period of the licence to the approval of the application or the declaration of the licence or the extension of its duration in vain. Finally, respecting everything previously said, and above all the fact that these amendments and additions to our patent law are fully aligned with the acquis of the European Union. I will personally support his adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61861	Thank you. And the esteemed representative Goran Heffer is up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61862	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. In fact, the question of patents or intellectual property protection has been very developed worldwide, and what we have ahead of us is the same issue but in the field of medicines, or pharmaceutical industries. The pharmaceutical industry is very specific in terms of the development of a particular product, above all, as regards the application of these products to human beings, i.e. animals, and the whole set of research that has to be carried out for a very long time. Therefore, those preclinical and clinical studies, etc. are also needed. to ensure that the medicinal product is completely safe and reliable for human health and that the medicinal product is placed on the market and that it is protected by a particular patent. Although the application is submitted at an early stage often this sustainability of the procedure itself means that up to about ten years has been going on since the patent application, and we know that 20 years is the duration of a particular patent. So for half the time it's almost gone when the patent is made. Therefore, many countries, above all the United States, and likewise the European Union have introduced this extension so-called... which serves precisely for the extension of this age of patents, i.e. to say the economic justification for the patent manufacturer for the medicinal product. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] With us in the Republic of Croatia, it is regulated by law by the evidence of additional protection for medicinal products intended for human and animal or plant protection and plant protection. I say measures have introduced many countries. The European Union is only one of them. Besides them, I don't know the United States, Japan, Australia, Russia, Israel, South Korea, etc. Practically all developed countries have that. What is aimed at such an extension is that at least those 15 years, so lifespan patents really manage to be regulated. In order to encourage innovative companies that know and can and have the means to invest in development, primarily medicines for children, therefore in pediatrics is encouraged by this one so-called. by the explosives of such development and that is what the European Union has introduced. I repeat other countries and Croatia is practically joining the European Union, so in this regard. Therefore, taking into account the whole set of conditions or criteria that a pharmaceutical company dealing with paediatric products needs to be satisfied with this Act, Croatia says joins the European Union in a very good form of encouraging pharmaceutical companies that work for the benefit of children. Therefore, it is a matter of amending and supplementing laws that contribute to the development of pharmaceutical products, i.e. medicines for the health of children, and in this respect this is a very useful law, and I will therefore support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61863	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61864	Third, Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the patent law. Same emergency procedure, P.Z. 633. Proposer of the Government. I am voting on the draft law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? Unanimity with 99 votes for the proposed law. Report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2010. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: Report accepted. Please, let's get on with it. He will, he just needs to know. Gentle, but resolute or vice versa. The result? With 99 votes for and 1 abstention of the proposed report, the report's conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61866	We're moving on to point four. This is - The report on the use of pre-accession programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2010 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which delivers the report in accordance with the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament delivered at the 16th session held on 6 October 2005. You received the materials by mail. The debate was held: the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivana Maletic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61867	Honorable Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's another one of our regular reports on the half-year use of pre-accession aid programmes and fund preparations. What is important is that in this report, we have particularly highlighted the preparations that are being worked precisely for the use of funds that we will actually be able to get when we become a Member State, and that is why it is particularly pointed out in the report that here, early and sufficiently systematicly and strategically, we are working on making as much use of the funds available to us in the financial envelope as possible, i.e. the financial package itself will be precisely defined during the conclusion of the negotiations and we will see how many locations there will be for the Republic of Croatia that are finally determined after the conclusion of the negotiations. What is important is that pre-accession aid programmes are divided into those two generations: older generation – CARDS, PHARE, ISPA and SAPARD and the new generation of IPA. And we gave the report a review for the old generation, or first generation, to see in one place all the percentages in the first table, and indeed the percentages actually show that the results of the first generation agreement were good, we can see now for ISPA, where all the infrastructure projects were agreed and that the overall state of the agreement was 94.91, PHARE we already had on, in previous reports that the contracts were above 85%, which is actually a good result. IPA is therefore a programme that is now under way, it is a programme from this financial perspective of the European Union which is also now ongoing, so in 2007 to 2013, we have an allocation in 2007-2011, and the assumption is that in 2012 and 2013, there will be allocations when we are a member state. In this period, you can also see in the report what the results are related to the settlement under certain IPA programmes, and what is important were the issues highlighted on individual committees regarding the settlement in the operational programme of transport and environmental protection, it was noted that the report is a very low percentage of the agreement and is in the report on 30 June, what is important to take into account that these two programmes are about infrastructure projects, so there are several but large projects, and when one contracted percentage immediately grows, so that in fact new data, I have taken them now out of the system, for transport, since 25.10th contracted Zagreb is the main signalling system, the percentage of the contract is 17.2%, and in the environment, since the first part of Slavonski Brod and the first part of Drnish, and the first part of the project is already in the second part of these two projects. When these additional two parts are agreed on, it will be more than 25%, so about what the European Commission really expects us to do at the moment, and because what they have now assessed for the otherwise pre-accession programme system is to see progress that has been accelerated bargaining, this is best seen in component one, you probably noticed in the report the component of the PHARE programme, that here is now for, the IPA 2007 deadline for the contract is November, the end of November of this year, but we already had a percentage of 64.2% in June. At this point we have over 85%, and otherwise the PHARE contracted for two months, almost 90% of it has been negotiated for the last two months, and this IPA component shows that it's really accelerated, that we've done it all on time, and that there's no more pressure on the terms of the contract and that there's something going on at the last minute. So the system was slowly stalking, we were teaming up, and it started going one good way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61868	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61869	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and deputies, Madam Secretary of State with an associate. At the beginning of this debate, I would like to remind myself of some facts, where Croatia was located and where it is today when we talk about joining the European Union, because talking about withdrawing funds from pre-accession funds means reminding ourselves of a difficult road, a long-standing road that Croatia enters to sit at the table for which it belongs. On 21 February 2003, the Republic of Croatia submitted its application for membership in the European Union. In April 2004, the European Commission issued a positive opinion on Croatia's application for membership in the European Union. On 18 June 2004, the Republic of Croatia became a candidate country. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement entered into force on 1 February 2005. And on 3 October 2005, negotiations were opened on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The accession of Croatia to the European Union is a long-term process that lasts for 7 years, and it is important to make all necessary efforts to technically complete the negotiations, and to sign the accession treaty, during the Hungarian Presidency of the European Union, so by the end of June of next year. Of course, our priority right now should be to close the remaining chapters and draw up the accession treaty for the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The Croatian Peasant Party with special optimism awaits this year's progress report, and we also hope to receive a concrete time frame to complete the negotiations as soon as possible. In the context of the negotiations process, the Republic of Croatia has benefited and still benefited from different pre-accession programmes of the European Union, which were primarily designed to strengthen state institutions, with a view to faster integration into the European Union system, and to make good use of European funds in the future when our country becomes a member of the European Union. The implementation of the previous pre-accession aid programmes has gained valuable knowledge and experience to prepare for the use of European funds, more than 600 signed projects worth more than 320m euros, in the period from 1 January to 30 June 2010, the European Commission allocated 20,65m euros to the national fund. The funds were allocated to the PHARE, ISPA, IPA components 2, 3, 4 and 5, and until 30 June 2010, the European Commission was requested funds for programmes of 338.43 million kuna and 317,33 million kuna have been allocated. The difference between the funds requested and the resources allocated is due to the internal procedure of the European Commission, so that it takes 3 to 4 months for payment at the expense of the National Committee. Since the first generation of pre-accession programmes, the agreement has been completed for CARDS, PHARE and SAPHAARD programmes, and in the final phase is a negotiation for ISPA. The allocations were successfully used, which confirms the percentages of contracts of individual programmes that exceed 85%. The ISPA concluded 6 individual funding memos, which approve the financing of projects totalling 123.05m euros, 59m euros from the ISPA programme, while the remaining amount is co-financed from the financing of the Republic of Croatia. Often, conflicting information is heard in the public, sometimes malicious, and even political accusations, that pre-accession funds in the Republic of Croatia are not used to a sufficient extent, as we see from this report do not correspond to the truth. This does not mean that more effort should be made and more effort should be made, but it is also necessary to present the results achieved in the public where we often see that there is an unwarranted view of the unpreparedness of projects and the poor use of pre-accession programmes. Many counties have formed their departments for European integration, many of which have formed their own development agencies. Some are doing great, some have actually hired people from the profession, and unfortunately in some counties there are problems with production of quality projects and the success of applications because instead of experts in these agencies, they have engulfed responsible party staff or coalition partners, which will prove to be a bad way in the long term because every new competition for pre-accession funds and later structural funds is increasingly demanding and therefore it is important to have qualified people. So, people who know, who are distinguished by quality, not people who are members of a particular party or tribal clan. I'd like to highlight here a good example of the development agency. We believe in the HSS that a good example is the Regional Development Agency of Slavonia and Baranja, which opened an office in Brussels. They would say it works full-time, so a total of 43 EU-funded EU projects of more than 50 million kuna have been approved over the last 3 years. I want to look here specifically at the pre-accession programme that has ended, and it is directly in the interest of the farmer. It's about Sapard. SAPARD in the Republic of Croatia is characterized by high project values. The average support is somewhere around 3 million kuna per project with a relatively weak dispersion of only 49 projects. Due to complicated procedures, the programme does not seem to have gained great popularity among farmers, and the entire system of preparation of the SAPARD project has proved complicated for small users, especially the family holding and crafts, because the complicated procedure requires large costs, primarily the implementation of the project itself and small projects are shown to be completely invaluable, and has also insisted on documents that are not common in the business world. It is now an ongoing IPARD programme on which no greater number of applications have been made than was the case in the SAPARD. There are a lot of limiting elements in the IPARD plan itself, and there is also a number of new documents that have not been requested in the SAPARD. The procedures are becoming more and more complicated, both because of the increased number of criteria and because of the European Commission’s auditor’s demands, and we must say that there is also an underdeveloped network of consultants on the ground. So here, once again, I would like to appeal on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS also to the Development County agencies, but also to the Agency for Payments in Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture to assist agricultural family economies in preparing and writing projects because they will have difficulty doing this on their own. I believe that in the future, the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, which has recently changed the law in the framework of its activities, will also receive the advisory service, and therefore we have the right to think that it will be capacitated to assist agricultural economies in writing projects. The money that lies in the funds and that is waiting for us when we join the EU, and when we talk about agriculture, it is 800m euros, should be used wisely to help small agricultural family economies because the big one takes care of itself anyway. We would also like to point out that, of course, through these negotiations and talks with the European Commission and through the national strategic reference framework for 2012/2013. are defined areas of investment to be financed from cohesion policy. It is about transport, the environment, energy, regional competitiveness, the development of human resources and strengthening of state administration. According to our information, these priorities are set for 2.2 billion euros for all these areas, and it is certainly big money that can only be consumed if we have quality projects. And maybe one more sentence about the objections that went to the IPA's expense. In part, the State Secretary mentioned projects to be financed from IPA's infrastructure and environmental protection. I want to mention capital projects here, the Okucani-Novska railway for which 20m euros are foreseen, Zagreb-Government 10m euros and documentation for the railway Long Selo-Novska 5.5m euros or for the area of the environment where county waste management centres will be financed where 10 to 12m euros are provided for by the centre. Therefore, here is the report and all said club representatives of the HSS will support this report on the use of EU pre-accession assistance programmes for the period from January 01 to 30 June 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61870	Thank you. It's SDP's turn, the esteemed representative of Tonino Picula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61871	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. It is indisputable that the Croatian economy is in recession. It is a recession that has been going on for a long time, and the best way to start a new investment cycle and to recover the economy is certainly investment. Croatia's money for such investments is obviously missing, foreign investors are getting smaller, so the money from EU funds is intended for Croatia as a new member is practically the only one we can safely count on next year. If forecasts are made that Croatia could become an official member of the EU only in 2012 and 2013, more than 3.5 billion euros should be made available to public companies and public authorities and local self-government authorities. The most important part of this money totals 2 billion and 392m euros will be aimed at encouraging economic growth and employment. So there are somewhat more tangible claims that this could bring about a new cycle of economic growth, but it's coming to this right now, but only if we're able and we know how to use it. The global financial crisis has caused a huge drop in foreign direct investment in Croatia. Unlike 2008 when they amounted to more than 4 billion euros last year, they decreased by more than 50%. A billion and 870 billion euros. Such a sharp drop in foreign capital in Croatia in such a short time resulted in a serious drop in economic activity, as domestic companies have almost completely halted their investment cycles due to monetary poverty. But this means that in 2012 with money from the Union funds, the amount of direct foreign investment in Croatia could be returned to at least the level of 2008, which is a key condition for the overall economic activity to return to the level from that period. To take advantage of this opportunity, the Croatian government will have to make key adjustments as quickly as possible, money from the European Funds will be allocated to Croatia on the basis of the proposed projects and in the form of co-financing. It means that the European Union will only approve the allocation of money once the projects are presented to it and that these projects will co-finance up to 80%, depending on the rules of the fund from which the money is received. In order to use money from the funds, Croatia will have to raise significant money to finance its parts of the projects. Although these amounts vary in general, it is believed that Croatia will have to invest between 20 and 30 cents on each euro derived from the European Union funds. If it wants to use a billion euros in its first year of membership, the government will have to invest a minimum of 200m euros. Croatia currently lacks that money, and given the growing budget deficit, it is not realistic to expect that money to be found soon. Many economic experts believe that the government should already start state spending reforms today to manage to allocate enough money into the budget in 2011 to co-finance European projects. Therefore, in the first three years of EU membership, Croatia will need a minimum of 800m euros to co-finance the European Union's projects. Only a small part of this money will be spent on its own by the central state, but since local self-government authorities and a significant part of the real sector cannot currently finance these projects themselves, it is clear that the state will have to help them. However, as things now look for all the efforts we are going to make, we can be happy if in the first year of membership we draw half of the money we have booked, or 650 million euros. According to sources from relevant sites, the assessment of the usefulness of European money is even less optimistic and says that out of 3.5 billion in two years, we will be able to draw only 700m euros. If we weren't trained to use this money completely, we're talking about the usability of pre-accession funds, and we're certainly whispering here especially in the SAPARD that we've only used 62%. So, if we failed to realise 150 million euros at our disposal last year, we would hardly be able to withdraw 10 times as much money in 2012. Recently, Paul Van Doren, the representative of the European Union in Croatia, said something that should concern us. So, when you become a member of the quantity of funds will increase and it is necessary to have the necessary infrastructure, which is not the case now, good projects should already start to be prepared because if this does not happen, Croatia could not benefit enough from these funds. In the Austrian Chamber of Commerce's newsletter, it said, although Croatian Finance Minister proudly spoke of the use of EU funds, reality is different. Croatia has so far withdrawn only 2.42% of the approved sum from the IPA Fund. This amount is even if the implementation of ongoing projects is rather modest, especially since the entry into the European Union is getting closer every day. There is much left to do and, unfortunately, there is often a lack of good projects. Thus, fiscal centralised in Croatia could also be a major obstacle to the successful use of money from the European Union funds. The largest Croatian County of Split-Dalmatia, which has 600,000 inhabitants, has an annual budget of up to 700 million kuna, when fixed costs for employees' salaries and the financing of necessary services such as schools, hospitals and the like, there is almost nothing left for projects. Already part of the Union's funding is related to regional projects and Croatia will have to significantly increase the financial power of local self-government units if it wants to take advantage of a significant part of these Funds. The positive environment for Croatia is the fact that the European Union has been particularly generously funding large infrastructure projects in recent years, however, because of the economic crisis and lack of money, the state has cancelled a number of planned projects and has radically reduced spending in the sector. A considerable number of companies are in trouble. Since the sector employs around 11% of all workers in Croatia, it generates about 6% of the gross domestic product of the construction crisis has caused major problems for the domestic economy. However, of course we have positive examples and should repeat them, it is said that here it has already been said, about Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County, which from different programming frameworks, pre-accession European Union funds have attracted 45 million kuna over the past two years for 43 approved projects. The results are numerous NGOs, local administrations and self-government units, institutions, state-owned enterprises, institutions, and regional development of Slavonia Agency and deforestation founded 4 years ago. Thanks to them, Osijek County is the most successful in Croatia in withdrawing money from the European Funds, which was confirmed in early February when the results of the first IPA cross-border cooperation contest Croatia – Hungary, which brought a total of 19 million and 400 thousand kuna to the address of 25 project partners from the county area. In the first two years of membership, possibly 12 and 13 for direct payments to farmers and funds for rural development and fisheries, the European Union plans to pay 750m euros annually to Croatia. Of course, the amount of money used will depend on us again. However, the Union's rules on incentives in agriculture could force Croatia to finally start reforming its agricultural support system. In short, Croatia will no longer be able to encourage farmers' economies, regardless of their size, but the money from the European Union funds, with an extremely small share of co-financing users, will be conditioned by rounding up agriculture. In this way, Croatia's agriculture should become significantly more competitive, and given the potential for exports to the Union market and the labour price that remains lower in Croatia than in other Member States, Croatia is an extremely negative balance of imports and exports of agricultural products should be improved. Such an effect has been achieved in some other countries after joining the European Union. In Poland, exports of agricultural products rose from 4 to 11 billion and 300 million euros after joining the European Union. The Croatian government will have to step up its efforts to exploit money from the European Union funds as soon as possible, which was recently warned by Jean-Luc Demarti, director of the Agriculture and Rural Development Department in the European Union in writing. Who voiced concern about the government's ineffectiveness, with a warning that Croatia has lost a great deal of money from various funds in past failures. Demarti warned that by the end of February, only 37 projects financed by the SAPARD funds were organised by the Republic of Croatia and added that there is an obvious need for greater efforts to realise projects paid by the European Union. Last 2009 Croatia used only 93 million kuna from the programme, barely slightly more than 50% of the insurance funds, while 90 million simply collapsed. A similar situation continues. If the Croatian government had managed to train the state administration to co-operate with the EU this year, only the SAPARD would have reached about 150m euros, but half the amount is expected due to a weak organisation. An example of the city of Karlovac was given to the government's recommendations seven years ago to rebuild the city's sewerage, and so far nothing has been done. During that same period, Latvia was renewed in 10 cities thanks to the same EU funds. That is why experts fear that if the government does not speed up the development of projects co-financed by EU funds soon, there is a risk that our country will be at a financial loss for the next few years to join the EU. How? Because if we get about 500m euros from the Union as a future member, we will be paying 600m euros in the budget there. There's something to be said about the abuse of Eurofunds. Last year, the number of frauds in the use of EU funds increased. The European Commission published an annual report on the protection of the Union's financial interests and the fight against fraud on 14 July. This is about areas of agricultural incentives, cohesion policy and pre-accession assistance to Member States. When pre-accession funds are used, the number of cases reported from 14 countries receiving assistance means 12 Member States and 2 candidate countries. The number rose by 35% to a total of 117m euros. The number of irregularities reported in the area of agricultural subsidies has increased by 43% to 125m euros. The number of irregularities suspected of fraud in the area of regional aid has increased from 57m to 109m euros. In Olaf's report, Croatia is mentioned only in the context of one case, attempts to re-export sugar from Russia to Croatia on the basis of which companies from Kalinja's city have unwarrantedly paid export incentives worth 200,000 euros. The facts would say that our honesty in this case is fully proportionate to our ability and activities to attract and use money from European access funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61872	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61873	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I would like to express my satisfaction with this report and with the use of pre-accession funds, and I would like to say that we will accept this proposal. The fact that sometimes perceptions are obtained in the public and it is an incorrect perception that EU funds are being used poorly. So here we're hearing different data here today, one of the data from the secretary of state, which I have in this material, and another from the previous club. The fact is that a communication strategy is needed but not only around European funds but also around the EU, and I believe that we will be working on it more and more, because it is something that we can bring our citizens and citizens closer to what the EU means and what pre-accession funds are. Pre-accession funds, if we have followed well, are set up to strengthen state institutions, and all with a view to faster integration into the EU system, and with the aim of making better use of European funds when the country becomes an EU member, and we hope that it will be 2012. We have achieved valuable knowledge and experience through this time. There are some data in this material that says that more than 600 signed projects worth more than 320m euros, that more than 700 employees in state and public institutions, that this fact made the Republic of Croatia good experts, that 79 Croatian companies provided services and that in this way the private sector acquired certain knowledge and that we participated in 187 grants projects. During this reporting period, the European Commission has provided 20.65m euros for the PHARE and ISPA programmes and the IPA components 2, 3, 4, 5 IPARD on behalf of the National Fund, and we asked the European Commission for programmes of 338.43m euros by 30 June 2010, with 317,33m euros and that those funds were successfully used and exceeded 85%. Also since the first generation of pre-accession programmes, the negotiation has been completed almost for CARDS, PHARE, SAPARD and the ISPA programme is in the final phase. As we know under the IPA programme there is an ongoing negotiation and implementation of the contract for all IPA components. And here when we talk about IPA component 1 is the fact that we see great progress. This is a continuation of the PHARE programme and that already in June during this reporting period we had 64.2% of the funds used, and today we already have over 85%. So they're not as pessimistic as we've heard before. The overall contract status of all projects is 94.91%. The fact is, the SAPARD, even though it wasn't really our subject today, was something worse used, but we also said what the reasons were. The reasons are, as you know, the fragmentation of households, rural estates, and the lack of training of farmers themselves, as well as incentives that are still in place and that are easier to come by and probably the reason why something is less motivated. However, when we look at how much investment is being invested in education and we could see in this material, the final draft national strategic reference plan for 2012-2013 was agreed, the areas of investment to be financed from cohesion policy, mainly transport, the environment and energy, regional competitiveness, human resources development, the strengthening of the state administration in which the judiciary is involved. A list of project proposals for the use of European funds has also been drawn up, and the identification and analysis of proposed projects in individual portfolios is under way. The activities related to the preparation of projects are also monitored by the government's Commission for Co-ordination of Preparations for the Use of EU Funds, and this commission was established in February of this year. There is also a certain institutional framework covering the institutions that have been authorised to work in the IPA programme and this institutional development strategy, there is a detailed overview of the content and transition to the implementation of future European funds, and there is also an assessment of the necessary employees and education for 2013 based on the evaluations of the jobs that await us, which are the Strategy and the requirement of Chapter 22. Educational plans have also been expressed, as far as I know, developed training for the area of financial management and the control of funds used by the European Union funds. The public is also informed in a way that all of these projects are being opened and organized, and when projects are closed, the ceremony is also organised to present the objectives and results of these projects. In any case, we cannot expect everything from the state level, it needs to be included at all levels. We know that county development agencies have been established, but it varies their activity from one county to another. We also know that some counties have established, founded their offices in Brussels and thus have also stepped up their activities, so we need to get involved at all levels. So also when we have heard now that there will be no funding in the state budget, I do not want to be so pessimistic, I believe that if the European Union is going to co-finance 80% of the projects after the project is presented around 20% should be financed by the Republic of Croatia, and this does not mean the state but the municipalities, cities and counties. So it must already be counted on in time for budgeting and budget projections to leave 20% of the funds for these projects. I wouldn't agree if there weren't any good projects. Projects have only projects to know how to find, projects should be designed, an appropriate programme should be found and competition from pre-accession assistance means, a project should be designed, it should be managed, and perhaps there is the biggest problem in project management, with the application itself, later evaluations, and all of this depends on training, and as far as we can see, the state has invested to train employees at all levels. And if we remember well, there is a ban on employment in the Republic of Croatia when it comes to state institutions, but when it comes to matters of cooperation with the European Union, that provision is not worth the resulting fact that we are certainly on the best track to prepare well. More than 3.5 billion are ahead of us, we'll be available. I wouldn't say we wouldn't know how to use them, I believe we do, and that we'll know how to use those funds because that's what they're saying, and that's all the data I've said before. But I'm saying we all need to get involved, and the state and the cities and the municipalities and the county, and I believe that's when success won't go away. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports this report and we will monitor the situation further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61874	Thank you. And on behalf of the HNS club, HSU's distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61875	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I'll start with one sentence that you'll find on the first page of this material. In recent years, other than projects relevant to its overall development, Croatia has received experts who have acquired valuable and specific skills in using funds, which represents a huge investment in the future. I will now try to show how successful these experts are and whether they are actually more successful year by year or not. On the second page we have a general assessment done and stands, the state of implementation of the first generation pre-accession aid programmes, the allocations were successfully used to confirm the percentages of contracts of individual programmes that exceed 85%. Right below that you have Table 1, look at only two horizontal sequences, allotted funds and contracted funds, and you'll see that not all the funds have been used, we know that, but we're wondering how much these funds actually amounted. So you'll see it hasn't been used over 35 million euros. These are not small funds, therefore, each percentage of non-use amounts to millions and millions of euros. Page 4. In 2004, the deadline for the negotiation of the project under the CARDS 2004 programme expired on 29 June 2007. Projects amounting to 94.6% of decentralised funds have been agreed. PHARE 2005, the deadline for the contracts of those projects was 30 November 2007, and the rate of the decentralised funds agreed was 88.2% compared to the funding appropriations. In 2006, PHARE 2006, the deadline for negotiating projects financed through PHARE 2006 was 84.8%, of the 52.8m euros intended to finance projects of ministries and other state and public administration bodies. I'll read again who this applies to. Therefore, the purpose of funding projects of ministries and other bodies of state and public administration has been agreed on by 84.8%. My colleagues and colleagues, it's not about ignorant peasants, rural areas, it's about ministries. ISPA, page 7. Negotiations are under way with the European Commission in order to extend the deadline for implementation which expires at the end of 2010. We did not get a sufficiently broad explanation of why the extension of that deadline is required. Page 10. IPA, the deadline for the contract, details are given in the second half of page 10. I'd just say, we briefly tried at the HNS club, HSU to sum up those numbers to make it as easy for us here to present that information to you, so just give me a listen to me about the IPA. Dynamics have been agreed with the European Union within which we will negotiate a certain percentage of projects so that by 30 September of this year we should have agreed on 30% of the projects within that part of the operational programme relating to transport. Instead of 30%, we agreed 1%. Then, by 30 September 2010, we should have agreed on 50% of the projects under the operational environmental protection programme. We agreed not 50%, but 1%. So, we are increasingly successful at the experts mentioned in the opening section. Then, we should also have negotiated 50% of projects in regional competitiveness by September 30th. We made an 18% deal. We should have agreed by September 30th this year 50% of the projects in the context of human potential development. We made a 38% deal. In the segment, rural development can agree with those colleagues who mentioned that it should certainly help people in rural areas to prepare these projects. They deserve special attention from those who need help. And so here I would just like to take this opportunity to point out on page 17. that by March 5th of this year 37 offers were received from which 17 were approved in that section relating to rural development. The basic question that arises and which today my colleagues and colleagues here should consider is why so few offers, why so few approved projects. Is it that people in rural municipalities are uninformed? Is it that they do not possess the knowledge needed to prepare projects? Or is it that they don't have their own resources, because they have to be participated with about 50% of the funds. Therefore, we should do a quality analysis here of the reasons why it is so and try to do something selective if this is the reason first, second or third. Furthermore, colleagues and colleagues, you have noticed that the role of the Central State Office for Development Strategy and Fund Coordination is also mentioned. When it comes to rural development, or primary agriculture, it would be interesting to hear that we have been able to really coordinate the state incentives in the area of agriculture with these funds that aim also to help achieve European standards in the agricultural segment. In fact, you all had a chance to see a report a few months ago that the European Union asked for supervision of the use of state incentives in agriculture. And we saw that at that time, a large number of deficiencies were observed, that as many as 9.5% of the cases under surveillance were observed certain irregularities. So it's certainly not good. These 9.5% irregularities, and only 4.8% of the total users of these state incentives were reviewed. The total number of irregular uses of state incentives was over 620 if we translate it statistically into the total number of people who received incentives in agriculture, then it is over 15000 incorrectly used incentives. This is not a good message to us, too, for we should be in charge of those who give such encouragement. Obviously, the absolute lack of control criteria, or the allocation of these funds, based entirely on other criteria than those that should be valid, should have been used. Therefore, our message is that colleagues and colleagues no doubt should avoid irregularities that have occurred so far. There is no doubt that we should increase the efficiency of using these funds, and no doubt we cannot be satisfied with what we call here I will read that sentence again, right, with this satisfaction, a large number of trained and professional people, it seems to me that we still have to make big, big moves here in the educational section. We especially need to help the counties, cities and municipalities that are to participate in this European story together with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61876	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61877	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Doric said it wasn't about ignorant peasants. A colleague, Doric, is not ignorant, but very broadly educated by technical knowledge. It's possible for peasants to fix both tractors and everything else. Another thing about war culture production is new technologies are being introduced and they are gaining knowledge very quickly. I also want to say what it says in the contribution to the production of milk in livestock and all other things. You mentioned the same way our peasant is able to adapt. I responsibly claim that our peasant is one of the most capable and adaptable and will surely benefit, so far there have been opportunities for capital support to be used. But I certainly believe in the future that they will be able to use these pre-accession funds as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61878	Thank you. We move on to an individual debate and is the first respected representative of Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61879	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed State Secretary with an associate. I'd like to begin by commending the report, and I'll point out only some of the facts I hold worthy. Here I will stress from the report that more than 600 projects were agreed at 320m euros, that around 700 employees in state institutions worked to prepare and implement both strategic documents and projects and control. That it means a large number of educated experts at all levels, but it is not less important that a large number of Croatian companies that provided services and were part of this project, means those who carried out the work and in such a way that the private sector also acquired knowledge and preconditions in order to be more competitive on the European market. I believe that the great value of these, too, is slightly less than 200 grants projects through which all the meaning of the units of local and regional self-government but also a number of small and medium-sized enterprises, a large number of other organisations could develop their capacities and have been given the opportunity to educate everyone about the European Union's funds. That's what I think is very important. Analysis of certain programs has been given so far in detail. They were also spoken of by the secretary of state and I don't have to repeat it specifically. But I would like to point out in particular that the preconditions for the successful use of the funds provided by the European Union for 2012 and 2013, are the preparation of quality projects, but I believe that it is even more important that these projects are part of or derived from the regional operational plans of individual counties, i.e. strategic planning documents of the Republic of Croatia to make the impact of these projects as simple as possible. So I'm talking about the coherence of all the development plans, meaning at all levels, so we can have the best effects in the end of funding from these funds. The report also shows that the European Commission has agreed on a final draft strategic reference framework for 2012 and 2013, defining investment areas to be financed from cohesion policy, i.e. transport, the environment, energy, regional competitiveness, human resources development, and strengthening state administration. These priorities will therefore be financed through five operational programmes, which contain measures to implement them and which are still being negotiated with the European Commission. But at the same time, projects are defined and applications are developed, identified and analysed proposed projects, some of them are done, and all in order to make better use of the funds, under the control of the commission that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has set up to do just that. At the beginning of my presentation, I also mentioned these, the value of these, a large number of grants projects through which units of local and regional self-government and others had the opportunity to develop their capacities, so given my experience in preparing and implementing EU projects, I would like to suggest and educate failed applicators, and here I will also point out why. It is mainly about grand schemes, meaning grants for the non-profit sector. We know that over the last few years there have been a lot of competitions, so here are the number of projects that talk about numbers, competitions have been carried out by different competent authorities, and these tenders have identified the problem that after the completion of the competitions, so the applications have been rejected at different stages, sometimes because of lack of funds, but sometimes because of unpreparedness, with the application of the implementing bodies just getting notice or the number of points they received at the evaluation, without knowing where and why they were wrong. Here is therefore no information, i.e. the education of these failed applications, so that they can correct errors in the next similar competition and apply similar projects thanks to this meaning both to the information and experience they have received in the next competition. This led to the reduction of personnel prepared to write projects, especially those employed in public institutions or local and regional self-government. The Republic of Croatia certainly wants to increase the use of EU funds, which is particularly important in the coming period, since implementation of operational programmes for the national reference strategic framework will go mainly through the grand scheme, so the introduction of detailed consultations with failed applicants in all competent authorities would be necessary to increase capacities, i.e. to teach users where they are wrong, but also to take advantage of the already developed projects standing in drawers, which have already been spent both time and energy. There is one more thing I want to point out here, one project worth paying attention to, at this point in time, to the economic situation, which is that in the framework of the EU pre-accession programme IPA 3C regional development and regional competitiveness, 19 project proposals were launched, 5 projects were approved to finance the total value of 2.6m euros by 25 October 2010. The Food Faculty, the Centre for Food Technology and Biotechnology in Zadar, has been allocated an amount of half a million euros for the cherry Maraska project as a component of functional food, aimed at producing two new functional products based on cherry maraska and equipping laboratories with sophisticated drying technology and bioactive compounds. At the Centre for Food Technology and Biotechnology in Zadar, whose space has been re-organised with the financial assistance of the city of Zadar and Zadar County, it will significantly encourage the development of scientific and technological research for the needs of the industrial sector, which will certainly contribute to the regional competitiveness of Zadar County, but also to the popularisation of the educational and research centre, centres. In the end, I really have information from my employees in Zadar County, that they have received praise, so the auditors of the European Court of Justice, but today it was about how we don't have very well-educated people. So the auditors of the European court recently visited Zadar County, praised their work and professionalism of experts, said that this is an example of the exceptional meaning of professional work and what it should look like. I also congratulate them on this occasion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61880	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61881	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, colleague Marinović, I want to thank you for mentioning something that none of us have touched so far, which is both science and scientists. In this report and in any other report, we have not had the opportunity to see how many Croatian scientists succeed in applying for FP7 tenders, how successful they are and how many problems they have in the process. They also need help, and there needs one coordination. If our academic citizens have difficulties, then we should clearly expect that all other segments of society will have such difficulties, so it is very important that what you have said, I support you and it would be good to perhaps get from the Ministry of Science or from someone else a report on how successful we are and in using these funds, and how much Croatian scientists will contribute to withdrawing funds from Brussels in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61882	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61883	My colleague Doric, I can again from the experience of Zadar County, so here is not an accident. When we began the development of the Zadar County Strategy and the withdrawal of the European Union funds, our first partner in Zadar County was a university in Zadar. You know, so they all had the opportunity to educate themselves and they had access, so they had access, they had the opportunity to see and monitor the meanings and development plans, but also the competitions. Here's the results of those, so the important thing is that there was a given possibility, those who wanted to get involved, and here's the results that you can see right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61884	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61885	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would only briefly support this report for the period from 1.1 to 30 June 2010 for the use of EU pre-accession assistance programmes, mostly because we hear very often negative reactions and criticism of the potentials used. Everything measured with 100% usability and not 100% usable is subject to criticism, but it's impossible to achieve it, but it's an important trend and it's an important direction. It is important to note also where we were, and we were in the initial position that we had neither knowledge nor experience, nor have we had programs, nor have we had people trained to make programs or implement programs. And in relation to everything that we have done in this past period, and given such a handicap in the beginning, I must express the satisfaction done because 600 projects have been implemented with 20 and some million euros, a single piece of information that encourages it has been funded. It should also be looked back at the debate of counterpart Doric who said that where there is a lag behind, or less usability, this is also in the SAPARD programme, but also in all others that it would be necessary to make an analysis, systematic analysis and see exactly what the causes and what methods to use to be more effective and to use these aid programmes. Of course that's good, but there are also objective reasons why agriculture is not, in the agricultural sector, a higher percentage of its use. What I think is most important at this point is what my colleague Picula warned me about, or did not warn, but expressed his skepticism that we would not have enough resources to use the potentials that await us in the Republic of Croatia, there will be no 200m euros. I think that we will provide these funds, it is unquestionable because we must not take advantage of the situation because of the lack of own resources, of the possibility of using and of the billions of euros, for example, in the coming years. Therefore, it is necessary to plan in the budget for these funds and not to question the use of these opportunities that we are given by entering the EU. I would also like to show satisfaction because the most common thing is irregularities when it comes to the use of access assistance programmes. I see that there are fewer of them, actually negligible in this latest report. And that's why I welcome once again the way you put this report together, but that very fact that the irregularities were almost not even that encouraging. So I accept a report like this and I'll vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61886	Thank you. And distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic is up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61887	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. He says counterpart Maric often hears criticism at the expense of the Report on the use of EU pre-accession assistance programmes. Of course, he meant clearly the criticism of the opposition. I personally think that criticism comes to a good extent with reason and right because we cannot be completely satisfied with how things develop. During last debate on European funds, which was about 3.4 months ago, my colleagues and I from the SDP club have therefore stressed that we are satisfied with the report in this regard, in a sense in which it is better than the previous ones, but that unfortunately not all the problems our administration faces, and even less about the reasons why things are not going in the best direction. So, I've kind of given myself a little effort and tried to find what could be found in the Croatian media in the past 6th 7 months. So, he says, "The Croatian railway is losing millions of European funds because there is no project prepared. There is now no money left in Croatia for nothing, nor for the modernisation of the railway. The only hope is actually the EU which is ready to allocate large grants for capital projects on European railway corridors." Although we have the opportunity to get millions of euros because the Rijeka-Zagreb railway, it is almost also the Zagreb-Vinkovci of European importance that we will use it because we do not have a project ready to participate in European competitions. Then the following article, which says: "European funds Croatia has used only 44% of the money." Croatia has so far taken advantage of 44% of the money available from European funds if the last pre-accession IPA fund is included, although in the public opinion, the use of excellent 90% of previous programmes is stressed. Then "The unused European funds, the collapse economy, and the donated money collapses." Croatia is partly late using funds from EU pre-accession funds. If he can't withdraw several hundred thousand euros in five years, how will he spend 2.2 billion euros from structural funds in 2 years? Then, "The opening of the Agriculture chapter in negotiations with the EU is a step closer to the entry of Croatian farmers into a demanding European agricultural market where new standards of production and sales of fruits and vegetables have long been applied. But no one in the Neretva Valley, but no one picked up any kunas from the IPARD program.", etc., etc. This could really take a while. I believe that when we discuss this topic, when we are discussing the use of pre-accession funds, whether we have used in the best possible way the funds available to us; whether we have used them for the needs of strengthening human and institutional capacities; whether, thanks to the funds so far, we have adequately prepared ourselves for the use of structural funds when we enter the European Union, we seem to be making an unnecessary and pointless mistake. And that is that when we discuss European funds, we sort of discuss them separately from reality, apart from reality. It seems to me that we're trying to work parallelly on two colossals, thinking that it's two completely separate processes, however, I believe that's not the case. European funds are one of the levers of development, only if they are actually linked to national strategies and programmes. So European funds are a lever of development, however, if they are in line with what we have as a country to our resources and potentials, our needs suit us. In other words, the programme and institutional hierarchy of the system must be consistent with the requirements of the European Union and not only that, but as a society, I think we must adopt the European methodology in preparing and defining our priorities. When assessing the results in pre-accession programmes, of course, the percentage of the use of these funds is important, but it is also important whether the funds have been used in terms of strengthening human and systematic capacity for implementation and European methodologies. Here's an example. The creation of the National Strategic Reference Framework as a basic document we have brought to the dubious territorial division of the Republic of Croatia either through NUC 2 or through NUC 3 which means that one image of the priorities of the Republic of Croatia is in this territorial division and the other is not different. So it's not about insignificant problems because, for example, having the Adriatic region as it is right now means having one priority, however, to divide that region into two and connect it to its hinterland would mean having completely different priorities. To the extent that this issue is serious, it also says the fact that even the profession is not unique when it comes to this problem, therefore, whether such a region can survive at all and not only because of the county's work, but above all because of the problem of literaryisation that separates the coastal part from its hinterland, which is the issue of the long-term development strategy of Croatia. If we don't take care of these things, we open up the process of disintegration of space in the long run, which is dangerous in the long run. Secondly, I would say that on the ground we have an extremely strong approach to misunderstanding or a misunderstanding of the European Union methodology in the design of projects. It is based on the principles of partnership, on the principles of transparency and on programming and financial subsidiarity. This in relation to the methods that we have been using so far makes a huge change that we have not used enough pre-accession funds for the education of human beings we have the phenomenon that old methods are being packed into new forms and we declare them new. For example, planning projects must also monitor the financial part, which means that in the budgets units of local self-government and other documents, we must clearly see which part we finance from our own funds, which part of the European Funds, and which part, possibly from private funds. And within that, we need to show that projects are the result of the partnership relationship of all potentially interested entities. I think it all means the need for more serious changes in the approach to project planning, programming and financing. Unfortunately, we now have a re-listing and copying of wishes that do not show what links these wishes and these projects have to do with the country's development strategy as a whole or at the end of their relationship with the priorities of the European Union. So, I think this is just one part of the problem that we're facing, it's not politics or competition that's going to be smarter, but it's really one job that my personal judgment hasn't taken to the end yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61888	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61889	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I agree in one part that it was safe to start at the beginning when even thinking about pre-accession funds and building projects were really unaccountable. However, I would like to correct the incorrect assumption in which my colleague says that there is nothing in the infrastructure regarding the railways, so I would just say, we heard that the biggest IPA project in reality is worth 40m euros from Novska-Occupied railways, and here is the report on the implementation of the economic recovery programme's implementation plan for 2010 you can read that I do not now, which is ongoing and how it is implemented, as well as the main station of the city of Zagreb, it is about the tender procedure for the project of the System of Signalling Devices at the Zagreb Main Station and there are several more.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61890	Thank you very much. We have one replica, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61891	My colleague Jerkovic, I'd just like to supplement you in that segment where you said you objected to us as an opposition to constantly criticise government reports. Namely, to criticise numbers, arguments, clear proposals for a solution, I think it is desirable to criticise and that is the purpose of the opposition, and here we disagree with you that we should withdraw and that we should accept it as a serious criticism of our work. Anyway, I think we're doing good. I don't think any of us here are happy with the situation in the Republic of Croatia and we're all looking for a way out of this bad situation. My colleague, Picula, rightly underlined the importance of European Union funds in the development sense. I would only say what he said, that according to what he said, I would add that we have never considered the overall policy of the European Union in development here. That segment of funding that the European Union allocates for the development and research of the RND will grow in the next few years with four wholes to five percent, and by so much it will decrease in the function of time precisely structural funds. It's a clear message. All those who have the opportunity to ask for help in the development segment should, in future, go more and more to those resources, withdraw them and use them in development. That's very important. We didn't take the message of a colleague of Picula seriously, we didn't discuss it. I think we need to make a big turn here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61892	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61893	Thank you. You're right, colleague Doric. What the opposition does is, in fact, when we talk about funds, it raises the question of whether the government has taken action, whether it is doing everything in connection with the preparation of a sufficient number of projects. Can we, on the basis of previous experiences, conclude what our effectiveness will be on the European Union structural funds that are opening up to us the moment we become a member of the European Union. We've got some bad examples from our neighborhood. This is the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, Slovenia lost all year in preparation, i.e. lost all year because of the unprepared state institutions. I'd hate to, but the opposition wouldn't want us to get hit by the same fate and make the use of that kind of funds the way it was in their case. I think we can do better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61894	Thank you. In conclusion, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance was respected Ivana Maletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61895	Thank you very much. Here I would just like to highlight a few details that are important for a good understanding of the Report. And of course I'd like to say at the beginning that every criticism is welcome and that definitely criticism then encourages better work, problem solving, and in fact that in a particular segment progresses. However, what is pointed out when you read these data from the tables regarding the use and then how many millions of euros have not actually been used. I have to say that as far as the PHARE program is concerned and... from the PHARE programme that in fact all the projects that were planned to finance in the PHARE programme and to meet the objectives set by the Republic of Croatia in the PHARE programme have been agreed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So absolutely all the projects and objectives were first agreed, and then the goals achieved. The reason for this lower percentage is, in fact, the savings that occurred during the negotiation process in the public procurement procedure, so that there was a simple savings, and then the European Commission does not give reuse and reuse, so you will see it in the tables themselves. And maybe in the next report, we'll do it a little bit better and more clearly. Also requested is an extension related to the ISPA project, i.e. ISPA program, why it was actually extended for one year. This is otherwise at the level of the European Commission and the Member States set out and established for all the countries in the fifth wave of enlargement that the programme will receive one year extension in implementation, and is applied to us in the same way, and the procedure agreed that each country must send a special request for itself. So, but it has never been determined otherwise that the European Commission and its members make a decision for only one but is usually in the package. In this case, the fifth wave of enlargement and the Republic of Croatia were for all countries. Also compared are the figures that we gave in the report to something that needs to be done on day 30.9. It is really important to consider that in this Report the situation is 30.6. and not 30.9. And I really tried to explain that when it comes to operational transport and the environment, it is about large infrastructure projects and when one or two contracts automatically increase that percentage of the contract. So one percent is no longer one more than 25, and so by very quickly negotiating one project, it grows. What is important is that you can actually hear criticism and from the member states what the use is, for example, in the Republic of Croatia. And otherwise, you will always hear from the Member States that they are trying to perform critically and say that they are not very successful in using funds, which is logical because they are fighting for the same cookie. And the goal is actually if she other less successful this more successful will get more. And in that sense, it is important for us to show them in a positive way. But what matters to us is when you look at independent experts who analyze the real state of Croatia gets commended and we are told that we have a high rate of exploitation and that we are very good and the preparations go in the right direction. Preparations for funds were part of the criterion in Chapter 22. The European Commission has assessed all the criteria in Chapter 22 as satisfactory. So those who know best all the practices of the Member States have said that what we are doing here is doing well and that we will essentially be ready to use the European Funds. And I think the most important and relevant thing for us is that someone independent objectively watching us appreciates what he says. Because they're very strict here. You know that we had moments when this system was blocked, so when they didn't, at some point they stopped at all the bargaining and spending their money, and now the situation is completely different. So what the Republic of Croatia really does is appreciated and recognised and it is important that somehow we all try to act as something positive. You mentioned it and it's a very valuable proposal to me and we will certainly consider the education of failed applicators. Otherwise, it is not in the procedures and with the delegation of the European Union to Zagreb, we have discussed it and said that we are actually going to introduce this procedure as a special and something that we want in our system regardless of what is prescribed under these rules of implementation of these grand schemes. Also, as far as this one of yours is concerned, it's actually a reference to the implementation of the FP7 program. It is a Community programme to be implemented centralisedly in Brussels. But what we're going to try to do for the next report is we're really going to get through these community programs how many of ours have appeared and how successful they have been in using these community programme funds so that you get as much comprehensive and better information as possible. Just another little detail about these fund preparations. It is often mentioned precisely in the transport and rail sectors, and it has been mentioned here. What is important to us are really railways priority and we have decided and now is already preparing a project application for 2012 and 2013 and by the end of 2010 will be sent to Brussels that is the project Long Selo-Križevci worth 200m euros. There are also a number of others who are preparing but by the end of 2010, the first to spend a good part of the location for the operational transport programme. Here, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61896	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met. Now I suggest that we unite point 5 and 6 and discuss it together. Does anyone mind? There isn't. Therefore, I agree that points 5 and 6 are united and that we will discuss them together. Point 5. - Proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Croatian Radio and - Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Programme Council of the Croatian Radio Television Committee on Information, Information and Media proposed this act on the basis of Articles 18 and 20. HRT law. You received the proposal by mail. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. President of the Committee, Honorable Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61898	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So when a man talks about this proposal on behalf of the Media Committee, there's really not much to say. The four members of the HRT Programme Council are Sanja Modric, Marina Škarbalo, Damir Grubiša and Sinisa Grgic, who resigned from their membership in the Programme Council and asked to be relieved of their duties. Three of them were motivated by one reason, this fourth completely by others. However, the Media Committee did not have any other choice but when it received their requests for resolutions to establish it and to refer this House to the proposal to relieve these four members of the HRT Programme Council of responsibilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61899	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. And first they're clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61900	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's because for a long time, it's been driving a whole series of misinformation that HDZ is being accused of obstruction. So they're accusing themselves of not wanting to choose a director and a whole series of things and I think we need to tell the truth here. Namely, the Programme Council has 11 members. From 11 to practically here two months ago and a few months ago there were 10 of them for the selection of directors, it takes 8 of them, one member who was supposed to be a potential member and is not elected because I still argue that he was at least after what her colleagues and colleagues wrote there to be a conflict of interest, which at this point does not matter. So there's 10 left that could have been chosen by the principal. However, there were three other members who resigned by not agreeing first and foremost on what they were most talking about on the Programme Council, which is an information programme as if the second part was obviously not so important on television and radio. And after them, because of the attack of a purely private nature, Mr Grgic also resigned and the Programme Council with 11 members arrived six members. So it can work but it can't make any decisions at least as far as the director's election is concerned. So, I'm not surprised this actually ended that way, because under the existing law, it couldn't have been much better. According to the current law, there was too little control. We know what was happening on television during Galic and Sutlic when television, first of all, was speaking, almost privatizing, that the employees had a whole series of companies that were very expensive to sell their works to the home, making good money, that the clans there were fighting obviously for the huge money coming from the overpaid, but it came from commercials. What doesn't surprise me again, again the resignations were, the resignations we're talking about today, so first of all, the three MPs who were elected to the opposition proposal are again the information program. So, dissatisfaction with the information program may not be like the program, but with the leaders. So let's get a little angry now because for the head man or the information program someone who isn't willing and let's go resign, which I don't think is right anyway. HRT, of course, is now at the centre of attention for a new law. In this new law, not only will the Programme Council be, I hope that it will remain so, that this proposal will be accepted, but the Supervisory Board will also participate in the selection of directors, how many members of the Programme Council and it is still being discussed. We heard some complaints today. But what still bothers me is not only me but all the members of the HDZ are the constant misinformation we heard today from the board president. Of course there were similar people today who talked about the whole situation. There was a nice play today at HRT and I believe something similar will continue on Monday. But we're used to it, and it doesn't surprise me too much. So what we're left with is what we've heard, we're going to accept the resolution of these three and four, and I think it's a temporary path to the law to form the Programme Council. But what's even weirder is that here, for a long time already, the Committee for Information, Information and Media has accepted a list from which the opposition should select three or three members of the 6 that have passed, let's say from 11, 6 have complete documentation, and no proposal. So obviously, these six can't be found three similar to the opposition and that's why we're waiting with this, but all the time we're talking about that one member or one member that wasn't elected for this or that reason. So let's be honest, let's just say, we certainly want to politicise the thing, the fact is that it's still going because the media are quite prone to politicizing HTV or HRT, especially the competitive houses that expect to see some changes in the distribution of advertising money first of all, and that clearly with the help and written media, the press media, it's going to be pressured so that it's probably back to what it was in 2002, when this law was passed. There is no more, and I think it is necessary to do very well in the functioning of Croatian broadcasting, financing which is extremely important, strict control there to say the financial flows on Croatian television which were extremely non-transparent and clear, rationalisation that is absolutely necessary because a huge number of people on Croatian broadcasting and even good experts are doing almost nothing. The program is extremely reduced, huge money is still being spent, here is something now, the plan we are waiting for restructuring, I hope it will be good and useful for Croatian broadcasting and that the whole story will actually get one normal ending and that Croatian radiotelevision will remain public, but not when it suits us or you or someone else, but otherwise what we expect from it. Very little is said about the program, interestingly, even here in these paragraphs I don't see a word against or at least a description with this we're satisfied with, we're not satisfied with this, but we're just unhappy with choosing an editor and we're done. And what about all the things that Croatian Radio Television should do and not work in enough quantity with its own programme, culture, children's programme and finally on its own misery, here's the music program that came back to Croatian RadioTelevision after several years in a row we've been making noises on both committees and other committees, so not a word about it. The information program is obviously what bothers you, and if it bothers you too much then we'll show that the information program isn't really ours, so we'll resign. Therefore, resignations as regards resolution will be better said, the Croatian Democratic Community will accept and we hope to be able to select other people in time and at least be the continuity of the adoption of a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61901	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61902	Thank you very much. The collapse of the HRT Programme Council began on a planned and deliberate basis, and that's how it ended. It began with the election of the 11th member of the Programme Council of Ms Vera Robic Škarica. Although the lady has brought a certificate certified by the public notary not to find herself in a conflict of interest and in this confirmation she wrote if I happen to find myself in a situation of conflict of interest I will leave the council alone, the parliamentary majority did not agree that Mrs Vera Robic Škarica would become the 11th member of the council. She refused to agree because, at all costs, the choice of the Director-General was to be narrowed down, so the council had to weaken. In this, Mrs Vera Robic Škarica was also not appointed to the Programme Council today, even though the provisions of the current law say she should be in the council. Further collapse of the Programme Council comes through the policy of those members of the Council who came to that council at the will of the parliamentary majority or to make it clear to everyone what I want to say, at the will of the HDZ. First of all, these members of the Council resolve Ms. Hlorko Novak-Srzic from the post of editor-in-chief of the information programme. In doing so, they also have support for that part of the council that is not chosen by the will of the HDZ. So, the Council is such a piece of shit without an 11th member, but in that, it is yet unique. It's unique in what grade? It is uniquely estimated that Mrs. Hlorka Novak-Srzic did not do her job well. "The main gaps," I quote, "for which the editor-in-chief was responsible were in the opinion of 9 out of 10 members of the Council, the irregular maintenance of daily and weekly colleges for the purpose of planning and coordinating work tasks, the lack of periodic monitoring of the quality of the key information programme and the organisation of work in the IT programme on the thematic colleges, poor co-workers' schedule, serious violations of human relations and violations of professional and ethical criteria, the irrational use of personnel and technical resources, marginalisation of research journalism, etc." Its resolution then proposes that the director of television Mr. Stipic and 9 out of 10 Council members accept these reasons as valid, as accurate, as true and as sufficient for Mrs. Hlorka Novak-Srzic to be resolved from the post of head of the information programme. Six months later, the same Stipic, none other than him, proposes to Mrs. Hlorko Novak-Srzic as the director of the HRT programme, suggests a de facto promotion of her in relation to the post she had previously performed. And six members of the Programme Council elected at the will of the HDZ accept it. Such a challenge has been difficult to endure, it is difficult to remain a member of the Council of a single body that should work seriously and responsibly, which changes its position in the diametric opposite within 6 months. And because of the three members of the Council, I think he's coming out of the Council very honorably. Fourth, Mr. Sinisa Grgic comes out a month or two later when he made the election of Hlorke Novak Srzic then exits the Council. That's what the Council's situation is all about. She no longer has enough members to elect the principal and the temporary situation is secured. Until when? To the new law. She's insured. Now let's see, we cited the reasons for the resignation of these three members of the Council, and let's see what reason Mr Grgic listed. He says that the reason is the direct involvement of other media in the judiciary and their influence on the process currently being conducted against him by Grgic. Fate proceedings. The trial against Sinisa Grgic was of course not enough reason for HDZ not to appoint it in the Council. It's no obstacle, but the obstacle is that someone might eventually if and when they come into conflict of interest. These are unusually interesting criteria of the parliamentary majority. Such a huge concern that perhaps in some case, and if there is no conflict of interest with Ms. Scissor and the complete absence of any interest in the profile of the man against whom the criminal proceedings are being conducted. Sinisha Grgic has no problem with criminal proceedings because he is suspected of corruption and theft. It doesn't seem to bother HDZ in any way, but the conflict may be a conflict of interest. The possible conflict of interest with Vera Rogic's scissors is an obstacle, an insurmountable obstacle to its entry into the Council. [[Accompaniment Jarnjak: Dear Representative, stay away from such meals at one large party of parliament.]] The situation we've been brought into is stupid that stupider can't be. By resolving these members of the Council ha, the Media Committee had to initiate the procedure because the law is still in force on the selection of new ones. Now should we choose new members of the Council who will be members of the Council? Until a new law that has already passed the first reading comes into effect and is announced by the government that it will be passed by the end of the year. So what time do we pick people now? To make fools out of them, to name them here at the Council for a month and a half. This is the situation in which the government and parliamentary majority of us have brought us to this meeting with their irresponsible behaviour in the Committee on Media and in this House. And through their levers in the Programme Council itself. The house was questioned, her stability. One temporary condition is now cemented. It will remain temporary for a long time and after the new law is passed because there are simply some deadlines. For behold, the law enters into force eight days before its publication in the People's Journal, and then it comes into force, and the Media Committee announces the invitation to tender, and 30 days of the deadline, and the candidates arrive, and the Media Committee considers them, and sends them to clubs, and the clubs agree, and this election is not agreed. When can we expect a whole new programming council? So there's March, April. So then it's the Programme Council, and then the election of the Supervisory Board, and then they have to write a new Statute, so until that Statute is approved by the Agency for Electronic Media, then it goes or takes an opinion and goes to the Assembly for confirmation, then they can only then join the selection of the Director-General in the regular procedure. Oh, ho. And all that time, this temporary administration will now be illegal. Because the current law clearly states that the temporary period can take six months. It's been going on for more than six months now. It'll take more than a year. It will last longer than a year and a half, all in the election year. So why does it now relate to the election year? Well, because that temporary, that temporary administration this spring is threatening to cut their fees. It means to throw them on their knees. But then it's said we won't come. But if you're not good, maybe we will. Well, Minister Schuker, every time he doesn't like any of the TV contributions, he threatens to charge VAT. Some more from Pasalic's time. No one remembers that VAT debt anymore. So if it charges, then HRT is back on its feet as it is, and yet it is not known in the law, in that draft law that needs to be passed by the government, and today on the National Committee it has been discussed how much of a marketing minute it will be downloaded to HRT, and if too much of that means HRT on its feet again. So they're going to manage these temporarys like that and they're going to be afraid of them for an election year. This fear of the lever that HRT uses is very effective. It is very effective, but it means destroying the public service of Croatian Radio Television. It's a national value that once you bring down no one alive will be able to lift them to their feet. And it's all done as we see planned and systematic a year with one single purpose to ensure the domination of HRT in the election year, and then what about that house is to be. We don't care! We find such behavior extremely irresponsible, harmful, dangerous. It threatens to destroy one great value and the question is whether, through all these deadlines, HRT and with the help of the new law, it's the best in the world, to be the best in the world, to get away with it. If until then, until all these new laws have been passed, that HRT will not be completely destroyed. It all began with the unnamed 11 members of the council, with transparent apologies, and ended with the resignation of Siniš Grgić and the inability of any regular state after that, and so it will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61903	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU, the esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61904	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. It might not be too much to remind that Croatian broadcasting was established under the law adopted by the Croatian Parliament and that Croatian broadcasting as a public service creates therefore the Croatian Parliament as the embody of the most democratic political will of Croatian citizens and that this House cannot, even if it will, escape even from the grain of its responsibility for this situation. And when we talk about this House, then we need to know that this is primarily about the ruling majority, because in every body, and in the Information Committee, it is the ruling majority that determines and tailors the cap. Even in those cases that have been established by long-term practice, when there are the rights and opportunities of the opposition, to propose in certain quotas to the Croatian Parliament, the ruling majority took the right to derogate it after so many years, but not to ignore it, but to completely prevent it. If you are not aware that the refusal to appoint Mrs. Robić Škarica to the HRT Programme Council was precedentd, which actually began the process of destroying this entire structure of the Programme Council, then you are obviously unable to bear part of the responsibility that belongs to us as the Croatian Assembly. For months to insist on a completely inconclusive claim that in her case it is a potential conflict of interest, where it is definitely clear and in detail prescribed how an existing or possible conflict of interest is determined, and you ignore it, then that means that you have taken that burden upon yourself to future any definition and any regulation you interpret as it pleases you. Well, it's a deal. At that time, as the Croatian Parliament, we showed that everything the entire profession means by supporting Mrs. Škarica's candidacy, or Robic Škarice, is not important at all. And after that, we get into a situation where, as a map tower, the Programme Council collapses, where four members leave and completely disables that council for further work. I completely agree with my colleague, Stazic, that it is something that has not come from itself and something that has been coordinated and well, well run. Well done. You did this great by blocking the choice of one member by bringing the Programme Council into a position that it could not choose the Director-General, by setting up the performers, by setting up a full temporary administration, and in fact by keeping the form, we have actually come into a position that the Practically Programme Council no longer matters at all, because if there are only 6 members and nothing has happened in the last two months, the temporary administration is working, that means that this story can hold water for at least another year, and it just takes so long to complete the work on preparing and making new choices. Well, this is more than clear, that the intensity was precisely to prevent Croatia from broadcasting that during this transitional period until the new law was passed, but not only until new elections could not provide and provide a public service function, but only a limited function of a controlled service. Well, we're not gonna lie. We know very well who the temporary directors of Croatian Radio Television, former officials of the Croatian Democratic Community, are. The resignations of three members of the Programme Council, Mr Grubisa, Mrs Modric and Mrs Škrabalo in a very bright way show what the ruling majority's policy has led to in both the Information Committee and the Croatian Parliament, and shows what it is able to do with temporary management, changing head-to-head policies and attitudes when needed. The situation on Croatia's radio television, as a result of this, is very, very bad. The conditions have been created in which, by reading carrots and beatings, it gives legitimacy to the temporary administration to do what they want, to lie to lists of people who will be fired and to fire them, that no one knows by what criteria, and that we are not aware that many of those who are constantly employed on HRT do not work at all, for years, and that this work has not been caught by the management, but has therefore put aside many of the newsrooms in recent months by cancelling contracts to external partners carrying programmes. What outside associates? Well, it's not outsoring, it's not private companies, it's professionals who've been on Croatian radio for 10, 12 years, they've never been admitted to a permanent working relationship, and they carry a lot of programs. They got fired. Not all of them, but the first ones are on the shot. Between them and a man who's been working as a speaker for 12 years, there's been no access to HTV for a month, but that's why they have those who don't do anything. Now, that's what made this situation possible. As this situation will escalate further. Well, then this threat by seizing, or by reducing the fee, is nothing more than giving wages to the temporary administration that based on the restructuring plan that we saw, we didn't see who was committed to the government a month ago can do whatever the will is. Or what you agree with the government. Because if the government was the one who asked the temporary administration to bring in the restructuring plan and only to think carefully about whether or not it would reduce the fee, it would be nothing more than racketeering. It is even below that level of the worst possible blackmail we will hope to avoid through an annual contract between HRT and the Croatian government, but as such it is not ideal because it is annual, because it is subject to different forms of pressure and manipulation towards HRT. And there is no guarantee that such an annual contract will actually give space to the development of public service. And after that, when the National Committee today organises a round table to which it invites all relevant people from HRT, but also from the academic community, all members of the Information Committee and representatives of the NGO, then the HDZ Club representative says it was a convenient play. It was a handsome play, and he could talk there, he was invited. If that's a good play, why didn't he stop him, if he had something to say, why didn't he say? Why are we mocking the National Committee that we created ourselves? And then a representative of the club calls for cost rationalization, a reduction in the number of employees, finally the introduction of order. I'm asking you what's been going on? What was going on? You've managed this situation directly for a year. You've brought your people on all administrative matters, so I'm asking you what we've spent, what have you spent a year putting this situation in order? At nothing, we just brought the situation to that point to say that it is chaos, but controlled chaos so that there is no accidental confusion, chaos in which what is ordered can be done, and this will be ordered by the ruling political majority in the Croatian Parliament. The fact that of 11 members today we are talking about being the 11th member that you refused the choice, that 3 members resigned and that this council no longer represents anything and cannot function first and foremost testify about the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament. And second of all, I'm asking a question as to what date is today? The President of the Information Committee sent the Croatian Assembly a proposal for a Decision on discharge of the members of the HRT Programme Council on 29 September and the other on July 8th 2010. So I ask you who actually dictates the pace here and who in this way makes it difficult to solve the situation on HRT, the ruling majority or opposition? The answer is more than clear. The ruling majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61905	Thank you. The HDZ Representatives' Club, Madam Representative... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Is it? Then why are you putting that on me? Madam representative of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61906	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's a little after this inspired debate by my colleague, Beuss, I will return not to the 11th member of the council but to remind myself of the fact that Marina Škrabalo and Sanja Modric have submitted a request for discharge of the CROAT Programme Council. In the same way, such a request for resolution was filed by Dr. Damir Grubisa, followed by Sinisa Grgic, resigned on September 1st, so he resigned as a member of the HRT Council. This, of course, has been discussed, the parent board has opened a tender for the selection of new members of the Programme Council, which I remind under the current law, can be citizens of the Republic of Croatia who in public life have stood out for respect of democratic principles and the rule of law, the construction and improvement of the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and that I will say to my colleague, Beus Programme Council, it is very important that the people sitting in it are equally important. As far as the reasons for the resignations mentioned are concerned, I would just like to say that they are at least explained by the reasons in their field of action. Is that for some other reason, private, personal, we don't want to guess about it. Besides, they've come to terms with it. When we talk about the importance of members of the Programme Council, i.e. the people sitting there, I would like to say that they also have a huge responsibility because the Programme Council should protect the public's interest by conducting surveillance and by improving the radio we often forget about, we forgot today. We are not only talking about Croatian television, but about Croatian broadcasting and therefore we often forget about radio colleagues, journalists, producers who work hard on radio, so radio and television programs. In addition, Council members shall monitor and implement programme principles and obligations. Among other Councils, it gives an opinion on the programme orientations of radio and television, but also on the process of adopting a financial and business plan for HRT, members of the Information and Media Committee probably know it well, i.e. I am sure they know it well, but here is no excuse to repeat it. It is equally until the adoption of a new Law on HRT which this morning was the subject not only of this morning but it is almost until the afternoon hours here in the Croatian Parliament, it is our duty to respect the applicable laws, if anyone wonders why we did so, why we had to call a tender to fill the remaining seats of the members of the Programme Council. So, because we need to respect the laws that are in force and we need to carry out the selection process of the members of the Programme Council for the rest of the term of office. I will deliberately put aside the structure as said that the collapse of the Council was made by the will of the HDZ because it was clever enough to explain enough once, so I think we were clear enough what happened and why it happened. On everything else, about the functioning of Croatian Radio Television as a public service, about meeting their obligations on the level of professionalism, about the state of finances, we will talk about when the Law on Croatian Television comes to Parliament when it comes to the agenda. All other passions, please, let's save it for that agenda point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61907	Thank you. Mr. Representative Antun Vujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61908	So, fellow Glavak, you said smart enough once to explain, you know it's just a conditional matter, first of all, whether we're smart enough after all this because after this you can be between crazy and smart, what the people say is "Neither crazy nor smart". Secondly, the question is, have you explained something that's logical? So if it's not logical that you explain it, there's not a hundred smart people who can understand you. In this sense, the explanations you explain to the smart ones are not acceptable because they are not logical and you have to deal with it, and we believe that all of this is generated by the will of the Croatian Democratic Community, because this shows the systematic occurrence of events in this case, the collapse of the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council and, consequently, the appointment of a temporary one, I would almost say by forced administrations that actually greatly meet what you as the ruling majority of it expect. And now please give me a logical explanation in response to the replica, maybe I'll really get in line for the smart ones if I'm lucky.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61909	Replication response, Mrs. solar head.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61910	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I don't know why you're the one who felt called in what I told the smarts once enough, so I won't repeat it, and we can work it out somewhere else. What we repeated at the Committee meetings why we couldn't accept that if a person who said that they would find themselves in a conflict of interest then there would be no more members, because that same article says if a person could find himself in a conflict of interest, maybe I'm saying something wrong now, I didn't quote. As far as everything else is concerned, the only thing I can say is that the laws in this country have to be implemented and we are consistent in it and so long as we don't get a new Law on Croatian Television, we're going to implement it, you think about it one way or another in this country, the laws need to be implemented. All other speculations who has done what I reject and for which we will also be able to justify when the law comes to the session of the Parliament, and I would like to say so much that you have spoken about the plan to restructure HRT and you have said one great lie that it is about racketeering by the Government, which is a very serious accusation and if only sensations are being made it is extremely unserious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61911	Mr. Representative Antun Vujic, now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61912	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would say that the fact that my colleague Stazic made the list is exact, unfortunately, inconclusive, so I'm not going back to it. I'll try to intonate things differently. Since the HDZ colleagues deny it in terms of intent, let's say that there are no such intentions, that in fact all this is done with public television as described and as described by colleagues Richembergh and others, let's say that it is not so, let's do something positive to see that it is not so. I am speaking primarily to my colleague Hebrang, the esteemed Mr. Hebrang, because he will be in a position to be active in this situation as president of the HDZ Club, so now to be active in overcoming this situation. Next, to have a single public media that remains in the field of public interest which is not private, is not privatised, and may not lead a happy policy but does not run a private policy or lead such a private policy that is not a policy of intent but rather a policy of greater or less professionalism. And in today's debate, we heard that it's important to preserve it, there are many interests and many who discuss here counter some elements, in that public television they don't even recognize in the name of whom they discuss, it has many enemies. Public television has many enemies primarily because it's public and it's not private yet and it has some content that others don't... has obligations that others don't..., which from it at the end of the line to say not only to live producers, domestic cultures, actors these, she only has the relevant content that is public until others have it. So that's what matters. Now we're here... and whoever thinks going out is simple and without consensus is hardly gonna be able to be. I'm surprised, and I'm going to say thank you to those who responded to this contest, but it's really a surprise that someone is reporting for the competition and that the law is at the door and that it doesn't really know how this contest will even apply to those who will be elected in the meantime. It's clear to me that the law needs no matter how long it took to adhere to it, but I think you should be smart enough to get ahead of it legally and legally, legally, its possible bad outcomes. I don't see any different coming out of this situation than to defend this common good that we last seem to have voted not for each other against, but perhaps some have abstained but we were rather unique in terms of the past law to preserve this public good to agree on some key things. First, we need to agree on clubs so the current choice makes sense that it extends in a way with transitional provisions and the next law, we need here to be representatives of the government to show us that in the end and before the law is finished, because we still don't know what the relationship between the programming board, the supervisory board, which will all contain a contract that all obligations will be arbitrarily resolved, etc., because I ask you to understand one thing, and just to be a little rude, someone may think that the law on which television will depend on his future government will be quite wrong, and that this law will depend on one other, not his government. I wouldn't want any other government to have a key impact on the affirmation of television and the arbitrational ability to run television. We'd have to create a consensus on this national committee. The consensus should include all the serious working parties here in this, the government should be involved in this consensus. I'm afraid you can't see what it's all about. Today the discussion has shown on the National Committee that many people who speak well on purpose do not in general doubt any good intentions actually know that matter. There are thoughts of people in both government and outside government who know this matter well. This new law would have to go further than this law that is now, but it would have to protect television and at the same time there would have to be a way to make this choice that is now in front of us pointless. There won't be a choice of people who don't actually know at this point to choose on an arbitration basis until the time limit when the law says now your term of office is up. There is much interest here in agreeing on this by the serious and responsible parties in this House. And I plead to pass it on to all those who need something done. So please, Mr. Vice President, try to act in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61913	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Fifth, Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of part of the members of the Programme Council of Croatian Radio Television. The applicant shall be the parent committee. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Programme Council of the Croatian Radio Television. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 99 votes in favour, 1 abstention was made in the text as proposed by the parent committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61936	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. As every year before you is the Programme and Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee. What is briefly to say about this report and in 2009 is in a much wider way explained in the report itself. I'll just go through what I have that matters most. First of all, the Croatian Olympic Committee is a roof association of Croatian sports. It brings together 39 Olympic and 31 Neo-Olympic alliances, 21 county and city of Zagreb, all 109 members and is a fundamental function to ensure the international performances and preparation of all Croatian athletes in all these alliances. And that's what we do over the years. In the first part of this report you see the result of this work. Sports is a very exact thing. there either you won the medal or you're 1st or you're 6th and you don't need any special analysis and proof whether something's successful or not. If you look at the report, you will see that in 2009, Croatian athletes and athletes won about 720 medals, which means practically every day of the year two medals were adorned by our athletes and athletes. After that, you can also see the special programs that we worked on during 2009 with a special emphasis on three. One was the promotion of olympics and Olympic principles among the youngest, so-called "Olympics". The 2009 Olympic children's kindergarten festival covered about 15 thousand of our youngest children from 337 kindergartens. The second program was from sports school to the Olympic Games. And the third was a programme marking the Croatian Olympic Day, which was usually every 10 September and which in 2009 included about 45 thousand of our citizens. Then you can see what is most important in this report, these are development programs and preparations for the Olympics. We are particularly proud of our development programs and because they include the youngest Croatian athletes until our Olympic candidates. The 33 sports included 305 athletes and athletes from the 12th year on in 2009. Therefore, when someone says there is no system of sports in Croatia, it is simply not true. And all the medals that were won in various sports from wrestling to Sandra Perkovic are all participants and are all athletes and athletes who are covered by the Croatian Olympic Committee's development programs and are clearly using them in the best possible way. We should also add scholarships to Olympic solidarity. And here's a new 10 contracts signed last week for our most prospective athletes and athletes. In addition to these development programs, I especially draw your attention to the programs related to professional work in sport, the programs that include trainers. You can see from the report that in 2009 it was covered by these programs of 73 coaches. And these are all our leading coaches except Slaven Bilić, if they have enough money to use our resources themselves. There are projects ahead of you related to the Olympic Games in London for which we hold that Croatia will have more athletes and athletes than in Beijing, so things continue in a very positive direction. And the Sochi project, so winter games, waiting for us. Then you can see how control mechanisms work. The Croatian Olympic Committee has several degrees of control. He's got a supervisory board, he's got an internal audit, he's got a state audit, he's got a commercial audit, he's got control of the finance ministry's budget, and in all these segments, I think we can be satisfied with the findings that we've been presented with. In addition, the Croatian Olympic Committee is one of the few Olympic committees in Europe that has ISO 9001 standards for several years, which in itself shows the seriousness of business within our roof sports house. As far as the 2009 financial indicators are concerned, you can see from the report that if we were to look at in the narrow accounting sense, we have achieved even some small surplus income at expenditures, but when viewed dynamically, given that everything had to be paid as consequences before the 2009 Olympic year, you know that we operate on the same principle as the state, so on the principle that all the activities after the earlier budget stop at the end of the year. Then things get paid in the second year. There were some more claims we had to pay in January and February 2010. And finally I draw your attention to the Croatian Olympic Academy. If the Croatian Olympic Academy were a high school or high school institution, it would be one of the largest in Croatia. 5200 participants in 2009 went through 170 education programmes. These are education programmes certified by our ministry by enrolling in the workbook and this is a major contribution to raising the expertise of people who are in sport. All together, we are also satisfied with the 2009 sports and financial plan. Of course, it has been as difficult for us as everyone else, our budget has been cut by 30 million kuna, or over 20%, but we have brought in one programme of measures related to saving on all segments and refocusing on the basic objectives that we have, with the purpose of maintaining all programmes and all competitions according to established dynamics and all preparations of our athletes, which we have succeeded at the expense of some of the other activities that we have judged to be less important in that year. Here are dear MPs and MPs, this is the short Programme and Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2009. Of course, we're here to give further reasons if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61937	Thank you. The committees. Gender equality, chairman of the committee of Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61938	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the Croatian Olympic Committee, colleagues and colleagues. At the 35th session held on 1 July this year, the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament discussed the 2009 Programme and Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee. The Proposer's introductory representative met briefly the members and members of the committee with the content of the report. Last year, as part of the regular programme, the Croatian Olympic Committee took care of a total of 84 national sports alliances. During 2009, Croatian athletes won 720 medals in major international competitions, and it is particularly stressed that despite the reduction in funding from the state budget, all programmes were successfully implemented at both national and local level. In particular, the applicant's representative highlighted a part of the report relating to the Commission's work on women's care in sports. In the discussion followed by the committee members, they asked for clarifications on some of the discrepancies in the report. A question has been asked about the status of the Croatian Olympic Centre Bjeolasica, which should serve to prepare all athletes and Paralympics. Furthermore, it has been warned that the humanitarian action that has collected the funds for rehabilitation of the victims of the Olympics should be used to help other athletes, for example to establish an appropriate rehabilitation centre that does not exist in the Republic of Croatia. The trend in the world is that Olympic committees and paralympic committees are united. The question has also been raised as to how big differences in the implementation of local sport-enhancing projects in different local environments. Committee members also requested additional information on the implementation of the health protection programme for top athletes, given the insufficient number of sports medicine specialists. It warned of the need to react to the Croatian Olympic Committee's unauthorized behaviour in sport. The lawyer for gender equality asked for an explanation of the absence of the Croatian Olympic Committee's response in certain cases of sexual harassment and indicated that the report does not show whether there is a strategy for promoting gender equality in sport on the Croatian Olympic Committee. The applicant's representative provided further explanations. As regards the financing of local sport, the Croatian Olympic Committee is looking for a partner at the level of municipalities, cities and counties. Some local sports communities unfortunately served only to transfer funds to clubs, and set up their supervisory function. Realisation of projects to encourage sports at local level depends unfortunately on the skills and ability of the secretary of local sports communities, and the Croatian Olympic Committee organised an education on the collection and implementation of funds for them. As for the Croatian Olympic Centre Bjellolasica, he only bears the title Olympic, but is not in charge of the Croatian Olympic Committee. As for the lack of specialists in sports medicine, the Croatian Olympic Committee will propose that the Law on Sports amends a controversial provision under which only sports medicine doctors can carry out sports examinations due to the chronic lack of them. Members and members of the Committee unanimously concluded that they would hold a meeting with the members of the Commission on Women's Care in the Sports of the Croatian Olympic Committee to discuss the most important aspects of the issue of promoting gender equality and participation of women in sport. After the discussion, members and board members unanimously propose to the Croatian Parliament to accept the 2009 Programme and Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61939	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports? I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Perica Bukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61940	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the President and Secretary-General of the Croatian Olympic Committee, colleagues and fellow MPs. In 2009 the Croatian Olympic Committee managed to contribute to the great reputation of Croatian sports with a number of results achieved, won titles and medals and to implement a comprehensive programme plan covering: the planned implementation of the preparation of athletes and preparations for participation in the Winter Olympics in Vancouver, preparation and performance at the Mediterranean Games in... , the implementation of regular programmes of national sports alliances, the implementation of the Croatian Olympic Committee development programmes, further improvement of the health care of athletes, strengthening cooperation with local sports communities and implementation of the programmes and strengthening the international... [[You don't understand.]] Croatian Olympic Committee and cooperation with international sports institutions. [[You don't understand.]] From year to year, there is an improvement in the system of sports concerns at all levels, from school sports through city and county competitions, to top sports achievements. In 2009, as we heard earlier, Croatian athletes won a total of 720 medals, significantly more than in 2008, but it should be pointed out that this, however, was an Olympic year in which many of the world and European championships were not held, hence the large difference in the number of medals won in 2009. Listing top athletes, i.e. the categorisation of athletes is based on an appropriate sports result or norm that the athlete achieves in competitions that are organised or controlled by the National Sports Union, or international sports alliances, recognised by the International Olympic Committee. As we have seen from the report and in 2009, the number increased by about 10%, the number of requests received, and the number of solutions issued. We are also witnessing the fact that during 2009 the Croatian Olympic Committee served a total of 84 alliances, three more than in 2008. These 84 alliances, five of them were not used by the planned funds, but as many as 69 alliances were... its regular programme with 90 or more than 90%, which data speak of the purpose of such investments, but also of the need to increase the funds mentioned. [[You don't understand.]] The increase in the allocation of funds for local sports programmes from the regular programme continues to increase. The effectiveness of the Croatian Olympic Committee programme is growing along with the willingness of sports communities to cooperate. The Croatian Olympic Committee co-operates directly with city and municipal sports communities, when it is estimated to increase the effectiveness of the programme in the local community. The purpose of the programme was to create conditions for the development of sports in a way that the HO in collaboration with sports communities encourages investment in new design and developmental sports projects for children and young people in local communities. The goal was also to help sports communities use financial monitoring by the Croatian Olympic Committee as an argument to further invest other partners. During 2009, 96 programming requirements were accepted in the Croatian Olympic Committee and 29 of them were selected, of which 15 were related to the promotion of development programmes in sports communities, two to encourage the development of sports on islands, and 12 to encourage the development of sports in war-devasted areas. This best explains how much sport-enhancing programmes at local levels are well designed and guided, especially in terms of a program called HO project to support sport at local level, and a program that is its natural upgrade from sports school to the Olympic Games, through which sports schools are supported, in which future promoters of Croatian sport are raised. This system of development and care for the top athlete leads us to the most visible segment of the work of the Croatian Olympic High Sports Committee. In 2009, the Croatian Olympic Committee co-financed 54 major sports events in 40 sports, of which 8 World Cups, 7 World Cups, 10 European Championships, 5 European Cups and 24 international sports competitions. In addition to financial support, the Croatian Olympic Committee has been actively involved in providing organisational and technical assistance to national sports associations, in the organisation of major sports events. The support programme for athletes of younger age categories started with the application of 19 athletes and athletes from 12 sports, and in 2009, we had 65 users from 21 sports. The individual youth care programme, the Croatian Olympic Committee has already taken care of the achievement of sports quality for 12 years, improving the development of sport, and in particular ensuring the professional, technical, material and living conditions of the most gifted athletes of cadet and junior age. As part of individual programmes, the Croatian Olympic Committee cared for a total of 127 athletes from 27 individual sports in 2009. All praise the work of the Croatian Olympic Academy, through which the coaches of all national adult selections are trained, and I think it is extremely important for the development and future of sports in Croatia. The number of athletes, alliances and associations, as well as competitions that were followed and financially assisted by the Croatian Olympic Committee is exceptional, especially in relation to income from something over... One million kuna, and this is also the reason why we all support together the Croatian Olympic Committee, which has helped the operation of Croatian sport despite extremely difficult times this year. [[You don't understand.]] Of course, we hope that the financial opportunities of investment in sport in the near future will be even greater, in line with the needs of sports alliances and athletes, but also our wishes for even more sports successes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61941	Thank you. HNS Club, HSU, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61942	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Olympic Committee with an associate. On behalf of the HNS Club, I announce that we will support this proposal for a report, i.e. the programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2009, primarily because it shows very realistically the situation in the Croatian Olympic space and correctly, according to a methodology that we have already used to in the Croatian Parliament reports on what they have managed to do in the past year. When I say what they did, I'm sure that what they did was a lot different from what they wanted to do, because the recession times, among other things, hit the sport, double. They are affected because sponsorship funds are being reduced and, on the other hand, because the funds are intended for this type of activity in all public budgets are usually less. We will be aware of this especially at the end of this year, now that the counties, municipalities and cities are bringing rebalancing of their budgets, and, regularly, among the items that suffer serious cuts due to unreal planning, most of all thanks to the direction of the Ministry of Finance which has said that this year they are planning revenues greater by 0.5% compared to 2009 is actually due to the fact that they suffer significantly all social activities, and then, if possible, among them and sport. This is one part of our story about sports in Croatia, which I spoke about last year, and I will repeat, because I think that the Croatian Olympic Committee has not been determined enough in this sense, I would say in some way that there is a more aggressive policy in this direction, which is how they share and use the funds for sports at regional level, i.e. at the level of counties, municipalities and cities, because you know very well, as we know it is actually the space of one volunteerism, where there are very few systems, and where a relatively small community of sports associations has strong, long-term defined criteria in the allocation of funds, but also control mechanisms on the use of these funds. Some have the honour of each, however, in many municipalities and cities the financial means for sport, and let us not fool ourselves with all the resources that go to sports from the municipality and the city at the end are reflected in our potential in the Olympic performance, in fact sometimes they only serve to buy local favors, cover certain political preferences, control of this club or that club, interferring to a place where young people move because it is a politically curative commodity, and that there is actually no real system and long-term promotion of the development of certain sports, or clubs that carry them at local level. Because when we talk about HOO and Olympic sports, we're actually talking about the roof of our house, our sports house that has several floors. And HOO is what you can see from the farthest. So, a roof that is beautiful, solid, well, cleverly made and that is maintained especially in recent years. However, the situation in those lower floors of the Croatian Sports House is not very good because of what is happening at the local level, and of course it is overshadowed by a circus in certain sports that, whether it was wanted or not, is maintained on the credibility of the work of many people in sport who are not even close to it, and it is important that individuals, because of this or that of their own interest of the cloud or put into the shadows, are actually many honest and honorable people who, let's not forget it, in most cases, never charge their work in sport. The vast majority of people who work with our children, who work on springs, but who do a bunch of other things that serve sports clubs actually work for free, work out of great love and desire that in their place, in their municipality, there is a good sports program in their city, that as little children on the road as possible and as much on sports grounds as possible. That this form of organized leisure takes as much wave as possible and that, of course, recruits as many successful athletes as possible, which is if possible in better clubs, or in more competitions and then we get to that roof that we call a HOO. I would like, frankly, so that the hoo puts a little foot in the door of this situation and opens that story and in some ways initiates one systematic, long-term and I would say correct behavior of local self-government towards sport. Because if this doesn't happen in the long run, then we'll still actually get Olympic competitors and top athletes, mostly thanks to their parents' efforts, their talent and their own perseverance, not really to the product of a single system that works from the lowest levels to the higher. People say that Croatia, given its size and population, has top sports results. There may actually be beating themselves because there are some other European countries that aren't big that also deliver top sports results, and that doesn't mean anything. It doesn't mean anything or size, it always means only results. And we're all glad when the Olympics, regardless, were so-called. "usual" or paralympics are returning to Croatia with medals, we are always proud of them, but we sometimes wonder what is behind this effort that has led to these medals, which is behind these efforts and so many years of denial and work and whether we are at all involved in the way the law predicted, how the system or many things actually happen, thanks to the great effort of individuals, people of good faith, and too little systematic support and systematic action. ... As where colleague Bagaric is, unfortunately, it is not always and everywhere well-harmonised. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In any case, we hold that, despite the difficulties in some even Olympic sports, it does its job well, that it as a structure led by a team of experienced professionals and already interrupted people in a number of world's biggest sports competitions, so that they achieve good results overall and that the Croatian Olympic family comes before this Assembly every year with good and correct reports. We would like, of course, that the results are even better, even more successful, but we are also aware that they depend primarily on systematic support and how much funding the Croatian Olympic family has available. Some improvisations that happen in the meantime, especially the last minute before the big sports competitions are organised, and it would be better if they were part of the strategic thinking of the development of Croatian sport and the interests of the strategic interests of Croatian sports in the organization, household and therefore the implementation of major sports projects because we have some experience that has left behind large objects, and did not actually leave behind a system of their use and exploitation and good management. But anyway, it has nothing to do with the HoO, he's doing a good job in his work. I repeat so much the HNS-HSU club supports this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61943	Thank you. The HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61944	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary-General, colleagues and fellow MPs. We at the HSS club support this programme-financial report because we believe that it covered the activities of the HOO in a professional and meaningful way and analysed the achievements and activities in Croatian sport in detail. The report points out that in 2009 in the context of a difficult economic situation, the WHO managed to implement a comprehensive programme covering the planned implementation of the preparation of athletes and organisational preparations for participation in the Winter Olympics, preparation and performance at the Mediterranean Games, in particular the essential implementation of regular programmes of national sports alliances, the implementation of the PSO development programmes and the further improvement of the health protection of athletes, as well as the strengthening of cooperation with local sports communities and the implementation of programmes that we consider extremely important. We welcome the efforts made by the Croatian Olympic Committee and the local community in the area of creating conditions for the development of sports, especially the part relating to children and young people. The purpose of this programme is to create conditions for the development of sports in a way that the Croatian Olympic Committee encourages investment in new planned developmental sports projects for children and young people in local communities. The idea is to encourage investment in sport in a way that each approved sport project is co-financed from different sources and the aim was to help sports communities to exploit financial monitoring by the Croatian Olympic Committee as an argument for further investment of other partners and to help sport communities become credible and active sports policy makers in the area for which they are responsible. It pointed out that 96 programme applications were accepted in the Croatian Olympic Committee during 2009, and 29 of them were approved, 15 of which concerned the promotion of development programmes in sports communities, two to encourage the development of sport on islands and 12 to encourage the development of sports in war-devasted areas. The report does not highlight the reasons for the rejection of most requests but in any case, the number of applications received is a positive indicator in the sense that the local sport-enhancing programmes show a great interest, and perhaps additional efforts should be taken both by the Croatian Olympic Committee and local units in order to meet as many requests as possible. A major contribution to the programme of training of sports workers, judges, coaches has been made by the Olympic Academy to ensure professional training of sports workers who successfully transfer their knowledge to younger athletes. Training and professional training of sports personnel has been realised in cooperation with international sports associations, international sports associations of individual sports, educational institutions and the Croatian Army. The programme is achieved by training judges of international categories, courses, seminars, consultations and international expert meetings. We particularly highlight and support the work and action of the Croatian Olympic Academy, which has achieved and implemented with its plan by supporting the programme principles and programming requirements throughout the Croatian Olympic Committee. I here must especially thank and support the model of the Croatian Olympic Committee's work on respecting the so-called "The Olympic Committee". small sports, especially support we give on behalf of the Croatian Shooting Union because without understanding of the Croatian Olympic Committee there would be a number of excellent results but thanks to the very support of the Croatian Olympic Committee Croatian Shooting today is one of the most professional Croatian sports which clearly could not achieve and achieve these results. The financial part of the report found that the total revenues achieved in 2009 amounted to more than 120 million kuna, State budget funds were reached in the amount of HRK 106 million and accounted for more than 88% of the total revenues achieved. The report detailed the data on the implementation by programmes and on the terms of more revenue established for 2009 which stems from outstanding commitments relating to transfers of funds to national sports associations for regular programmes, salaries of workers, fees for coaches and sports scholarships, categorised athletes and which was mostly settled in January 2010. The club of representatives of the HSS, with its already prominent support for this report, is taking the opportunity to send a card to the Croatian Olympic Committee because the positive results and sports successes have not failed despite the financial difficulties and how we know to tell this crisis in 2009 but also this.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61945	Thank you. Individual debate Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61946	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable President of the Olympic Committee, Mr. Secretary. First of all, I would like to say that I support this report because I believe that the Croatian Olympic Committee is working systematically and well in one otherwise very problematic part of the job, organising all sports in one Olympic community, which is, in itself, quite stochastic one process that is quite well controlled and directed and the results are seen. What may be this opportunity to talk at all about the situation in Croatian sport, and I must say that I am sorry that there are no representatives here from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, because somehow they are always missing when it comes to this particular report and the Olympic Committee itself cannot solve all the problems in the sport society in Croatia, but one part of the responsibility certainly belongs to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and they need to recognize the problems and solve them. In that sense, I'm sorry they're not here today. What is noticeable in Croatian sport is practically from the first Olympic games, from Croatia's independence from Barcelona, to these changes in sports in which Croatia wins Olympic medals, so tennis and basketball in Barcelona, at the last Olympic games of athletics, shooting, tae kwon do, gymnastics, therefore, is a different structure of sports in which Croatia wins medals. Of course, I would even point out that it is obvious that these sports that are not sports games are systematically better organised thanks to the Croatian Olympic Committee for the most part. However, what is missing in Croatia when it comes to sports itself is the question of how to increase the number of young people who are involved in sports, who are almost impossible to publicise in Croatia, above all I think of a large number of young people living in villages, relatively distant from urban areas, limited by material opportunities, most often only to football that restricts and one area includes talented young people to practice sports, and on the other hand they are objectively deprived of it. Last year's suspension of free transportation for high school students had one additional negative effect. We also think that it should be recognised by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports as one problem to which it should be devoted. Of course, there is a connection between the number of medals won, the country's gross social product, I'm talking about Olympic medals. We had in the last year through this Olympic Committee report a visible drop in income. He is of course the result of recessions, but he is quite large in the revenues of the Olympic Committee. It is fortunate that the Olympic Committee has succeeded and with such reduced revenues to meet all the main objectives. Of course, this has also been passed on to national sports alliances that have also found themselves in a rather difficult situation. Finally, you announced this last year, seeing in fact that there is an economic crisis at our door that will leave great consequences in sports. I must say that I am personally unusually critical when it comes to media monitoring of sports in Croatia. It comes down too often to too much foreign football league space. The largest daily magazines are almost exclusively engaged in them, not Croatian Olympics, the winners of Croatian Olympic medals. They are extremely poorly represented in Croatian newspapers. And that is why I support the recently presented idea that the Croatian Olympic Committee is engaged in the establishment of a TV channel that would follow these very sports. This would be very important for popularising sports in Croatia, and I absolutely support it. What is still needed in sports is a question of the position of sports students. Therefore, the introduction of the Bologna Process has had serious maybe positive effects in the study process itself, but extremely negative when it comes to sports students and their ability to choose their positions in the electoral types in view of the obligations that follow from the process. So, unfortunately, it is also a consequence of such a situation that many athletes are extremely talented looking for a way out in the United States, above all, to their universities that have an organised opportunity and to engage in top sports and regular schooling. With us, of course, no one can blame professors in colleges or menus for setting their own terms. But they're incompatible. One student cannot appear at the same time on the colloquium and on the preparation of the electoral species. He must therefore choose either the European Championship or pass the exam. So this is a rather unpleasant situation that Croatian society must resolve. In the end, Croatian society must define what we really want from sports, which as a society is ready except for the means of sport that must be greater. Unfortunately, too much is about providing certain resources for the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee and letting the Croatian Olympic Committee deal with the entire segment of sport, and objectively the Croatian Olympic Committee cannot change, for example, the organisation of work at Croatian universities. It can point to problems, it can insist that certain problems are solved. But if it's insistence, then it's relatively slow to solve what's not good. So in this sense, I note that these problems of sport that are objectively present are not sufficiently recognized. So, no special discounts are required there, of course. They are all extremely valuable people who make an extraordinary effort to meet their obligations both in college and sports. But it's just physically impossible to be at the same time in two places. And that's why we happen to lose a number of students who are good athletes. Some of them are extremely promising, close to the very European and world summits. Unfortunately, in a situation where they choose between abandoning academic careers or sports they decide to quit sports, to deal with an academic career that is not at all against it. So it is one logical solution but Croatian sport loses it. We need to recognize that, and we need to be aware that the role of one athlete who is heading towards the world's very top especially in these sports where there is no exceptional profit, and these are the ones that brought us all five Olympic medals at the last Olympic Games. In fact, their role is almost their whole life, life in the sense that they have to sacrifice and their education in order to get to the top sports score. In our society, this problem needs to be recognized and made certain changes in order to enable such people to do so. Here we have the case of the extremely gifted Croatian discthrowers. She must also have her educational path that will provide her and after a completed sports career a job that she likes to do, which can work, which would be according to her wishes. So it's a particularly sensitive area in those sports that you can't live in. When it comes to funding sponsorship, then I must say that I'm unusually glad when certain sponsors enter some national sports alliances or help certain athletes on your recommendation. It is, however, a rather high level of organisation in the spending of these funds. But there is a situation in which sponsorship funds are actually directed towards other preferences beyond the influence of the Croatian Olympic Committee, which is not good. When it comes to this latest reduction of income held by the Croatian Olympic Committee in the last year, it of course felt quite strong in national sports alliances. They all saw it as one reality, but it should also be taken into account that in that distribution, redistributions of available funds there are those that in the redistribution model were more or less abolished and that should be balanced in a certain way so that no one in the whole system would be damaged. So let me just conclude one sentence. I will support this report with the desire for Croatian sport to win that objective maximum in the next two years until the Olympic Games. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61947	Thank you. The replica of Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61948	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Serbs, here through my replica I'd actually like to sort of underline some of the problems you've mentioned in your presentation, and I'd like to actually join your regrets, and I'd like to say that there's no one here today in front of the competent ministry. I think we should be. In the part where you talked about inequality in sports opportunities, you mentioned the ratio of rural areas to larger cities. But I would say so, and here it seems to me that it is especially necessary to go to the burden or to the soul of the competent ministry, which is the problem of organised sports activities within schools. Whether schools are in rural areas or in cities. In fact, there are absurd cases in one of the underclasses of Zagreb where children from the lower secondary school have to come to school around 6:30 in the morning because the school principal rents a school hall after 17 hours, because there is no money because that way the school comes to money. And after 17 hours, that school hall was closed to children attending that school. And there seems to be some things to change. And secondly, in the part where you talked about the treatment of sports in the media, I think that we need to be particularly critical of our public media primarily when we talk about HRT because I have a feeling that I don't know if it seems to you, but when you turn on television, it turns out that there is only football in this world. And all the other sports are very little represented in sports shows. I'm not gonna mention women's football. But here it seems to me that perhaps some policy co-ordination can be done by many who are dealing with sports problems in Croatia and in that part can make certain shifts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61949	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61950	Dear fellow Sobol, when it comes to sports especially in elementary schools, I must say that I am quite critical in the way a large number of professors are working on physical health education in schools in terms of recognition and talent and their connections with the entire sports system. So it's a system that's isolated from sports too much and I have to say that there is also a very high level of lack of interest in the professors of exercise in Croatia for the talents that pass through school and should be recognized in that sport sense, they should be consulted on which sports would be optimal for them, which could be available to them, which could be dealt with in which they could achieve adequate results. I don't think that relationship is well enough established, or maybe it's not a well-organized whole system of exercise in primary and secondary schools. As far as media surveillance is concerned, when it comes to public television, I can say that I am in little contentment with public television. But when it comes to this, I'm less dissatisfied than in some other segments of public television activity. He only had the opportunity to revolve once just by such a situation to address one complaint and I must say that he reacted and a change was noticed for the better that, otherwise, for such an institution a very rare situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61951	Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. He's gone. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic, too. Final review, President of the Croatian Olympic Committee Mr. Zlatko Mateša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61952	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I thank you first of all for your discussions. Many things have been said there that create us some obligations for future reports as well. What I'd like to ask you to do is first of all not to lose that pace on these development programs even under these conditions of crisis. Today we have 390 athletes and athletes and over 35 sports. All you see is everything you read from judo, wrestling, boxing, all those media-obsessed sports, all those medals, they're all from our programs. All these young people are funded by the citizens and citizens of this country through the budget of the Croatian Olympic Committee. Therefore, next year we will also give you a report and a list to see which number of athletes and athletes are involved, which age and sports structures they come from. The second thing I absolutely share with the Honorable Serbian representative, which is also the question of the Madam Representative, the issue of media representation of sports and equality in some way. We haven't been able to get to that yet, we haven't been able to find mechanisms that would guarantee that you can see one Snježana Pejičić or Martin Zupčić in the regular competition in the Croatian championship unless maybe in Dance for the Stars if he accidentally enters. We will go to the sports TV concession precisely for reasons to ensure the media accessibility of domestic sports. And that's where I'm asking for your support. After all, it is of course difficult to talk about all aspects of what is said. What's really important is that it's said and it's about high school and schooling athletes and athletes. For example, our top skiers break out of the country about 210, 220 days a year. Everyone wants to study, everyone wants to study, everyone can study, but in the end they can't because of technical stuff, Bologna, they can't because of an opportunity that doesn't recognize e-learning, distance learning and everything that today is sort of legality in other countries. And we have taken all the steps that are in our power to change this situation. We have indications that some universities will practically make their decisions within the next month and a half to recognise the status of top athletes in this regard of study and study regimes, which would allow them to implement what the International Olympic Committee concludes as our roof associations are so-called. double careers. A parallel and top-notch sports career but also academic. And here I ask you to, at the time when it comes before you and the laws relating to higher education, to give us support and to make it possible for top athletes to enter those laws to be granted that equality. I know that most of you are engaged in various voluntary sports projects and thank you for that, too. And thank you for this support we got. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61953	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. 8. Programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2009. Carrier of the Croatian Olympic Committee. In accordance with the proposal of the Government and the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: the programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2009 is accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? From 100 to zero, the proposed report was unanimously accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61956	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. As regards this Proposal for a Law on the Register of Councils and Coordinations and Representatives of National Minorities, I would like to say just a few words in introduction. Namely, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities has prescribed that local and regional self-government units in which members of a minority participate with an appropriate percentage in the total population of local self-government units can choose a council of national minorities. These councils of national minorities are non-profit legal entities. The property of that legal person shall be entered in the Register of National Minorities Councils run by the Ministry of Public Administration Affairs. Also, this council of national minorities that in the area of units of local self-government, municipalities and cities and regional self-government means in the counties could establish co-ordination of councils, however, these coordinations had no legal personality. The Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities of June 2010 prescribed that the coordination of national minority councils for the territory of the Republic of Croatia is a non-profit legal person. The property of a legal person shall be entered in a register managed by the Ministry responsible for the affairs of the General Administration. Accordingly, the Government proposes a proposal for a Council Register Act, Council Coordination and National Minorities Representatives, which regulates, in fact by one technical law, the way in which the Register of Councils is entered, the coordination of councils and representatives of national minorities, as well as changes in data and conditions for the registration and erasure of the same register. As part of the debate on this bill, there is another issue that is not the content of this bill, which concerns the provision of the Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, which, among other things, is prescribed to regulate the way of work and the financing of coordination by law. So it was a suggestion, a proposal that it would be good to consider one law to regulate and register or register the council, coordination and representatives and mode of work and to finance coordination in order to have one law. We think that, until the second reading, we could consider these proposals and the idea that we would then have one law that would regulate the issue and the register and the methods of work and the financing of coordination, not that we have two laws that would regulate it in order to make this legislative part concerning the council, coordination and representatives of national minorities. All the comments and suggestions already made at the working bodies' meetings have already been considered and most of us, I think we have also agreed and all the comments and suggestions that are and at this session we will consider and possibly install for a second reading in the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61957	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61958	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club supports the bill. Namely, it resists this position is found in the first row in the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which, of course, determines that in the Republic of Croatia, equality is guaranteed for members of all national minorities and that equality and protection of the rights of national minorities is governed by constitutional law. In addition, Article 15 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia determines that members of all national minorities are primarily guaranteed freedom of expression of nationality, but also free to serve with their own language and letter and cultural autonomy. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, i.e. by amending it and by supplementing it, which took effect in July 2010 in more detail on the issues of structure and functioning, could show organisational forms, hence national minority bodies, and should firstly highlight those provisions that regulate the status of selected national councils of national minorities and their coordinations. It is precisely by virtue of the constitutional law that the coordination of national minorities' councils in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is defined as a non-profit legal person, with the provision that the legal person's property is entered in the register, and that registry is headed by the Ministry of Public Administration Affairs. The mode of work and funding of coordination is governed by the law itself. It is also for the purpose of mentioning that provision of a constitutional law which determines that, when international contracts, a certain function of the coordination of the national minority may also be performed by the roof association of that minority. Therefore, the following constitutional provisions and provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities have been joined by the adoption of this law in question, which is firstly discussed by the following legal institutes. In turn, these are: 1. the way in which the registration of the Board, the coordination of councils and representatives of national minorities, the 2nd change in the data on the registration itself and the 3rd erasure from the register itself is arranged. In accordance with the provisions of Article 5 of the proposed law of the Council of National Minorities and the coordination of national minorities, non-profit legal persons are non-profit legal persons, and the legal personality itself takes place on the day of their registration in the register. The register shall be conducted in electronic form, accompanied by a collection of documents. The registry is public and is run by the ministry responsible for the affairs of the general administration. The application for registration in the register shall be submitted within 30 days of the date of the Council's construction or coordination. The application for registration of a national minority representative must be submitted within 30 days of the date on which the competent Electoral Commission shall publish the official results of the election. The other provisions of this Act, in its essence, are, therefore, technical or procedural norms which, for the highlighted provision of Article 20, which regulates that the Minister in charge of the affairs of the General Administration will prescribe the form and content of the electronic register and the necessary forms for the registration and issuing of documents within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this Act. And, of course, it should be pointed out that the law is prescribed and supervised. In fact, the supervision of the implementation of this Act shall be carried out by the Ministry responsible for the affairs of the General Administration. This law is in the first reading. Given that we had the opportunity to hear the Honorable State Secretary, who, in his explanation, of course, said that all the remarks and proposals that were highlighted, and especially in terms of the legal obligation to define and the financial segment of this Act, we at the Croatian Democratic Community club, by supporting this bill in the first reading of the opinion, are that this is exactly what we should do, i.e. by law, to work out naturally until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61959	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61960	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. I will, on behalf of the SDSS Club, try to comment on this bill that is before us, because in some way and as members of the minority community who are the most consummable and for which this is the most useful text we have some obligation to say what we think about this proposal, to analyse it and, in some technical sense, since the Secretary of State has said here, I agree with it that this is some sort of technical law, that in a technical sense, it makes it to the level that it is fully usable, or that there are no misunderstandings and shortcomings in the very technical implementation of this law, or the implementation of all those actions that need to be carried out. I'll try and explain it later in the debate. But now let me remind you just because I don't think it's a bad thing to say what the role of the National Minority Council is, in fact, prescribed under the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. It could now list a taxary dozen such significant roles and tasks as representatives of national minorities in the community. But I think it is particularly necessary to single out and publicly say that these are, they have the authority to propose units of self-government measures to improve the position of national minorities, including to make proposals for general acts governing issues of importance for the national minority. I say this because from experience when I worked in regional self-government, it has often been misread and insufficiently familiar with the role of minority councils in these very important processes of the adoption of acts at local and regional level concerning the problems of national minorities. They therefore also have the authority to highlight candidates for duties in the authorities of the state administration and bodies of the local self-government units. They have the right to be informed of any issue that will be discussed by the working bodies of the representative body of the local self-government unit. This assumes that local self-government then establish one relationship with such a single body in a way that priorly delivers an opinion, i.e. to learn about all the acts that local self-government adopts and concern the minority community. Those that are very important to us can give opinions and suggestions on radio and television programmes at local, regional level for national minorities. This is very important for us because we have, often we feel that we have a certain information blockade and that we are not enough with these problems, this problem of ours is represented in the informational space of our environments. And finally, what is prescribed and what is very important to say is that units of local self-government and regional self-government are therefore required to provide assumptions for the work of councils and assumptions for the work of representatives of national minorities in their space. We have the same different experiences here. Some did it, some didn't, some didn't think they shouldn't do it. Some think that these rights are given to them and too much rights, etc. etc. So, the law, the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities in this matter, is very clear and explicit. It has already been said that the constitutional basis is the right to be elected as part of the local minority self-government council. The Councils later have the opportunity to join in certain coordinations as some kind of upgrade. That's what I'm saying because, say, only the Serbian National Minority has about 132 councils in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, whether the municipal, whether the county. So it's a large number and it's quite logical that there's a need for some kind of co-ordination body that would unite somehow these kind of policies, local minority policies co-ordinate with them and somehow control them and somehow establish co-operation with all these local councils. Therefore, we wanted this Law when we talked to the Proposer, we wanted to create one text that would allow the councils, the coordinations and other forms of association to register and carry out all those actions in a way that would be done by law, to rise from the level of regulations or any instructions from the competent ministries and to raise it to the level of legal norms. And I think we did it mostly with this text. I thank this occasion and thank the competent ministry, which has persistently and patiently spoken to us and held a debate on the subject. These discussions have often been times and nervous. But the ministry did have patience and formed a legal text like this. I would now say some kind of thinking about the text itself, which I think is very important, in order for the text to be completed and that it would be useful for the purpose for which it should be adopted, and that is registration, the way these councils will be registered, how they will be entered, if necessary, so that when they are created and cleared from that register, etc., so that we can make it easier for those bodies who need to comply with this law to make it easier for them to work. The Register Act Article 3 lists which councils and which minority associations have the right to enter. In addition to the Council of the National Minorities of Local Self-Government, there are the Council of National Minorities of the Regional Minorities of the Local Government, there are the coordination of minority councils for the territory of the Republic of Croatia, established by the Council of National Minorities of the Units of the Region (regional) of Self-Government, there are representatives of national minorities in the units of local and regional (regional) self-government, and finally there are other forms of association between national minorities established in accordance with international contracts, and this has a fundamental assumption in the law itself. If that's the case, then when I later analyzed the text, I'd have one general remark, but it would be more suggestions. So in all the other technical details, it is said, the councils and the council coordination are being abrogated, and that's where we stopped. So if we analyze a member per member, then I think we should put a wording in terms of councils, council coordination and other forms of association between national minorities established in accordance with international contracts, and I'll say why. Article 4 thus provides for the time of entry into the register, but it is again said that the time of entry is decided only for the council and for the coordination. The key question is, what about the other associations that are listed here, that in accordance with Article 3, they will be able to register. Here, if I now refer to other forms of association of national minorities, then I think it should be defined in a way that they will be enrolled in the act of this law, if they already exist, if they already exist, that is, on the date of establishment when they are founded on some new formats that are established by some future international contracts. It's some kind of suggestion that I think should be operationally embedded here. The key article is Article 5. This Article 5 lays down how the status of a legal non-profit is acquired. And then it is said here that the council and coordination in Article 5(2) of the Council and the coordination acquire legal personality on the day of entry into the register. Point. We believe that this is an insufficient formulation and that it should also be extended with these other forms of association referred to in Article 3, and I think it is a happier variant to say that the forms of association referred to in Article 3 acquire legal personality on the day of enrolment in the register. I think it's a much more correct formula, which then doesn't create any additional problems. Article 6 shall refer to the acts to be adopted by the Council and the Coordination Board in the event of such registration and shall submit to the Court of Auditors, which shall be the Statute, the Work Programme, the Financial Plan, the Final Account, etc., etc. We think this is a declarative well said, but the key issue is the work programme, the financial plan, the final account. The final account is fine, but the financial plan, to whom is handed unless we have defined how the sources of funding are financed. This is what the Secretary of State said in his opening statement, we fully agree, that we need this text, so we will complete this text with a matter which, by regulating how the council works and financing, coordination and all other forms of association. Why do I say that? Because here we have different experiences, that it's only left to finance councils, and even these higher forms, such as the county council, are left on the ground, it's quite, quite a free assessment of the ruling options, which are in power in those units of local self-government. So you have funding from minimum funds, where certain units of local self-government still do not accept the fact that councils are something that is legally prescribed thing. We have funding to disproportionate, a situation to disproportionately large separations. We have units that single out disproportionately large money to individual councils. We interpret this as a reason, the main reason is that in this way it is intended in an indirect way to favour this council, in relation to the current political party from that national community. And we also have the forms and the fact that we have, in the funding itself, we have the... So the same money is shared, not respecting the fact that relatively some number of members of a particular national community, not respecting the fact that some have some projects, some have no, some have larger activities, some have no larger ones. [[You don't understand.]] So what I'm trying to say is that some order and some standard would be introduced into this most sensitive point of all that, and that's funding, to standardize it, let's then make some general rules that would then, which would cover all this ground, and at the level of funding, the way in which the municipal councils, the county councils, and even co-ordination, etc. We think that coordination as some kind of the highest form of association, coordination at the state level should be exclusively related to the state budget, which of course has its logic, and that they should have specific rules and specific obligations in terms of justification and demonstration of those funds, etc. Then my remark would be that it should be corrected with the supplement both through Article 9 and Article 10, through Article 11, Article 12, so that there is one broad definition missing in these articles everywhere, and the apostrophe of entities that have certain rights in these articles, so I suggest that the second reading simply accepts these remarks. If they are accepted, we think we are going to create a good legal framework, to systematise the very matter that has been on a lower level, precisely at the level of multiple acts, I think we are going to get quality, and members of national minorities, or members of councils will get certain security, rules of conduct in terms of funding, in terms of organisation. Finally, if it was also an intrinsic of this legal text, certain entities, i.e. certain minority associations of the age and legal entity. And you see, with this text, we have achieved that goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61961	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of National Minorities, the esteemed representative Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61962	Honorable Vice President, Your Honors Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The National Minority Club supports the adoption of the Law on the Register of Councils, Coordination and Representatives of National Minorities because today we have chosen 380 councils and representatives of national minorities through two elections practically in Croatia. If we add that, in the summer of the amendments to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, we have practically introduced the legal status of coordination in any case, it is necessary to define in one place the content and conditions for enrolment in the register. Then normal acts to be adopted by the Council of Coordination, which is the competent authority, obligations of the Council of National Minorities and Coordination, are precisely in the application and submission of the application itself, as well as any changes and erasures from the register, the power to adopt certain rules and, normally, to know which supervisory authority, or to whom to address at that time. However, at the same time, they were defined by the Constitutional Law that both the mode of work and the funding of what is respected secretary and mentioned, as well as by fellow Horvat, but also by a normal HDZ colleague, where it is apparent that some hyperproduction of the law should not be subject to any kind of hyperproduction, but to unite it into one law when it comes to the same theme. In fact, the protection of national minorities and the rights and freedoms of representatives of national minorities are already governed by the Constitutional Law and so we have 2 laws, the Law on Minority Education, and we already have the Law on the Use of Official Minority Language. So there's the Register Act now, and it's good to try to bring it all together. However, for the sake of participation in public life and local affairs, members of national minorities have indeed been given the importance of participating and creating minority policy by selecting the Council of National Minorities and representatives. However, this certainly depends on the number of states of members of national minorities in the local self-government unit whether representatives are elected, whether councils are elected, or now it is also good that coordination will get legal status because we know that there is a possibility of establishing coordination at horizontal level in the same unit of local self-government between different minorities, i.e. by verticals within a minority to a state level. Another question is being opened with funding and the work we discussed. I don't know where, but maybe even in the Electoral Law or maybe seeing here that the time of the election is defined, or the elections are every 4 years, they're, like, now it's time for the elections in the next year when there's parliamentary elections. However, it might be wise to consider whether to tie up these elections, whether with parliamentary or local because both have certain advantages and certain shortcomings. In fact, if we see that elections for minority councils and representatives in the middle of the mandate of the unit leaders of local self-government are always one waiting for the elections, the others are in the elections and I must say that the research conducted by the Faculty of Political Sciences has shown that there is still a lot of ignorance and failure of individual councils. On the one hand, and because of not knowing the units of local self-government, which is a domain of the work of the council itself is a minority, but also an insufficient education of the representatives and councils themselves, that is one problem. Another problem that opens up with the elections itself is fewer polling stations when these elections are held. Furthermore, a lot, i.e. the price of these choices themselves, which is relatively high. On the other hand, perhaps by unifying and on the one hand, it would have been obtained on the other hand because, practically, when minority elections for these elections are not intended for any promotion, i.e. no means are foreseen, no one provides for promotion and elections because they are not primarily involved in political parties. And this way, perhaps, if it were to relate to certain elections, whether local, whether parliamentary, would not be missing that segment, and I say on the one hand, it would be saved and I think it would be obtained precisely in the quality of co-operation between the councils and local self-government units because that is exactly the goal of the council being in some way a bond between the units of local self-government. On the other hand, the mass of associations operating within national minorities would be far, far more quality. But the question also arises when all of this is looked at which is not resolved, when it is seen that part of the council is still and after 2 mandates does not work that certain councils do not have the material resources provided, meaning space, administrative support then it must really be said that something in these relations is wrong, so obviously it should carry out the revision of the Constitutional Law itself and all of these issues that should be dealt with in some way in order to achieve what is minority self-government and imagined. But to go back to the law, the law if it completes with what we talked about, which means the way it works and if it completes with the financing of coordination because units of local self-government are obliged to finance at their council level, normally also the county. Since coordination is most often at national level, it is logical to expect that the means of work will also be found in accordance with Article 28 at that level. And I think that's where the consent will be achieved and I hope to find a solution by the second reading. However, he remains, and his colleague Horvat has talked about this, that the national councils who have obtained the status of coordination, i.e. legal personality, should be included normally in the Constitutional Law. Therefore, they should be taken into account when listed in Articles 1 and 4 respectively. But is there anything else that coordination might need to predict, which is what with representatives of national minorities? In fact, representatives are elected in those environments where there are no conditions for councils. These representatives have received some status, or activity of the same council, but they should be included in the coordination. Only now is the question being raised whether with the right to vote, without the right to vote, but precisely to include representatives in the work because they are doing the same job, in this way not mandatory, not included, and they are precisely those who do not have, who have the least possibility of contact with the minority. If we take the Council to be 10, 15 or 25 members depending on which level they are elected, yet more people agree here, run some minority policy. The representative remained alone, on the other hand if he was not bound horizontally, whether by verticality in his minority he was literally a person who led some kind of policy and it would be necessary to keep an eye on when talking about the coordination that the representative would be involved. But I'm saying it's hard now to define with what right if we define something more or a way of working, but we shouldn't rule it out just for the sake of the connection and quality of work within the minorities themselves, and ultimately to justify the choice of such a representative who has a certain role in the life and work of minorities. Here, these are just some thoughts about what should be done until the second reading, I hope you will respect some of our remarks and normally, as I said at the beginning, the Club of National Minorities supports the adoption of this Law, now in the first reading, and we expect a better second proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61963	Thank you. It's the SDP Club's turn, the distinguished representative, Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61964	Thank you, Vice President. Today we have before us a first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Register of Councils, Council coordination and representatives of the National Minorities. The proposal was created as the proposal states, as it is estimated that the work of the uniform and completeness of the recording of the present organisational forms of action of national minorities is necessary by law to prescribe the conditions and manner of their registration. It is also said that the procedure and the way of registration and the council has so far been governed by a sublegal act and is now proposed to be governed by the Law without reason why the current model should be changed. The area of national minorities in our country is governed by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities and other international agreements, and the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia and the Law on Education and Education in the Language and Letter of National Minorities. By applying the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in 2003 and 2007, general elections were held for the Councils and representatives of national minorities in municipalities, cities and counties, and then a number of councils and representatives applied their rights under Article 33. Constitutional law and established coordination. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitutional Law of the Council of the National Minority is a non-profit legal person. The legal person's property shall be entered in the register of the Council of National Months managed by the Ministry responsible for the affairs of the General Administration, and paragraph 5 shall be further arranged for the Minister responsible for the affairs of the General Administration to prescribe the contents of the National Minority Council register and the way it is managed, and the form of the application for registration in the National Minority Council register. The amendments and additions to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities which, without a public debate, came into force in the 6th month and entered into force on 7 July of this year, are recognised by the coordination of the Council of National Minorities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia referred to in Article 33(4). Constitutional law. In addition to these coordinations of amendments and additions to the Constitutional Law, the National Council of National Minorities, acting as the coordination of the Council of National Minorities, has been given the opportunity to perform a national minority coordination function as well as a roof association and minority, and the Serbian National Council acts as the coordination of the Council of the Serbian National Minority for the territory of the Republic of Croatia and has legal personality. These changes also found that the way work and the financing of coordination are regulated by law. Regarding the issue of coordination, we note that, with the coordination of the Council of National Minorities for the territory of the Republic of Croatia, there are numerous coordinations of other species. Often these are the coordinations of more or all national minorities established in the area of a region, a city or another area, and the Commission is talking about good examples of the joint action of national minorities in achieving its minority interests. However, only the coordination of the Council of National Minorities for the territory of the Republic of Croatia has gained legal personality, while the legal personality of the other forms of coordination is not the Constitutional Law but is trying to enable this law. And so, instead of meeting the requirements of most national minorities, we are to recognise their coordination of legal personality and enable action within the legal system to protect the rights of national minorities representing the provision of a chaotic provision of a new Article 33 of the Constitutional Law. On the one hand, the coordination of the Council of National Minorities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is given legal personality but at the same time allowed to parallelly with those coordinations of a particular national minority, so-called. The elected national councils also receive legal personality. In addition to them, the roofing association of those minorities can obtain, on the same basis, legal personality, and thus theoretically under the new provision of Article 33. Each minority may have three legal entities, based on the legal personality provision of the coordination referred to in Article 33. Constitutional law to get that status. There should be no particular emphasis on what problems will arise if and when they are implemented in practice. No, absurd is not the end. When it comes to the Serbian National Minority by direct enrolment in the text of the Constitutional Law, the Association of the Serbian National Council was imposed as the Serbian National Council as a state-level coordination and thus denied the Serbian National Minority County Councils the right to establish the coordination of national minority councils for the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Another major problem that we at the SDP Club see regarding this bill concerns the question of the legal personality of representatives of national minorities. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities found that those minorities that are numerically smaller and yet in a certain percentage represented in the area of a local or regional self-government unit may be elected by one representative to whom Article 34(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union should apply. The constitutional law shall apply the provisions of Articles 28 to 33. Constitutional law, i.e. equalises representatives with the Council in rights and duties. However, the provisions of Article 25 shall not apply to representatives. The constitutional law on the legal personality of the council and no other provision has given representatives legal personality. As a rule, many representatives representing a number of fewer national minorities have warned of this failure, and the SDP Club has also supported their demands that representatives be equal to the councils in the right sense, because we believe that the current situation is discriminatory towards smaller national minorities or their representatives. We regret that the representatives of national minorities in the Croatian Parliament representing all minorities in Croatia are not in the proposal to amend and supplement the constitutional law that they themselves have proposed to provide for the possibility that, with coordination and representatives, they will receive legal personality by establishing an appropriate register. This law would have to be fully in line with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities but it is not. However, in a number of articles enabling the legal personality of representatives and the coordination of national minorities not established for the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the constitutional law is directly violated. We support the regret that the issue of legal personality of representatives and co-ordinations that are not established throughout the Republic of Croatia has been left out because they have been damaged primarily by fewer national minorities and their representatives and coordination and the opportunity for a broad consensus that all political parties have shown then to implement quality changes to the Constitutional Law. The SDP has always supported the legitimate requirements of national minorities, and we will do so in the future, but the basis for protection of minorities is the rule of law, or rule of law, which in this case means respecting the provisions of the Constitutional Law and amending the text of the proposal of this law because it is contrary to the constitutional law. Now I'm going to refer to some of the provisions of this bill that we consider to be missing. For example, in Article 1 which determines the subject matter of the law as well as the name of the law itself, it makes quite a confusion because after the infection it lists the concept of coordination between councils and representatives of national minorities. It can be concluded from the text of the bill that this does not mean co-ordination of councils and representatives, which is the common name of most established coordinations in the Republic of Croatia, but the concept should be read as a co-ordination of councils as one concept and representatives of national minorities as a second term. In the lists of these bodies in the constitutional law, the order and formulation of the councils and representatives or the coordination of councils and representatives is common because it is the fact that the councils and representatives are directly elected representative bodies of national minorities, and that coordination is due to the name of the co-ordination body in which the councils and representatives are voluntarily joined by agreements in order to achieve their interests. Article 2 gives the purpose of electing councils and representatives which should not be subject to this law, which is already subject to constitutional law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In addition to the logical division of the two categories of councils and the two categories of coordination according to the scope of the constitutional law, the division into two categories shall not apply although the Constitutional Law of Article 34 equates the Councils and representatives in the rights and duties. In particular, category 6 is questionable. other forms of association of national minorities established in accordance with international agreements. The Council and the representatives were elected representative bodies of national minorities, and the coordination of bodies that they establish by association and transfer of parts of their powers, and in this system there is no room for including so-called "Constitutional Law". other forms of association of national minorities, as this is the register of councils, representatives and coordination, while associations of national minorities are registered in the planned register of associations. Article 4 provides that the Council is to be entered in the register after the elections have been made. We think the basis for enrolment in the register should be to establish councils as is the case now. It is only by the act of establishing a council that begins its action. In the case of coordinations, the proposal for a law in the same article requires a decision as a presumption of their entry into the register, and for the one referred to in paragraph 3 requires an agreement which does not make much sense and which should be harmonised by probably using the concept of an agreement in both examples. Further coordination should be brought to the Council in both paragraphs, as they are the most common founders or members of each coordination in accordance with Article 34. Constitutional law. Paragraphs 2 and 4 of Article 4 are contrary to the Constitutional Law, which provides for legal personality only in addition to the Council for the coordination of establishment for the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Article 6 determines which acts are to be adopted by the Council and the coordination. There's a lot of open questions about that. First, if all of the above acts are not a presumption of registration, then we do not see logic in their indication in the text of this law. Second, it is established that the Statute contains provisions on the name, seat of the rights and obligations of the field of action of representation but does not individually provide an example of the public of work and objectives and activities, the organisation and bodies of signs and symbols, acquisition of property management, prizes and compensation of members, and the establishment and operation of professional services as mandatory parts of the Statute. Article 7 states that the representative has a name under which he carries out his duties. What exactly does that mean? Well, every body has a name under which they do their jobs, but the name itself is not usually the basis of legal personality. Here instead of the necessary arrangement of the action of a representative who as an individual has a specific place and the role within the system we get a provision that makes sense to ourselves. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 11(1) states the contrary to Article 4 of this Act that the entry will take place 30 days after the date of the constitution, as stated in the section of the debate concerning Article 4 of this Act. We also draw attention to the latest item in this article, which says the appeal for a solution in the registration is not allowed. In the correlation with the amended Article 33, which allows even three different entities to request and obtain registration with the status of coordination established for the Republic of Croatia, there may be a lot of problems. Article 12 defines the content of the registration solution and ultimately lists the composition of the council or coordination during the term of office. When it comes to the council, its composition and the result of the election, but the issue of the coordination composition is raised. Who under this law is coordinating? The Councils themselves who establish, councils and representatives, council presidents and representatives, representatives of the Council of Delegates and representatives or others, since constitutional law amending associations are also allowed to obtain the status of coordination. Article 14 shall re-separate the representative from the presidents and members of the Council and shall require him to report a change of personal data without determining what the concept of personal data was about. And since I see my time running out slowly, I will bring the debate to an end. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that the SDP club supports, supports and supports members of national minorities in the exercise of their rights. One of these rights is the choice of councils and representatives, i.e. the establishment of coordination between national minorities. We support the granting of legal personality to representatives and the coordination of national minorities, as has already been given to the council of national minorities, but the way it is done through this law is not good. We supported in June as well as most of the other parties in this Assembly the proposal of representatives of national minorities to amend and supplement the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities. It was an opportunity for representatives of largely smaller national minorities, but also for co-ordinations not established for the Republic of Croatia that legal personality but minority representatives did not propose this, but rather limited their proposals to their narrow interests, and now, through this law, they are trying to resolve this failure and by proposing a law contrary to the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. That's why we can't support it because fighting for minority rights can't go by breaking the law. Analyzing this law, but by communicating with a number of members of national minorities who are members or voters of the SDP we conclude, the Republic of Croatia needs the Law on Councils, Representatives and Coordinations, but not a narrow technical law that would only settle the issue of registers, but we need a comprehensive Law on Councils, Representatives and Coordination of National Minorities where the issue of registers would be just one of the chapters. When the SDP takes responsibility for the future of the country, we will prepare such a law in cooperation with representatives of national minorities and those of large and large minorities. The SDP Club will not support the Proposal for a Council Register Act, Council Coordination and Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61965	Thank you very much. And by that time, we must make the law. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61966	Well, I'd like to correct a few inaccuracies a colleague claims. First of all, all coordinations get legal personality because it's been defined by law and previously defined. Furthermore, when you stand up for the council and the coordination of all minorities, it is not possible because not all minorities are elected by the councils because it depends on their numerical composition in the total population of the local self-government unit. Therefore, only 7 minorities or 8 minorities of 22 who have been recognised in the Republic of Croatia are elected by the council and representatives because others do not satisfy that minimum to be over 100 in the local self-government unit to elect a representative, or over 200 members of a minority, so that they can choose a council or 500 if we go to the county. So I think that as far as the legal personality of the representatives themselves is concerned, they're not...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61967	Time, time...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61968	Here's just one sentence. As for the representatives of the legal personality, you did not support them when they asked for representatives here in the Parliament and they must use their own OIB in their business. It will obviously have to be done by representatives and it is the only solution that can be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61969	Thank you. And the last club today, HNS-HSU, the esteemed representative of Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61970	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Greetings to the applicant's representative. We have a proposal for a law that is extremely unusual, so we have different forms of civil association, association by different basics, business association. This seems to be the first law that defines one completely technical thing, and it's a register. A register which, in law otherwise, represents one methodology for the collection and storage of data, i.e. the collection and definition of those who have certain rights under the law. It is obvious that the equivalent of this law would be, for example, the law on the register of associations, the law on registering of a whole series of other forms of association, the law on the register of institutions. All of this actually stems from the fact that this year, due to constitutional changes, due to very tight discussions about individual changes and amendments to the Constitution at the last minute, there have been some compromises between the Croatian Democratic Community as the majority party of the ruling coalition and representatives of national minorities as coalition partners who have actually given birth to certain arrangements that should have been translated into constitutional law, and the constitutional law as you remember we passed before we actually changed the Constitution itself. So it's a tied-up store. This was not a good framework for resolving these issues because it is now shown that, in fact, by nominating constitutional law, we have solved only one partial issue, and a whole series of issues that are being warned by representatives of national minorities, both those who have been sitting in the Assembly for the past 8 to 10 years and those who participate in the work of coordination, but also the association of national minorities, remain on the side. Of course, the result of such changes to the constitutional law which primarily favoured a solution that was quite doubtful, even behind the course of the minority itself, which is a Serb minority, led to today's obligation to resolve the issue of legal personality and coordination mentioned in that constitutional law and to resolve the situation in which one's legal personality is mentioned in the constitutional law, and in practice, legal personality and others, while others are representatives of national minorities. Instead of accessing this issue systematically, to measure exactly how much we managed to do by constitutional law, which needs remained unsecured by legal regulations, and then on the trail of what Mrs. Holly was announcing, to define the new law on representatives, councils and coordinations that would, as a full legal solution, cover all the shortcomings of the existing system where the register would then be treated as a technical question, somewhere along the lines of that law, we are now going to the register law. It is good that he is in the first reading and that there is a chance that the Proposer will give up this concept and approach the whole solution. What do we get by this law, what do we get by this law? One technical form that will actually try to patch up the gaps between the practices of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the practices arising from the Law on the Selection of Representatives and Councils of National Minorities. It's not good because it's going to lead to a whole series of difficulties in practice that we consider to be no one, but they literally don't use anyone. No one will benefit from this law in this way, but from a whole law that will define the role, position, function, tasks, way of action, council representatives and coordination, of which it is of any benefit. Go on. Article 3 defines who is in the register, i.e. who will register everything, and then actually comes up with a complete imbalance. This means the coordination of the Council of National Minorities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, established by the Council of National Minorities of Units of Regional (regional) Self-Government in the light of paragraph 3 of Article 4 of the coordination of the Council of National Minorities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, is entered in the register when more than half of the Council of National Minorities of the Region (regional) of Self-Government has joined. What does that mean? How to deprive the legislator of a national minority that is territorially homogeneous, for historical reasons, and more than autochton in the Republic of Croatia, of this provision, just because it is not in more than half of the county in the Republic of Croatia. So can we change the history of the 17th, 18th century? So how far does this kind of recognition problem go? Will at least the representatives elected in other counties have that status? Can they compensate for the lack of coordination at the county level? People talk about 21st County with the City of Zagreb. What are we talking about? So we know where the largest national minority reserve is. It is the continental part of Croatia, it is the historical Slavonia. So what do we do now? That we must be Dubrovnik-Neretva, in Split-Dalmatia, in Sibenik, Zadar? What are we talking about? The membership and right of the national minority and its members do not stem from the territorial determination of dwellings, but from national belongings. Why are we doing this? What's that for? Will this provision also stimulate conflicts in national and minority communities? So when one situation is doubled by county organizations, or county coordination, and I can't sign an agreement like this, but there are in most counties, what do we do then? Shouldn't the law actually regulate that all co-ordination at County level is automatically part of the coordination at the level of the Republic of Croatia. Shall we fight again and rule? We want to remember '92, '93, '94. What did politics do to Italian and German, Serbian and other national minorities, Bosniaks, in what way has they infiltrated national and minority organisations? What German organization ended, the German minority ended up on five organizations? How was the Italian Union about to be broken? How did the Russians and the Ukrainians split up? How did the circus work around Bosniak organizations? So we haven't forgotten exactly what happened in the 1990s, not in the interests of the Republic of Croatia, not in the interests of its citizens, not in the interests of national minorities, but in the partial interests of certain political teams. It's been a while. Guys, let's relax. Largest, I would say the most fruitful period in the development of a modern political nation, the Croatian political nation seemed to be at its very beginnings, at the time of the Croatian national rebirth, when among the 100 champions of the Croatian Ilir National Revival were both Stas, and Gaj, and Demeter, and Shenoa, if you will both Neustadter, and Sthockaus baronica, we can list them as many as you want, Visner, i.e. Livadić, Fuchs, i.e. Lisinski, Kuhač, i.e. Koch. And why is that? Because they embraced their country of Croatia and did everything possible to make national feelings developed. Finally, it will be developed among the Croats, as one nation where the process was somewhat delayed. And there was no problem, and there was no duplication. Why? Because the Croats as dominant and in this national movement, because he is theirs above all, felt that they could relax against the members of the national minorities because they saw everyone together building the same house. I want to see that time again, no more fear, no one will ever endanger the Republic of Croatia again, no more Croats will escape the chair, they will not slip the ground under their feet, they will not escape the state. And when we understand that, then we will also be different from the national minority-tormented Corps, and we will realize that it is quite easy and easy to solve for the benefit of all Croatian citizens. There is no need for issues of particular importance to national minorities to become any subject of political trade between political parties. This is not an undeniable issue of either the HDZ or the SDP or the HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61971	Your Honor, I want you back on the subject, and that's the National Minorities Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61972	This is the Council Register Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61973	About the register. So I'm just trying to tell you as wide as I can let you in my freedom of thought, but you've gone a little too far. Get back to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61974	You don't know what law is called.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61975	I've got it written here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61976	So do I.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61977	Come on, then talk about that law, if you know what they're talking about. Come on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61978	No, I'll stop here. Not if the vice president of our House doesn't understand what I'm talking about and if it's too wide, thank you very much. The Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Retired Party will not support the law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61979	Thank you very much. The vice president understood exactly and understood your debate, and in good interest he let you go as wide as possible, but you have no boundaries, so I had to tell you a little bit to get close to the subject. Thank you very much. We have two rectifications of incorrect allegations, the first is the distinguished representative of Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61980	Although I don't have a habit of correcting it, I couldn't help but correct my colleague when he criticised the establishment of co-ordination at the state level, and the accession of the half-majority. This is a colleague defined by the constitutional law adopted in 2002. I will now not honor who is the creator of that law, who passed it, etc., but I will say that it literally says that coordination at the state level can be established when it is approached by a half-way majority of elected county minority councils. Therefore, those counties that choose and do not choose all because again I return to the fact that those counties that do not have a population of enough minorities do not choose councils and therefore cannot participate in coordination. And it'll never be 21 counties. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61981	Please don't throw it out of the bench. ... Don't throw it out of the bench. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61982	Constitutional law defines it, read it in the Constitutional Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61983	Thank you very much. ... Please don't throw it out of the bench. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's move on, correcting the incorrect allegations of a respected representative and vice president of House Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61984	Well, it is not the exact claim by the respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh that when the Constitutional Law was passed, amendments and additions to the Constitutional Law on National Minorities and the Constitution in June last year were made to political trade. It is true that members of certain national minorities as one guarantee that they will be asked to adopt the constitution before, vote and accept the amendment and addition of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities by amending national minorities that have below 1.5% of the total population of the Republic of Croatia have been given a colloktically double right to vote. The members of certain national minorities also wanted to have a firm guarantee that before the constitution was passed and in the Constitutional Law they would indeed implement it. Secondly, all the content where you state that there is necessity and obligation regarding certain coordinations which Mrs. Chuhnil Zdenka corrected are possibilities. A certain qualified majority of certain coordinations are needed, in order to create coordination at national level. Thirdly, as regards the content of work and action itself, it shall be governed by the statutes and other normative acts. So it's all covered, believe me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61985	Thank you. We move on to an individual debate, the first distinguished representative is Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61986	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, I would like to say that as a representative of the HSP, I will not support this law for some reasons that we had certain doubts that they were actually leading to something, which is a substitution for the community of the councils of municipalities, i.e. the possibility of autonomy, political autonomy in the Republic of Croatia, which is totally unacceptable, and what is seen through Article 3 and this last item that speaks of other forms of association of national minorities, and this particular item should be taken out of this law. That's what Mr Horvat of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS spoke about, and I think it's extremely bad for other national minorities to use such a bill to regulate something that has nothing to do with minority issues at all. I must say that in HSP, we really have nothing against the preservation of language, culture, traditions of national minorities, minority self-government whatever it is called, but this law has served as a platform for something else and precisely this provision, which my colleague Horvat was saying should be extended through other articles of this law actually depends on our relationship with this law. So that item must not be contained in this law because it actually creates a basis for something else. Obviously, the problem is that in Croatia we still have a political option that wants to have a monopoly on Serbian issues in the Republic of Croatia on the one hand. On the other hand, it represents a national minority who does not really want to be a national minority but wants to lead a different policy. It is extremely dangerous for Croatia, and we warn of that. So, once again, I want to draw attention. It is not correct and according to members of other national minorities to use such legal changes in order to build into the Croatian legal system something which is actually likely to continue the policy that led to the SAO Krajina in the Republic of Croatia. It is something that is also a bad policy, a bad message for and members in our opinion of the Serb national minority in the Republic of Croatia. Croatia has stepped into a national segregation policy instead of integration into Croatian political life. We stand up to this concept of politics. We think that it is particularly bad primarily for members of the Serb national minority and in this way only encourages certain reserves that exist when it comes to the demands and attitudes of the Serb national minority. Or perhaps I should say political representatives from the SDSS who represent the Serb national minority and raise the issue of the Serb issue in the Republic of Croatia. The recent headline "News" issued by the Serbian People's Council is actually a statement of a policy that is worrying and which just points to a different political interest that is being represented through minority policy, which is not good, that is what is not acceptable in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61987	Thank you. And last in an individual debate, Vice President of the House, the esteemed Vladimir Shakespeare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61988	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to point out that there are no concerns spoken of by the respected Serbian representative in those fears he raised in his speech. I would start with the fact that on 15 July 2007, as foreseen by the Security Council Resolution, 2020 about 2 thousand UNTAES soldiers were sent from their countries at a ceremony organised at Osijek Airport, the highest officials of the Croatian government, the Croatian State, military commanders, the approach manager Jean Paul Klein and the presence of senior officials on the day of the Klisa military parade were used to sign an agreement on the establishment of a Joint Council of Municipalities, thus fulfilling another obligation set out in the Croatian letter of intent on the completion of the peace reintegration process. The agreement was signed by the approach manager for Croatia Podunavlje Jean Paul Klein, Croatian Deputy Prime Minister Jure Radic, on behalf of the Serbian side Council President Milos Vojnovic, was attended by Defence Minister Gojko Sušak, Croatian Prime Minister Zlatko Matesa and US Ambassador to Croatia Peter Galbrait. And as it has actually started all over this, because in a fundamental agreement that was an important prerequisite for resolving the peaceful reintegration of Croatia, the basic agreement on Eastern Slavonia and Baranja and Western Sreme since 12 November 95 was established in item 12 that the transitional administration would organise elections for local authorities, including municipalities, districts and counties, and help the Serbian Community appoint a common council of municipalities. The letter of the Croatian government's intention to complete peaceful reintegration states that members of the Serbian ethnic community from the area currently under the transitional administration will appoint a common council of municipalities. This letter of intent of the Croatian government welcomed all the heads of diplomatic missions and marked it as a final step towards peaceful reintegration and directed it to the chairman of the United Nations Security Council. Afterwards, the Croatian Government held on 15 October 98, a decision confirming that the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Serbian ethnic community and the UNTS as a witness on 23 May 97th and now in accordance with the constitutional laws, in accordance with the basic agreement on the territory of Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem, this point 12, quoted earlier, paragraph 4 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the completion of peaceful reintegration, established a common Council of municipalities which will have legal personality status and is established in accordance with the regulations of the Republic of Croatia and it harmonizes the interest of the Serbian National Community in parts of Osijek-Baranja, Vukovar-Srijem County in those parts that were under the transitional administration. In accordance with this Decision, the part-round of the joint council of municipalities had exclusive advisory coordination importance and character, and on the basis of this Decision, the Government and the Joint Council of municipalities made their statutes identical to the Government's decision and, in substance and formally, according to which the Council has legal personality status, established in accordance with the regulations of the Republic of Croatia, and it is a body that aligns the interests of the Serbian National Community in these parts of the Osijek-Baranja and Vukovar-Srijem County. All this worked up to about a year was the only problems encountered in connection with the financing of the joint council of municipalities. Because it wasn't exactly arranged. Therefore, when promoting this chronology of this event and setting up a common council of municipalities that is in accordance with international law, that is exactly what the bill and what stands for, that is, what is included in these coordinations that include other forms of association of national minorities established in accordance with international agreements, that is exactly what concerns international contracts and more recently, the international community has made very precise and clear its decision that the establishment and functioning of the Joint Council is part of the international obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, where the Department of International Affairs of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and since 30 August 2001 has simply stated all this chronology and that this letter is the intention of both the Erdutic Agreement and the basic agreement to make all of it a whole and to oblige the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, unfortunately, there have been various misunderstandings from that part of the amendment and the addition of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, when the Constitution was adopted in parallel with the fact that this was a matter of thinking and the view that it was some new architecture of the Croatian state, that it was about creating a presumption for the creation of a new Serbian province in Croatia, which simply does not correspond to the truth, is not about the fact that it is only one fulfillment of the international obligation of the Republic of Croatia in which the Serbian National Minority is given the right of what has already been achieved, which has worked since '97. the year that has as one form of minority self-government that common council. It is all and above that there is nothing more to change the architecture of the constitutional arrangement of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61989	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is Honorable Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61990	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Vice President Shakespeare. I wish you'd driven away the fears and reserves of HSP when it comes to the dangers that lie in this law, but unfortunately it didn't happen. In fact, it was visible just from the presentation of Mr Horvat's representative, Mr. Horvat, which is actually what he wants to do. I point out once again that the legal personality of a body involving municipalities with the majority Serb population is possible. They will appear at one point as a body that will set certain political conditions for Croatia, which will lead to a single rebellion on a specific territory conditioned by political requirements. That's what Croatia warns about. Representatives of the Serb national minority in Croatia want institutions that will deal with the preservation of language, tradition, culture would not pose a problem in any way. But such institutions in Croatia already have a handful. It is in fact a basis that will have a legal personality rounded up in a territory that includes certain municipalities with the mayors of municipalities who together when they find themselves in one place will probably not discuss the tradition, history and culture of the Serb people in the territory of Croatia but something else that is so dangerous that I do not want to say here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61991	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed Vice-President of House Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61992	So I want to show you the argument again and prove that there is no room for these fears. Because what concerns part of cultural autonomy is regulated by the Law on Languages and Letters of the Language of National Minorities. This is also regulated in the official use of language and letters, etc. But what matters is why there's no concern about what you're saying, because it's in the government's decision to establish a common council of municipalities to indicate who the council members are. Out of municipal councils in which the Serbian National Union has most members, two members are named. From city councils where the Serbian National Community has a majority, the next number of city members is named above 30, etc. Six. From municipal or city councils in which the Serb National Community has a minority, a far smaller number is called. So they're where there's a minority where there's a relative minority, so it's not about some Serbian or Croatian or any other municipalities. It is about municipalities where members of the Serb national minority have a number of council members. Just as members of Slovakia or the Czech or Hungarian minorities have a number of council members in other municipalities and cities where I do not know Hungarians, Czechs, Slovaks where they have an absolute or other minority. The same principle applies to all other national minorities who establish their councils and their coordination there. So nothing changes any architecture, no constitutional legal position of the Republic of Croatia in any sense changes. Because believe me, there is no fear or predicate for some source of any possible future armed or similar rebellion. And what it says in this newspaper, as well as in everyone else, is that they write a variety of mildly spoken nonsense. It's in that paper because I'm at the top of it too. It's a criminal tip. Criminal organizations write the same thing in that paper, right? I don't think I am.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61993	Thank you very much. And another replica of the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61994	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank Vice President Shakespeare for this extraordinary presentation and proof that man knows the matter. At the same time, there are those who do not know things and have ambitions to collect cheap political points on one improvisation on such a serious problem. When I say this, I mean first of all the fact, and I really don't understand how we don't think in the direction that such a capital project called peaceful reintegration, which is crowned with one agreement, we don't use on the international agenda in the affirmative sense, in terms of advocacy of each other's options and other trends, but we use it in a way that it's not appropriate for this Assembly or any policy that the Republic of Croatia is currently going on. I'd just say there's nothing to worry about, so I won't comment on the decisions, the regrets, the warnings that we're going to be making some kind of rebellion or the SAO Krajina. The fact is that in this document that I have in front of me, which is the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia signed by Master Zlatko Mateša, therefore the current Croatian president of that moment, no Serbian or any such, reads in Article 3. The Council shall have legal personality and shall be established in accordance with the regulations of the Republic of Croatia. We're just asking that through these institutions and through this text we honor the government's decision now after 15 years. If that's such a problem, we can pull that thing back. The fact is that the common council of self-government municipalities, minority self-government, is in that space. And it's quite true that a colleague, Vice President Shakespeare, said that they consist of elected councillors after regular local elections. So we want to say with this one finding that the municipality of the Prince's vineyards is also a Serb municipality because it has its representative, the president of the council of the Municipality of Knezev Winegradi in the Assembly of the common council of municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61995	Thank you. And I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met. And tomorrow morning we continue at 9.30 p.m. with the 10th agenda, and this is the report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2009, the applicant of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-03-0.u61996	Proposal for a Council Register Act, Council coordination and representatives of national minorities, first reading. I am voting on the following conclusion: the proposal for a Council Register Act, Council coordination and representatives of national minorities is adopted. Any comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be forwarded to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 73 votes in favour, one abstention and 30 against the proposed conclusion.
