ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55893	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Representatives and Gentlemen Representatives. Here, I warmly welcome you, as always I want this to be a good and constructive debate and to accept the government's proposal, or my proposal, that Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic be confirmed as Minister of Justice. As you all know, Justice Minister Ivan Simonovic was elected to a very responsible duty in the United Nations, and that was his proposal, and this week, I made a decision at the beginning of the week on his resolution, as Mr Shimonovic decided to go to the United Nations, so continue his career in New York. How the Croatian Parliament ends this session these days would certainly not be good if the Croatian government continued its work without the minister of justice, and so today I suggest you confirm Mr Drazen Bošnjakovic. Why do I suggest Mr. Bosnjakovic? The proposal was very simple and easy to come by. I must also say, in a conversation with Ivan Šimonović, because Mr Drazen Bosnjakovic, until now, as State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, really carried a large part of the job, which he had done excellently. But what is absolutely certain to say today is that Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic is committed to the judiciary, that his whole life, working of course, is dedicated in one way or another to the judiciary, that he is certainly one dedicated lawyer in that sense. And that's why I believe the Minister of Justice's duties will be excellent. And I suggest that because of several facts, first of all, Mr. Bosnjakovic, as state secretary, also led a working group, therefore one major project to streamline the network of courts, through the merger of courts of the same kind. So today we're recording a percentage that is greater than 35 when we're talking about the rationalization of courts. So it's pretty sure he's been working on a lot of other projects. I will point out when we talk about shortening the length of court proceedings and strengthening procedural discipline, several strategic procedural laws. Such as the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure, the Law on Administrative Disputes, etc. So, all of this was done by Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic, however, not only worked but he was also the bearer of the job. He also worked hard with a job that rationalized the network of state attorneys, so we now record a decrease of 23%, so all in favor of rationalization, and better efficient doing the job. I will certainly not list everything Drazen Bošnjakovic has done in his life, you have received a résumé, you know him as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, as the president of the Committee, only in the end I will say that I believe that he will do just as well as the secretary of state as he has done a number of jobs for the benefit of the Croatian judiciary, and then finally for the benefit of all of us, the Croatian Government and the Croatian State, I believe that he will continue to work in preserving the independence of the judiciary, in this sense giving firm and unequivocally supportive support to the independence of the Croatian judiciary. DESCRIPTION will certainly work hard to meet the criteria laid down in Chapter 23 or the closure of Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental rights. I am sure that it will be extremely successful, and what I very much believe, and I am sure that it will be one of the pillars of the government in the fight against corruption, that, as it has done so far, it will make a huge contribution, and that we will continue this job successfully. So, especially what I expect as Prime Minister, I believe from today if there is a vote today by Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic is to bring all the strength to the great work that is ahead of us, which we will successfully end believe by the end of this year, which is the closure of Chapter 23, and I believe that it will have extraordinary successes and that we will do this job as planned. So, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, I suggest on behalf of the Government that you confirm Drazen Bosnjakovic as Minister of Justice in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55894	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club HSU, Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55895	I thank Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister with ministers, colleagues and colleagues. This is kind of a situation where we say goodbye to the current Justice Minister Dr. Mr. Drazen Bošnjakovic's proposal is being made by Shimonovic. I must say that from the perspective of the opposition club, and also from the perspective of the National Committee, we believe that in the mandate in which Dr. Simonović was doing this job, a shift has been made for us most important in our opinion, which is the issue of judicial reform, i.e. the question of Chapter 23. - Justice and fundamental rights. Regardless of many action plans and strategies and various judicial-related projects, we believe at the HNS and HSU club that the absolutely most significant move in judicial reform was to vote at the end of last year on a very specific or 'let's say in a more concrete way than ever before, they define the criteria for the appointment of new judges and state lawyers who enter the profession and for the advancement in the profession of those who are already judges or state lawyers but have not reached a peak in their career, so they have room for advancement. In this area, there is an even more clear need for us to define the criteria for progress more accurately and more clearly, so that they do not depend on the arbitration assessment of anyone and on the feeling or impression of anyone, but on the quality of people who are candidates for promotion or candidates for professions and who showed this objective assessment at the study, on the judicial exam, on tests that take place at the initial stay of the state judicial school or schooling, or on additional training during their work on judicial and state attorney functions and duties. So let's say one metric time criterion in one profession which is the cornerstone of the functioning of the state in general and absolutely all institutions. As is most important, it is certainly the most difficult chapter and chapter in which reforms are opposed to the most intense resistances. Regardless of what it is to say to the other side in our political relations, it is our opinion that our colleague Bosnjakovic, our former counterpart Bosnjakovic and his work in the Assembly and his work on these jobs as state secretary in collaboration with former Minister Šimonović, must have gained a lot of experience and certainly been able to assess to what extent, by accepting this job, the work that is crucial and whose results will be crucial to the conclusion of the negotiations. Justice and fundamental rights is the only area in which our criteria, us here in Croatia and us here in the Parliament, must and will be higher and stricter than the criteria of the European Commission and the European Council. Because when it comes to justice, it's something without which we can't actually start a real reform almost in any other area. It is the basis on which we will continue to build and that is why in this chapter we will not only cooperate as Parliament, we will cooperate and we must work together as a position and opposition on this subject, and we in the Croatian Parliament have absolute opportunities and instruments, to stand firm in the position not to close this chapter because of our attitude and our assessment, we do not close until we have actually started to implement and clearly and precisely in the laws we have not defined the firm, objective criteria for selecting and progressing judges. For this we will have to amend the existing law, we will have to change a number of other laws, given that we have received in the chapter of the judiciary and the fundamental rights of 21 criteria that can somehow be broken down into almost 50 concrete practical tasks. Since our deadlines are short on a frameworkhodogram, so all we want to change legislation, we should change September, including September this year, possibly something small in October but September would be desirable because October or October 1st is a deadline for the delivery of data by Croatians for the needs of the European Commission. Therefore, the tasks are large, the deadlines are short. Mr. Bošnjakovic, you have our support in this business that you have decided to accept, but please understand how important this job is, how difficult it will be for you, because there will be enormous pressures not to do the job that needs to be done or at least not to do it the way it should be done. I suppose in your work so far, you've been able to see it and evaluate it. But at the same time when you accept such a truly sensitive job that needs to be done in a short time, in our opinion you are given a huge chance of what I think is somehow the goal or ambition of every man who accepts public work, which is that you are in fact changing something and in fact contributing positively to the institutional construction of this country. So we put it on your soul. We hope you will be successful in your work and we will support you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55896	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55897	Your Honor, Mr. President. Madam Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament, former Minister. It is clear that Mr. Bosnjakovic will become the future justice minister, the opposition will vote for or against. But then a normal question arises what will be done at the head of one of the most demanding ministries. Mr. Shimonovic can say that he opened up one of the most important areas, the one about the judiciary, he should surely admit it, but there is a lot of work to be done in this country for sure in front of Mr. Bošnjakovic and the one he will also close down, and he remains open from some of the earlier and also in the '90s. I'll think of it this way, for example. The tourism land law. Why do I mention that law? Because the holder of the law was precisely Mr. Bosnjakovic and now I am publicly asking the question when Croatian tycoons, foreigners, will start paying for the use of hundreds of thousands of hectares of state land. Mr. Bosnjakovic, I said, defended that law in the Parliament, there's nothing against that law. I suppose during this year, there will be nothing from that law either, or perhaps over the next few years if there is no change in power. This also tells me about a high degree of corruption in Croatian politics. Of course we appreciate ourselves not to destroy these hotels, but how is it possible that "an orphan" for one terrace, for one m2 pays 10 or 15 euros a month, and our tycoons for hundreds of hectares so-called. tourism land doesn't pay anyone any kunas. But come on, let's let it go now, we won't talk about it anymore. But I'm curious, for example, what the future minister will do under the new Constitution when it comes to the word. about reviewing the conversion, whether it's going to be any of that. I simply doubt it, or I suppose it will remain in force, that eternal dictatorship that will follow us "whom, yamio, yamio". As I also assume that the property of those who did this will not be touched. What's it gonna be, for example? With destruction, for example. The property of Croatian citizens, Serbian nationalities outside those war-related areas, will we return to our legal structure if I do not cheat on Article 190. The mandatory relationship law that was there in '96. years of consciously deleted so as not to damage those whose property during that period in the early 1990s died or was destroyed or destroyed outside the war of the affected areas. Will we gentlemen in this country have more cases like the Varivod case when people sued the state for killing fathers, mothers? All of this happened two, three and several months after the establishment of the legal order in the previously occupied area, but it turns out that because of these claims, people have to pay a litigious cost to the Croatian judiciary in height, if I'm not mistaken, 54 or 64 thousand kuna. Are we going to tolerate these ballet clauses, for example? our business banks which tie the same to Swiss people who are simply in an amoral way at the moment... So I speak the same way Mrs. Pusic spoke and spoke to the prime minister, Mr. Djakic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Shimonovic, former minister or still today's minister still, has done much for sure in the area. That's what Mrs. Pusic was talking about before me. I congratulate him on going to New York, let him, however, make that very clear for Croatia. The situation in the neighborhood is normalized, the problem is, but it may well be some police job that some criminals from Serbia are walking to Croatia and vice versa, which they may have found here the refuge and murderers of Prime Minister Djindjic, and that may be said to be more police than judicial work, but that should also be discussed. All in all, Mr. Bosnjakovic shouldn't be bored. There can also be mentioned the question of the succession of how we're going to go through this, or we're going through it as well as the arbitration agreement. On the other hand, Mr. Bosnjakovic respects what is in HDZ. Okay, well, maybe that's one reason why we shouldn't support this proposal... Not to support this proposal, but I am asking myself who would accept 6 months, 8 months or 12 months until the election of this function that Mr. Bosnjakovic accepts today. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I don't know, it would probably be someone, but it would definitely take them 6, 10, 12 months to get into business and function, as I called it, one of the most demanding ministries. That is why I personally believe that when the future Justice Minister was proposed that an individual who knows the functioning of a system was proposed, within clear, such as the Ministry of Justice. All in all, I also don't think that all the work in this country has been done by opening that 23rd chapter. The Croatian Minister of Justice, regardless of what we choose today in 2010, has much to do with the work that has remained since the early 1990s. I want Mr. Bošnjakovic to accept the public as Mr. Shimonovic has accepted. I know that the public certainly won't save it, it hasn't saved it in the last few months, it's all been cut out when it comes to Mr. Bošnjakovic and the ownership stakes in some company. But what I can say for Mr. Bošnjakovic is quite frankly that his communication with this House and whether with this House or with this House was maximum correct and should be highlighted, probably because before he became a secretary of state he was in the benches of this House. Then what will certainly be the Croatian public at the time ahead of us, how will the ministry be placed, for example, in the case of Glavas, but also in the fight against corruption, and most certainly it happened, but there is still nothing I expect at the time of the conversion or privatisation. For the end, I clearly wish Mr. Bosnjakovic much luck. We will vote as clearly as the opposition will vote. However, I think one far more important issue at this point is who will be sitting at the head of the Justice Department, whether this government can succeed. Whether this government can pull the country out of crisis, and I'm afraid it just can't because it doesn't have that actual electoral legitimacy. The government finally says Mr. Djakic and all of you who are throwing that in the next six months it will be even harder, that therefore it is necessary to gather HDZ, the SDP, the others said. Good morning, folks. I can scream. I've been saying this since 2008 that the bottom can be expected somewhere around Wazma, but no gathering at this point without gathering around the people can help this country and it's simply a gathering after some premature or not knowing what I'm going to call them elections. Because I agree with the Prime Minister's statement that it's time for us to gather together so that we don't sink into an even deeper abyss, even though it's not said who brought us to this abyss. But if we want to avoid it, we must once again gather around the people as soon as possible in some extraordinary elections. For the end, I wish Mr. Bosnjakovic good luck. I wish his associates good luck. I also wanted the success of the government, I always wanted it, I always wanted it, I always emphasized it. And the fact that the government may not have been very successful about it at some other time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55898	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55899	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Prime Minister, the Honorable Vice President. Well, here comes Article 209. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, where dear colleague Cain does not speak in his performance about the subject that is ahead of us, which is the appointment of a new minister but constantly washing his mouth with my last name, which I have not given him a word he certainly wants to put on me and I think that in the future we should warn him to stick to... The Rules of Procedure and the subject that lies ahead. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe he will support the new minister and he will be fine, but I would ask him to stop washing his mouth with my last name.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55900	Thank you. Let's be more tolerant today. We still choose the Minister of Justice. The more support that's good, you know, anyway, like this... Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55901	Mr. President, just here's two, three information. In fact, for one reason, I made a thorough report as Mr. Cain, of course, is a bit of a disaster in the qualification of the government, so he mentioned, among other things, the Law on Tourist Land, certainly speaking about corrupt politicians, etc. Mr. Cain, I don't know who you mean. So, and speaking of the law, there's nothing. Well, sir, there is an MP. On Thursday, at the cabinet session, we will pass the Law on Tourist Land and send it to the Croatian Assembly, so that I am an alcoholic, as I am not, unfortunately I would say Damir Cain into nothing, is this time quite certain. As for the question of who would be at this time, so you listed a few months before the elections would be regular, before the election accepted the office of the justice minister. I want to answer that question because obviously Mr. Cain doesn't know that. So, first of all, the one who knows, the one who can, the one who wants and the one who is brave to deal with all the problems that are ahead of us, which is Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here, that's the answer to that question. And just one brief observation about something that can be very dangerous. So, Mr. Cain says he's going to oversee how the Justice Department is going to manifest itself and then the future minister, and how it's going to be put in the Glavas case. I want you here. I'm afraid I have to say and teach. This will not be obvious or set up by the Ministry of Justice, but by the court. The court will decide in this matter, and the ministry will neither be appointed nor decided. And that is why I said in the opening statement that I am sure that Mr. Bosnjakovic will strongly support the independence of the Croatian judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55902	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55903	So God forbid Croatian courts finally become autonomous, but when it comes to the tourism code or the tourism land law. So far, there has been nothing from that code, God forbid it comes to the agenda even if it is an extraordinary session of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. But what's certain, Madam President, is that our tycoons are not this year, and I'm afraid neither of these new laws will pay the state or the state budget of any kuna. Therefore, they had no law at the end of the tycoons were well written, and the people were bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55904	Well, it's more of a debate not a correction to an incorrect quote, but let's move on. On behalf of the SDP club, Vice-President Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55905	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club estimates that the government has failed to make a new turn, a new direction, in the last more than 365 days led by the new prime minister in the past year. There are no real effects left. Essential reforms have not been implemented that would mean a better life for the citizens, for the economy. In short, there is no halted crisis. While others are already swimming, we are still sinking, unfortunately, deeper and deeper. The workers remain unprotected, delivered to the mercy of the employers. In all this, and even through the resolution ministry refuses to protect workers, the government rejects our proposal to introduce a special incrimination into criminal law that would protect workers, which would protect their fair pay. And not only that, but the amendments to the Labour Act remain under the government's project and that last protection, the last dam against employers' bitterness incorporated through collective agreements. In addition, through the resolution ministry, despite all assessing that the previous minister was capable of doing so, the government has stalled a fundamental reform of criminal legislation that would therefore protect work on the one hand, and on the other hand introduces a modern economic incrimination by which the first and the responsibility of criminal management structures would be called upon. So as the most important criminal act, it is essentially the most important anti-corruption measure. So we at the SDP club know Mr. Bošnjakovic's work, we hold him well-knowledge of opportunities, and we better say still a problem in the judiciary, but we also know that the government has stopped these reforms, which primarily refer to criminal legislation, which would mean a better life, a better, fairer life for the citizens first and foremost. So all in all, this better life that has been promised, the more righteous life has not been achieved, and we do not think that those who have created these problems can do it. The SDP club therefore maintains that Croatia does not need reconstruction, but construction of a new government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55906	We have a few corrections. She's the first Mrs. Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55907	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam President. I want to correct several incorrect allegations that she has made, all together, one large incorrect quote from Mrs. Anticevic. The government refuses to protect workers, the government has stalled systematic reform of criminal legislation as the most important anti-corruption measures. If any government has proven itself in the fight against corruption, then this is exactly the government headed by Mrs. Kosor. I think you just said something that's absolutely untrue. The government refuses to protect the worker. This government is trying very hard and everything to protect the worker, and that's not true what you said about the collective contract. We know what he wants to change in the new Labour Act, and that's where we'll see it in further negotiations with workers and trade unions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55908	Thank you. Correction Mr. Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55909	Thank you very much. A colleague, not sticking to the topic and agenda points, still succeeded in a dozen incorrect allegations. I'll do as much time as I can. She said this government didn't stop the crisis and others came out of the crisis, and we didn't. Comrade Ingrid, take a look at the State Statistics Service, if you believe him. The real salary in Croatia is higher than in the region, higher than in seven EU members. The deficit budget is smaller than in most European Union countries, and smaller than in the region. The total debt ratio towards GDP is lower than in all countries of the region and less than in most European Union countries. I know you're in pain with those data, your lies don't hurt us, but you'll still have to base your failure on our exact data in the next election.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55910	Correction, Mr. Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55911	Mr. President, Madam President. My colleague Ingrid says the government has stopped reforms. Not that it's not true, it's another SDP destruction of lies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55912	Mr. Josip Djakic, the correction too.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55913	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister. Namely, it is an incorrect quote from counterpart Anticevic that said the government had stopped projects proposed by former Minister Simonovic. It's absolutely incorrect, it's actually a lie that's been told in this assembly. On the contrary, the government brought along with Minister Shimonovic all the legal proposals that we have adopted and brought in order to prevent as many corrupt acts as possible. And today are the investigations of those who have brought the companies into difficult positions, and be not anxious, and the order of those of your ranks will come.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55914	Thank you. Mrs. Sumrak, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55915	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Well, nothing strange about Mrs. Anticevic, it is so much the folklore of hers that she is flaunting different topics, she is pushing them, but fortunately the World Bank and the IMF have also been positively manifested with the work of this government, equally about the president, about the entire government, and it probably also bothers Mrs. Anticevic very much that the anti-corruption programme has been launched, because of course they are just as afraid. It's easy to hide behind the union. It's easy to hide behind other people's trouble. This government can do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55916	Thank you. And we have one application for an individual hearing. Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55917	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Today we are discussing, talking about showing confidence to the new Minister of Justice, so this is actually an opportunity to speak a few words about what the fundamental problems of the judiciary are today. So one, one of the main problems is certainly its efficiency, but other than the situation in the judiciary, it has a strong impact on economic progress. And precisely the situation in the judiciary, the efficiency of the judiciary has a major impact on Croatia's position when it comes to the position of an interesting country or an uninteresting country for foreign investment for investors. The situation in the judiciary, of course, also affects the business of the entire banking sector as well, ultimately influences its efficiency and the level of interest rates. Of course this should be changed, that it should make the judiciary as effective as possible so that the conditions of business resulting from the efficiency of the judiciary in Croatia are as good as possible. But what has marked Croatian politics in recent months is the criminalisation of business and political decisions that took place through the anti-corruption process. This criminalisation almost completely halted economic flows, especially in that state sector, state-owned companies, and companies owned by units of local self-government. Unfortunately, no one today dares to make a business decision and that is one of the reasons why gross social product in Croatia does not grow unlike other countries in an environment that slowly emerges from recession. In fact, through such a process as may have happened and the fact that at this moment the most influential political person in Croatia is not the President of the Republic, not the Prime Minister, but the chief state attorney through this criminalisation of business and political decisions. That is why it will be one of the most important tasks, the duties of the new justice minister to make the judiciary effective, free it from this burden so that the economic flows in Croatia will speed up and that the judiciary will make its full contribution to the development of the economy and not any obstacles to the development of the economy at the moment. The Croatian party's position on trust with the new minister will also be through the answers to these questions and assessments of this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55918	Thank you. And final Mrs. Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55919	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank all who debated, once again in my name, because I suggested it. But certainly on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on behalf of all coalition partners, because it is a decision made and in conversation with all coalition partners who supported Mr. Bošnjakovic so I propose to the Croatian Parliament to confirm Drazen Bošnjakovic to confirm that he is the minister of justice in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. At the very end, of course, I must say a sentence of two on the claim by a representative who spoke on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia, about the government stopping reforms in the judiciary. This statement was primarily a terrible insult to Mr. Ivan Šimonović, Minister of Justice in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who, you know, was independent in the government, and this statement actually means that he agreed to pressures and halt judicial reform and all processes, and that he actually agreed, I don't know for what reasons, to remain in such a government anyway. So, it's really an insult to Ivan Šimonović, of course, about the government's insult, we're used to it, and as you can see, we're handling it. But I must say, of course, it's a lie, and because of the fact that the government was implementing it. Because Ivan Šimonović and the Ministry of Justice are not an island in the government, but that the government has implemented all the reforms, that the government has made all the plans, and not only has it brought an action plan to fight corruption, for example, but has implemented it, but the government has also made the commitment and action plans for each public enterprise, which, on the basis of this action plan, implements the fight against corruption and a number of other affairs, so this job has been done by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so we ladies and gentlemen have opened Chapter 23. Because if the government had stopped those processes then Chapter 23 wouldn't have been open. And what is, of course, the most terrible statement does not harm the government, such a statement damages the interests of the Republic of Croatia, national interests. And that's what the SDP should know.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55920	Thank you very much. I am closing the debate and I am asking the clubs, and we will vote at 12 o'clock on the proposed Minister Drazen Bošnjaković, so I ask the clubs to gather representatives at 12 o'clock in the assembly. Thank you very much to all of you, the Prime Ministers and everyone else who participated. I would like to inform you that the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Petar Selem, has scheduled a session of the Education, Science and Culture Committee today at 13:30 at the Bana Jelačić Center. And secondly, the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations will present today in the Croatian Parliament the Slovak documentary Osadena, which is shown at this year's Zagreb Dox festival, which in a funny way popularises membership in the European Union. The film will be screened at 13:30 in the hall "Josipa Šokčevića" with translation into Croatian, it is small town hall. The National Committee once again invites you all, and I invite you and if you can come watch this, the film has already been shown partly on our television but with the inserts. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, we are returning as we have announced at the item on the agenda of the proposal to show confidence to Drazen Bosnjakovic for acting as Minister of Justice. The debate is closed. I would like to stress that, on the basis of Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have been expressed confidence if most of the MPs in the Assembly voted for the proposal. So at least 77. Please engage to determine the quorum. The result? 97. So we can approach the vote. I am voting on the decision to show confidence to Drazen Bosnjakovic for acting as justice minister. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most of the votes are 80 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 21 against the expressed confidence of Justice Minister Drazen Bosnakovic. In accordance with Article 108 of the Treaty on the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and Article 7. The law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be sworn in by the new minister. After reading the text of the oath, I will call upon a new member of the government who will swear by standing up and saying the word "I swear." The text of the oath reads: I swear that I will knowingly and honorably act as a member of the Government, respect the Constitution, the laws and the legal order, and advocate all progress made by the Republic of Croatia. Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55922	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55923	Congratulations to the new Minister of Justice, Mr Drazen Bošnjaković, and I want a lot of success in his work, something similar to what he has done so far. Thank you. Well, now we're moving on to the session. And we move to - Annual Financial Reports of the HBOR for 2009, Carrier: Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development Croatia's Bank for Reconstruction and Development submitted its Report on the basis of Article 22. Law on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and the Committee on the Economy. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr. Anton Kovacev, president of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55925	Your Honor, Mr. President, thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much. I will try to be brief in the introduction and later I am available for any clarification or further explanation of the Croatian Bank Report for Reconstruction and Development for 2009. First of all, I would like to emphasise that the financial reports and the business audit carried out by the independent audit company Deloit and expressed a positive opinion without prejudice to the financial reports of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2009. The same annual report was confirmed by the Croatian Government on 17 June, the Economic Committee on 16 June, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction on 17 June, and the Basic Committee on Finance and the State Budget on 30 June. In the 2009 reporting year, the balance sheet amount, i.e. at the end of the reporting year, was 20 billion and 800 million kuna, and the increase was 11% compared to the previous year 2008. At the end of 2009, capital amounted to €6 billion 700 million, an increase of 5% compared to the previous year. Approved loans amounted to 6 billion kunas 200 million. And what is most significant is the amount of credit granted has been allocated in a thousand 202 individual projects. The approval structure was 14% for the economy, considered a large economy, 16% for small and medium-sized enterprises, 2% for infrastructure and even 68% for the promotion of exports, i.e. credit promotion programmes for exports, i.e. Croatian exporters. We think it's a significant piece of information because if anyone in this global economic crisis is hit by exporters. We sought through all our programmes, especially those exclusively intended for exporters to support exporters in particular, so I say that 68% of the total credit programmes in 2009 were approved by exporters is significant. A total of 65 million kuna guarantees have been issued and they mainly refer to export bank guarantees, the same support for Croatian exports. As far as the mandate is concerned, our overall activity, or business, was 2 billion and 500 million. So we had a thousand 457 approvals. Therefore, these mandates mainly relate to export insurance which the HBOR is working on behalf of and on behalf of the State. We also paid 10 compensations in total of 2 million and 700 thousand kuna. And what's most important is we haven't touched the Guarantee Fund, so all the damages paid, they're paid out of insurance income. Therefore, the total business of HBOR when our basic activities were summed up, hence credit activity, guarantees and transactions issued on behalf of and on behalf of the account were 8 billion 700 million kuna. If we look at the overall activity since the HBOR draft in '92. By the end of 2009, the total business of HBOR amounted to EUR 79 billion, 800 million. Total revenues in 2009 were 944 million kuna, total expenditures of 778 million kuna, and profit shown at the end of 2009 was 166 million kuna. I'll also briefly state the structure of our credit portfolio. In A, 91% of our total plasma, B was classified as about 9% and C. You know well that at the end of 2008, we had problems with the issue of bonds, or the market not only in Europe, but in the whole world, it is a concern, and then we announced that we might have a significant decrease in credit activity in 2009 we announced somewhere between 25 and 30% decreases. Now, fortunately, that didn't come true, we had data or a reduction in credit activity by about 5% compared to the previous year. This was primarily ensured by good co-operation with international financial institutions, so we obtained funds from the Bank of Germany for the reconstruction and development of 45m euros, the Central Bank of the Council of Europe 50m euros, for small and medium-sized enterprises. From the EIB European Investment Bank 250m euros, for small and medium-sized enterprises and projects in large enterprises. From the IBRD, so the World Bank 100 million euros. And what's most important is that we managed to get funds from international financial institutions under the same conditions as we had before the global economic and financial crisis. And thus we ensured that interest rates were kept at the level that we had previously, so in the range of 2 to 6%, which I believe is extremely important for the Croatian economy, i.e. Croatian businessmen. In 2009, already at the beginning of the year, we brought in 4 new programmes that were adapted to the needs of the Croatian economy and the reduction of the impact of the global economic crisis. The first programme was to lend production, so crediting the supply of craftsmanship to producers, because we felt that in those most threatened by the crisis. Next, the credit programme for the financing of permanent trade funds for 5 years with a year’s start, thanks to the understanding of colleagues from the European Investment Bank, since initially all 250 million euros were intended for investment or investment in fixed assets. However, we have managed to convince our EIB colleagues that the requirements and investment needs of this crisis are not expressed and are not sufficient in view of the resources available. And in agreement with the EIB, we re-scheduled half of these contracts for permanent crafts. Then we introduced a new liquidity credit programme, a special programme to boost exports with the World Bank. The new IPARD programme, as well as previous pre-accession funds, also wants to be used as much as possible by the IPARD funds. We have established a specific lending programme for all those who will apply for the use of this pre-accession fund. HANFA granted approval for the establishment of the Croatian Credit Insurance, hence the new company founded by HBOR together with colleagues from Austria, the OkB, where HBOR, or where HBOR has 51% of the ownership of that newly founded company, and colleagues from Austria, respectively, will have 49%. So, this new company was founded because of compliance with the acquis of the European Union, because part of the insurance business that we have provided in HBOR so far is export insurance, so to speak. the market risk was to be allocated to a specific company which would operate on a market basis. Here is already the first insurance policy issued on July 1st, and we hope that this newly founded society will find its place and give additional support to Croatian exporters. In the end, I would just like to say that the annual EAPB Assembly, the Association of Development Banks of Europe, was held in April where the HBOR is the only member outside the European Union, and in September, a traditional 8th international conference on the promotion of exports organised every year by HBOR was held. I won't talk much about 2010, but just a few basic notices, what we did in the first six months of this year. We have recovered funds from international financial institutions, from the CEB 50 million euros, from the EIB 250 million euros and an additional 34 million from... 50m euros, so enough funds to meet all needs of the Croatian economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And one significant data, so in the first 5 months of this year the total HBOR credit activity was over 4 billion kuna, 782 individual loans were granted, that is 56% of our credit activity from last year, so the same period of 5 months last year. This is not only significant as a good indication of HBOR's business in this year, but also of economic recovery and investment not only in the field of craft but also in investment and in the underlying assets. Here, I wouldn't be too long. Once again, I stress that we are at our disposal for all questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55926	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs from the board's meeting want to take a word? No, I don't. Yeah. The Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55927	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear President of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Finance and State Budget Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the annual financial report of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development at the 57th session held on 30 June 2010. Following the introduction of the President of the Administration of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the report was discussed, and the most important views were such that the report in question was praised and full support was given to the work of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development due to its business policy which adapts to the needs of the economy. This confirms the active involvement of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the implementation of measures for economic recovery and development adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. However, it was also warned that the HBOR should further focus its business policy on lending through business banks, reducing or avoiding direct lending due to increased risk. Particular attention should also be paid to the effective collection of direct loans. After the discussion was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget decided to unanimously propose to the Croatian Assembly a decision to confirm the Annual Financial Report of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55928	Thank you very much. The Development Committee? No, I don't. Agriculture? The economy? There's no interest. Then we're going to a club debate. On behalf of the club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, distinguished counterpart Goran Maric. Here you go, colleague Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55929	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. President-in-Office of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. By observing the period from 1992 to the end of 2009, we can see that a large share of credit activity in the Croatian economy has dropped the entire period at the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The very information that during that period was granted a loan of 26 thousand, that cca 49 billion kuna was approved, that guarantees were issued at 17 billion,... Jobs 13 and a half billion and a total of 41 thousand 117 approvals and slightly less than 80 billion then all points to an extremely extensive and important job done by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development since '92. until the end of 2009. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is important to stress that she cared about the most of those segments, those branches of the economy for which Croatian commercial banks did not show great interest. She also took care of the regional even development of the Republic of Croatia, which is also not taken care of by commercial banks. Their contribution is therefore great, but it also cared about the promotion of exports, the promotion of tourism activity, and we know that commercial banks often do not encourage these branches, and sometimes they do not approve of credit payments for certain economic activities. In all approved loans since '92. until 2009. 47% were for export incentives, 30% for economic incentives, and 13% for small and medium enterprises. In 2009, there was a change in these data, mainly due to an even more pronounced need to encourage small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, as well as exports. So in 2009, out of all the total, total credit arrangements, 68% were in the direction of promotion of exports, and 16% were small and medium enterprises. In 2009, the activity of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development was also at an enviable level. A total of just over 6 billion kunas were granted to 1202 loans. It is very important that it is reduced, very few decreases in total placement by 4%, although a significantly higher decrease in total credit placement was planned, but the number of users was increased. This was very important for maintaining entrepreneurship and developing small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia. In 2009, HBOR performed on the capital market and also owed to the European Investment Bank and the German Development Bank and the World Bank, and most of the European Investment Bank 250m euros. He also introduced new programmes, trade funding programmes, and this was one of the most important programmes since there was an increase in in liquidity in the economy with the coming of the global economic crisis. According to all the programmes, 4,7 billion and 77% of total appropriations and credit ratings were granted in total. It is an important finding to see that at the right time credit activity was directed where it was most needed. What is really the problem in all economies when the recession and economic crisis are affected, which is why Croatia was in a particularly undesirable situation at the time. Around the world, there has been a decrease in passive interest rates in all recession countries, an increase in commercial banks' credit activity and a significant reduction in interest rates on credit ratings. Unfortunately, a reverse case occurred in Croatia. There has been a strong increase in deposit interest rates, so-called interest rates. Passive interest rates, there was a decrease in credit activity, the level of commercial banks' credit activity decreased and there were even increases and such high interest rates on credit ratings. And it makes it even more difficult for all this situation to develop market relations in the Croatian economy. In such conditions, the main burden has fallen on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and under such conditions the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has responded to these challenging times and has actually been a key step in supporting the Croatian economy in these break-in times. Many Croatian companies think they can be big only if they are big in Croatia and if they dominate Croatia. That's the wrong opinion. No company in the world is strong, powerful and large just because it is dominant in its own country. One Phillips, one Nokia if they weren't dominant in other countries, might never have heard of them outside the Netherlands, Germany or Finland and stayed. A dominant monopoly position in its homeland does not mean that it is both good for the economy and for the company. Power companies only become if they expand their jobs outside their home country. And what is most important is that we are once again at a particularly difficult moment where the role of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development was also great, because this dominant position if achieved in production is not so problematic. Unfortunately in production and there are no dominant positions, but if they appear in service activities and in trade, then it is something that even more burdens the domestic economy. In addition to these indicators which, with increased credit activity, have lower interest rates, should also be affected by the development of market relations and the strengthening of competition because it will not be effective without this measure. And then the measures of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development would be more effective. Here, there is so much positive that should be highlighted and should always be highlighted when something is positive, but there are always unwanted phenomena. They are side effects to be warned, which should be observed in time and against which certain measures should be taken. The example is not alarming, but it is symptomatic and should be seen and interest incomes increased at 0.7%, and interest expenditures grew at twice the rate of 1.5%. It is something that is tolerable in this situation, but we must bear in mind when further activities of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I also said on behalf of the board that I had drawn attention to the direct placements of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and increased risk levels. Out of 28% of the total portfolio of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development or 6.9 billion kuna waste on direct payments. They are also monitored by credit programmes and lending directorates. Many measures have been taken, as can be seen in the risk reduction report and from customer analysis, additional analysis and financial reports, training and training of employees. But the risk can only be reduced by the risk of charge with a better guarantee and a safer choreteller. There's more work to be done on. And the truth is there are those who do not return orderly loans and get into difficulties, but also bring the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development into trouble. It is set up, i.e. the need for urgent intervention in this regard to the collection of all claims, especially those known to have been faced with huge problems and before which either bankruptcy is already open or ahead of which bankruptcy is expected. Giving impulses to those who are breathing out, and their fate is known in advance to prolong agony, increase risk, and no contribution to the economy and entrepreneurship. It was known how many would end up. It is therefore necessary in time for the state to collect its claims, to collect claims from state institutions, not to increase them. I have a review of the 10 biggest direct debtors on 31 December 2009, where total claims have crossed a hundred million kunas. It is, however, a signal that there is something urgent to be done towards these committees, because for some they are already so clear that they went bankrupt, for some last night information appeared on the news and teletext that they were arrested, brought in for an informative conversation. Such companies cannot be expected to repay loans, according to such companies all possible measures should be taken to collect and protect the interests of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I'd also like to warn you about the purpose of using the loan. If one company is granted a credit rating, a credit for the promotion of exports, and he did not use that part of the credit for the promotion of exports, it is not rational to automatically approve such funds not to return them, but to use them as crafts and they are also, such companies in a very bad situation, it only increases the risk and leads to an unfavourable position for the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In particular, attention should be paid to guarantees. A pawned second, third, fourth, fifth row where someone already has... ownership, this has a significant impact on the increase in risk and the possibility of payment of claims. [[You don't understand.]] Here are all the comments, recommendations and commendations and instructions that should be done in the future, the HDZ Club supports the Croatian Bank's 2009 renewal and development report and will vote for its acceptance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55930	Thank you very much. I'm handing over a word to an esteemed colleague, Davor Bernardic, who will speak on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55931	Good afternoon. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Before us, the 2009 HABOR Report, a year which for Croatian terms and world terms was a crisis, marked by the decline in industrial production, the decline in trade, the fall in gross social product, and what is most important for Croatia, but what saddens us is the inadequate reaction of the Government. HABOR was founded by the example of German KFE back in '92. years,... is a financial institution and specializes in the issue of long-term loans encourage exports, encourage economies and encourage all that Croatia does, i.e. which can make gross social product grow. [[You don't understand.]] However, when we talk about this, it should also be said that the Croatian government has failed to fulfil its legal obligations to HABOR and has paid up to 7 billion share capital from the state budget. The proposal was proposed by the SDP representative, as one of the anti-recession measures that would strengthen credit activity, which would release some of the funds needed to lend exporters, for lending to the economy in 2009. However, the truth works and should say that HABOR's policy in the last 15, or 17 years I will not say unchanged, but by modelling some international financial institutions our multiplier when compared, means a multiplier that compares the activity and core capital is incomparably smaller with similar banks in Europe, and that should be said. That should be said publicly because it's a lack of two things. The HABOR administration itself, which did not ensure that in 15 or 17 years, the multiplier would be larger. And economic policies, and above all, the government's economic policy, which is not strategic and as such, as strategic and with particulars in mild terms, is said to have no characteristics of economic policy. Now why am I saying this and why does it matter? Because in a crisis, it is viewed by one institution like HABOR and the state's willingness to react when it comes to helping medium and small entrepreneurs, all exporters, and if in the year of the crisis, instead of growing, it falls with a 5% credit rating, then the fact is that we are in trouble. I will remind you that the SDP proposed 26 anti-recession measures, a whole series of laws, even in 2009, when it was time, when the European Commission did so, when it was both done by the United States and when it was possible to preserve some jobs. In a year and a few days, 100,000 jobs have been lost, the job is harder to reopen than to save and when you are late with the reaction and when you have the guarantee fund after a year and a half from the moment Europe and when the world has responded to the crisis, then it is clear that this guarantee fund, and this part that HABOR has taken over, cannot liven up to itself. And he didn't come back to life. And it's absurd that in that same year of 2009, the long-term feature of business, what HABOR's business should be to finance long-term projects, to finance exports, to convert and open new lending programmes, and I primarily mean the liquidity lending programme, so it never was. HABOR has never credited liquidity, no such institution in the world, and I guess we're unique by that, I don't know what the indicators in these crisis years are now, but the fact is that 13 loans are granted for liquidity in the amount of 240 million kuna. It's big money, and we'd like to know what the criteria were for granting liquidity loans. We'd like to know, that's not written in this report. And why the liquidity? Because internal indifference in the state, unsettled obligations over 27 billion kuna, because there is no ability, ways and will to solve this problem systematically, and when over 20 months of indifference is growing then it is no longer a case, then it is no longer a wish, then it is no longer a hihr, then it is a serious problem that needs to be solved and not looked at, we will solve tomorrow, here we have solutions, nothing worries, everything is ready, because it is not a solution to responsible fiscal policy. It is the cancer of the wound that has eaten in the last year of the Croatian economy and therefore the Croatian economy continues to fall in this year. The fall will not be drastic but what was in the first wave last year, however, the fact is what is true and the fact that we from recession are entering economic depression, scratching at the bottom with a small fall. These are the expectations for the period by the end of the year, and for next year we'll also be here somewhere. Unsettled obligations, it is something that the SDP and coalition partners tried to resolve over three bill proposals, elegantly to the state, i.e. public companies in state-owned property are undermining their obligation not to order over what can be paid in order for this investment trend to pump up money for orders to stop to have a stable economy, after all, to make the economy work, what unfortunately happened was not an adequate reaction and that is why 40,000 legal persons are insolvent and through them are endangered jobs over 90,000 people in this country at this point and it is a matter of time when one of them will tell tomorrow that they are no longer working. This lack of tax consolidation security, the lack of a tax system which last year marked the growth of taxes that exist in the Croatian Tax System and the introduction of some new taxes, I will remind the cost of mobile telephony, which only has Serbia enough to talk about, is an increase in value added tax, which is not pumped into development and structural reform but in retaining the liquidity of the general government's budget, and this is also a set of parafiscal taxes that have additionally burdened both the economy and citizens. In such an environment and the environment of financial instability, and also in an environment where neighbouring countries in this Balkan peninsula are also experiencing a financial crisis, a debt crisis because they have spent beyond their means, living beyond their capabilities, and I fear that Croatia is on this path, I will not say on a similar path because I believe that we can find ways to, in addition to smart decisions, with quick laws, with interventions, with sound thinking, with consensus on important issues and with what is not called politics, we can get out of a deep structural crisis. However, it should also be noted in this environment that our credit risk, the risk of investment, is ultimately a risk that leads to a higher capital price at this point by 50% higher than last year. This is measured through the front between Germany and Croatia bonds, by the difference in yield, and it depends on which bond issued now between 395 and 409... which is your addition to the elemental interest rate of 3.5 and 4%. And you see this supplement of 3.5% and 4% paid only to Croatian businessmen, paid only to Croatian citizens on that liquidity, and for this supplement of 3.5% and 4% is exclusively responsible for the Croatian government. That's what's called a country risk. 3.5% interest or 4% interest of the total interest rate for them is directly responsible for the Croatian government. And therefore, when there are no structural reforms or when there are no fast bill proposals after a power point presentation or slide show, then we can rightly ask ourselves when we are going to get the country out of the crisis because there is no end in sight, usually what should be done, what all countries are doing is that, in parallel with restructuring, reduce expenditures but also new borrowings that will be by the central state, by the state-related funds, are pumping into structural reforms. When that money is pumped into liquidity, when that money is pumped into payment, then it definitely cannot bring growth and development but the lack of tax mass that Croatia is facing, as in the period compared to the same period last year industrial production is lower by 6%. And in such conditions, you can't stimulate growth with anything, especially if you forget to react properly and in time. Finally, I can say that the HBOR report is in line with a report on an economic policy that has existed for almost 20 years, that the programme is slightly bigger every year than without more serious changes in trends and stronger economic promotion. It is normal that the guarantee fund as such could not live because Croatia and the Croatian economy are not permeable enough to absorb that liquidity to absorb the money that could be pumped into it, those good companies that exist are borrowing them both favourably and easily, and the bad companies no one wants to give them credit, no one wants to grant them funds, because at that time the approval of those funds may have fired some people or have a cancellation contract with them in the drawer. And in such a situation, it is certainly not good that there is no adequate reaction and government policy that has been in the past 20 years, with the necessary period of re-routing the previous government headed by the late Prime Minister Racan, who has rescheduled the existing effects that have been trends in 99 years, this policy is mostly a philosophical one and is such a reflection of this HBOR report. Without major credit activities, every year with some growth or decline, with a small multiplier, much smaller than in developed European countries, which is the result of general uncertainty, adverse investment climate and non-constitutional economic policy aimed at ensuring the growth of domestic production. Because only the growth of domestic production, the creation of additional value can ensure long-term sustainable development in Croatia. Without that, we're just telling a story, we're moving the ball to the other side of the field, we're coming from the hollow to empty, and we're eating our substance, and we're eating our matter. In this way, this country cannot be run anymore, and therefore it is necessary if there is no will, willingness and strength to reform, reform laws and all that is necessary to implement to go to early elections, the programme is presented, and then you can see who can implement the programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55932	It is next to the club of HNS, HSU and distinguished colleague Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55933	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Board with an associate, state secretary, co-workers and colleagues. The HNS and HSU Club will support this report by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development as always. A report that in a very correct way speaks of what has been done. And I would especially like to emphasise in a very correct way about what was done within those real possibilities that they could not influence, but what opportunities and what frameworks the Government of the Republic of Croatia gives them or provides. And I am quite certain that these potentials are not used and that these possibilities in this report are not defined by concrete figures, but by reading these figures by reading this report and not only this year but by all these years, it is evident that the potential of the HBOR is far more powerful, far greater than that shown in this report. But I want to repeat it again at the club of HNS and HSU as we have always claimed that this framework of HBOR must be provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Yes, since it has already been said by counterpart Maric that HBOR has one strong share in lending to the Croatian economy, that an excellent tool in communication with commercial banks is certainly true. However, it is questionable and the key question is how well and quality this tool we used or how well and quality we created a lever for HBOR our economy at the moment the commercial banks turned around, normally someone allowed them to do so, they did not, by chance, when they turned from the economy of a special production economy, especially the production economy export-oriented with a conditionally low income product or better said labour-intense activity. The fact that the measures that the government has announced very effectively during the 1st month as support for the economy and model A and model B, the fact that the HBOR has also well agreed, that, rather than realizing that there is no, having seen one idea of how and how to help the Croatian economy this possibility and that opportunity was recognised by Governor Rohatinski and HNB, it has released, announced the potential of 10 billion, freed 3 billion that, combined with HBOR and business banks, were to go to the real sector in the economic sector. The fact that by model A we came into one phase of exhaustion. At the last auction, 5 auctions from the offered commercial bank reported everything for 1/3. Therefore, the remaining untapped potential of the previous 4 auctions was used 800 million. But all that together and all that together is far from the potential of 3 billion. That's what he's talking about. The finance minister claims that our entrepreneurs don't have programs, that our entrepreneurs have potential, have the possibility, but simply don't recognize the chance. Personally, we, too, at the club HNS and HSU, claim that this is a very underestimating relationship towards our economy and entrepreneurs. Many of our entrepreneurs don't only fight with their product on the domestic market, though. The wood industry is exporting 80% of its production to very hard markets. Because of the monetary losses these people have suffered for many years, since we fixed the exchange rate, they pay between 10% and 15% each year only through monetary loss. And, of course, they're exhausted. And I'm sure they need support, and I'm sure they need help. However, they are not interesting to commercial banks. When these measures were taken, measures A and B, we announced a possible problem and we announced a possible outcome. And then we suggested that the Croatian government determine what kind of economy we want, what economic branches, what economic branches we want to encourage, what economic branches will stimulate the change in the structure of our economy, what economic branches will stimulate employment, what economic branches will create a positive net foreign exchange effect? But we don't know that. I'm asking, does any of you know that? Normally, it requires knowledge, of course, that there should be responsibilities that are obviously missing when we talk about the Croatian government. But certainly if the Croatian government were willing to take that responsibility and had that knowledge, that the potential of the HBOR would be more strongly expressed, almost certainly. Because then no commercial banks decide to do so, the Croatian Bank decides to restore and develop the basis of a strategy adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And certainly that 3 billion potential that wasn't used, and since the whole story went completely wrong, Governor Rohatinski suspended the possibility of further release to those 10 billion that were promised. Model B is totally fiasco. Are our entrepreneurs not ready to invest? Do our entrepreneurs not have the knowledge and ability and the need to replace technology, install productive technology? Do our entrepreneurs not have a market? However, according to model B, along with commercial banks, model B, along with commercial banks, experienced total fiasco. The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has knowledge, has experience, has funds. Commercial banks should be happy that at all Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development wants to make arrangements with them. However, this story is not dictated by us but dictated by commercial banks, only because we are not prepared to take responsibility. The third thing, when the prime minister invited all of us to contribute to a joint exit from the crisis, it is our joint job, the Croatian People's Party proposed model A and model B in a completely different version. At the time, we also proposed a guarantee fund to guarantee business banks and affect the problem of interest levels, affect the problem and high passive interest, however, we have nothing, and we have a Croatian Guarantee Agency. The Croatian government also has a guarantee potential based on assets that are completely unused. If we had chosen by some criteria of the company up to 400 employees of the 3 billion we proposed total potential, 20 companies would have received 15 million. Do I, with this 15 million such company, repeat the basis of a certain criterion, not leaving the market, would these companies do any work? Absolutely not, and launched in one segment of the economy. Therefore, there is a whole series of economic professions, and we are proposing from the opposition all this time, we propose, but there is simply no power to take responsibility, there is no courage needed to take responsibility until the Government of the Republic of Croatia takes responsibility for itself and provides the opportunities and tools that exist, the resources that we have, the institutions that we have, to stand behind the economy, and not the one that counterpart Maric spoke of, but the one who is very tough and very tough, taking care of each kuna, with their responsible relationship to the business of their company, have managed to preserve themselves and at this time of strong indifference caused by public companies and people certainly have a chance, have the potential to take advantage of these tools. However, there is a need for knowledge and responsibility. Another thing that we especially want in the Croatian People's Party club, the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party, we want to especially encourage, we want to highlight as one of the possible problems. We heard in the report that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development made one model in support of the IPARD pre-accession programme. Now our question is what we do, do we do, do we work on designing models for structural funds, for structural instruments. 3.5 billion waiting for us in 2012, 2013. I'm not going in as many projects as we have right now, but we don't. I'm not getting into how many projects we're going to prepare by the end of 2011, very, very nearly certain. But I ask what potential we are, first I ask how much we have informed our municipalities and cities. We may be, but how much we've informed the businessmen. Businessmen also have the option in this segment where they can buy 85 kuna for 15 kuna or for 15 euros 85 euros. My question is how much are we, did we form a fund, did we form a credit line within the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development which will be a support to the exhausted units of local administration that today because the full stabilisation of state finances is a burden of units of local administration that have knowledge, have projects, have programmes, help them prepare these programmes and projects for the possible conversion of virtual European money into concrete money. Do we have credit lines to the economy, that the economy prepares itself to convert virtual European money into real money in their companies and their businesses? Logic says that since we have 3.5 billion at our disposal, logic is that at this point we should have at least 7 billion. Spain had 10 times more reported projects than the potential set by the European Commission before it entered. How much do we have? And certainly in this segment is also an extremely important role and importance for the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. And in this sense, we at the Croatian People's Party club, in addition to supporting this report, want to warn the Government of the Republic of Croatia that all these tools, all of these good things we have at our disposal, and the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is one of these, that it is time to take responsibility and through this key apparatus to or to provide support for the Croatian economy, but before it is determined which part of the Croatian economy. It's normal to have knowledge for that. Does this knowledge have what we in the club of HNS and the Croatian party of pensioners suspect because time and activities prove. But it's certainly an opportunity with which we don't have time to wait, an opportunity we need to take advantage of right now, when we're not already yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55934	Thank you. We have two applications for correction of the quote. First of all, dear colleague Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55935	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Koracevic, said incorrectly that the Croatian government lacks knowledge and responsibility. It is certainly my responsibility that my colleague, Korajevic, and the payment and maternity benefits that you were told at the time of the coalition government have been abolished. Second regular payment of pensions, children's allowances and everything else that is necessary. As for knowledge, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund welcome the government's decisions as decisive. But when you set out to make those demands, then you'd be a little politicizing as well as a referendum. It seems to me that your approach is somehow as I will, I will not, as our colleague Miranda Mrsic says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55936	Thank you. And the second amendment to Davor Huška's quote. Here's your friend, Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55937	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President, so counterpart Koracevic says there are no prepared projects, there are no credit funds co-financed by projects from pre-accession funds, no means to co-finance the European Union's projects. So here's just one example from this report, the IPRD programme, which is aimed at just lending IPARD projects to 1.1, aims to enable applicants, potential candidates to have more favourable credit funds to finance the entire investment that includes part of the investment that will run for the IPARD programme. Here is the beginning, a good start right through HBOR where funds are provided for pre-accession funds, and I believe that lines will be opened for structural funds when the moment comes, and that there are no prepared projects in Croatia you are talking about the virtual funds of the European Union. I think that you live in a virtual world, drop to loads, cities, municipalities, counties, and see how many projects are prepared today, how many projects with building permits are prepared in Croatian roads, Croatian waters and God forbid these funds are opened as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55938	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of colleague Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55939	I'm correcting an incorrect correction, Article 203, because I wasn't saying it, you were correcting my incorrect quote, something I wasn't talking about at all, and apparently you were living in a virtual world, because you mixed pears and apples. My discussion was based on what was waiting for us. It's 2012, 2013. Therefore,... And you have corrected me for what we do today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, a colleague should descend into the real world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55940	Comrade Koračević, we use the plate then we must also say what is injured. But good. We're moving on with an individual discussion. We're done with clubs. First, a colleague, Gordan Maras, checked in. He's gone. Then the application was submitted by a distinguished colleague, Nadica Jelash. Here you go, pals. She's gone. And my colleague, Zeljko Turk. Here you go, buddy Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55941	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleague of the board of directors, ladies and gentlemen. We have before us a report from the HBOR for the year behind us and at first to say that I will personally support this report in the form and in the way it is here today at the plenary session, and also on the committees presented. It is clear and we have already said here several times that in 2009, the year of the crisis and certainly the overall work of the HBOR and its observation are certainly related to this circumstance and that fact. At the beginning, it is therefore necessary to conclude that in 2009, the number of loans issued in percentages has increased by 4%, although by several percentage points the financial value itself has been reduced. But here it is important to conclude, indicated that in the original HBOR plans for that year 2009, this reduction plan, and given the overall economic circumstances, was far greater and far greater, which means that despite this situation in these new conditions during work that year, I have found additional funds and new programmes that have affected me to say more than correct implementation of this programme for 2009. Another important feature that despite the crisis and the financial market, which is largely tied to increasing HBOR interest rates by its financial transactions managed to keep the interest rates at an existing level, which should certainly be assessed as the success of HBOR leaders and administrations in this past time for 2009. It should certainly be noted that, in the context of the newly created circumstances, in addition to those strategic specifics which the HBOR has had, it was important to notice and then adapt to the new conditions, and to offer those programmes which, on the one hand, provide development, but also in the context of crisis conditions, to enable business operators to work and operate at the existing level. Because it is clear and does not need to be repeated much, that in fact maintaining employment of wage levels and existing turnover, the company was, in fact, the primary objective with the normal development possibility where possible, with this particular commendation and I clearly conclude that and precisely the programmes that are related to the financing of crafts were the necessity and well-hit measures, and in these several segments of financing of crafts by different programmes from permanent crafts, from the lending of production, liquidity, preparation of exports, tourist seasons and microcredit are well-roamed measures that are in that 2009. ..... /. years of insurance... In fact, the HBOR responded to thoughts of over 75 to 80% of all the requirements that were mentioned on these grounds. [[You don't understand.]] Of course, this is especially important to mention the support of the Croatian exporters themselves with over 550 loans, and in particular 550 loans granted for the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises. When we are talking about just the craftsmanship, then the fundamental objective of which HBOR was led in 2009 was to ensure the strengthening of the business itself through the investment and issue of loans in permanent crafts, especially the lending of the production itself where the special target group was a production that enables business to be facilitated, and in particular to improve liquidity competitiveness in these significantly difficult operating conditions, which are certainly linked to trends on the global economic scene and the overall scene, and also normally on Croatia's premises... economic circumstances and conditions. [[You don't understand.]] What I would particularly like to say here is that HBOR has had special hearing and support for exporters through various programmes, from the very preparation of the IPARD candidacy measures and the funds of credited exporters from... the programme, but what I particularly want to say is that only the lending of exports related to the exports of the goods we know of, and we know that the goods production is the first and the victim, and I am pleased in any case that more than 5 hundred loans are tied to the premises and the export preparation programmes, and it is convenient to conclude that in these loans the largest part of the food production is preceded, then the chemical industry, the production of machines, the finished metal products, and in the end the industry which is also in these difficult conditions, and despite the fall of exports, it was the one that carried Croatian exports in 2009. [[You don't understand.]] It is certainly necessary to establish further activities of the HBOR in the issue of bank guarantees under certain new business conditions, and I certainly believe that these measures in 2009 have contributed significantly to strengthening the Croatian economy under these conditions in which the Croatian economy acted. It is certainly necessary to establish and draw the line here that despite these difficult conditions for the Croatian economy and the business of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development was successful, respecting the special weight of business, and related to a significant increase in risk in all export markets observed in 2009. Certainly, the basic characteristic of this business and the decline in exports is almost 20% in the past period, which is the result of just a reduction in demand, both on domestic and then normally on the external market. One of these essential characteristics in which the HBOR operated in 2009 is the extension of payment deadlines, which is certainly a moment affecting the reduction of the total liquidity of the exporters themselves, and thus also affected the business of the Croatian Bank itself for Reconstruction and Development, as well as the continuing growing demand for insurance products in the new conditions. Despite all this, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has done a positive job, it has generally increased quality in all the increased risks that were in 2009, so with respect to the facts and data presented by Mr. Maric when it comes to the types of risks that are particularly exposed and visible, we find and commend the work of the Croatian Bank and the renovation, Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in 2009. And in the end, we'll give a special opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55942	Thank you very much. And now she has applied for the debate, and a distinguished colleague, Nevenka Majdenic, is on her way. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55943	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable President of the Board, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which has practically existed for 18 years and since then, until now, the Croatian Parliament has confirmed its report on work and financial operations for the past year. The annual report shall be drawn up in accordance with the applicable legal regulations, in particular the Accounting Act and the international standards of financial reporting, and shall accurately and truthfully display the business event and financial position of the bank. The management of the bank is obliged to ensure conditions, and to take measures for timely and accurate management of all accounting records and to prevent irregularities. Since this report has already been adopted by the Supervisory Board and has been given a positive opinion by an independent auditory house, we do not really have the right to doubt the data and justification of the measures and activities taken, and the core strategic objectives of the HBOR are to encourage and finance the systematic, sustainable and even economic and social development of the Republic of Croatia. The fact is that in the end of 2008 the global financial crisis and its significant impact on business in 2009 gave the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development far better results than could be expected at the beginning of the year. This primarily refers to insurance with the assistance of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the necessary credit funds for the lending of the Croatian economy at the time of the breakdown of many financial world markets. It is very important to stress that the conditions for lending to end-users remained the same as before the crisis, so interest rates, deadlines, and payment insurance and others. HBOR has already been said during 2009, but it is indeed necessary to say it has granted a total of a thousand 202 loans, which is thus 4% more than the previous year, and the total amount of over 6 billion kuna appropriations is lower by 5% than the year before, however, at the end of 2008, a significantly higher reduction in credit ratings due to the announced difficulties in the insurance of funds. In my opinion, the results are, above all, a result of the success of the business of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, but also of very good cooperation and great assistance from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is particularly important to note that the conditions of crediting to the Croatian Bank for the restoration and development by international financial institutions are, therefore, the World Bank, the German Development Bank and others, as well as before the emergence of the global economic crisis, which tells me about the position of financial capital security in Croatia. Therefore, it cannot be said that there is no security here and that the government does not make it so. It is also important to point out that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in 2009 paid full attention to Croatian exporters and small and medium enterprises. Therefore, 4.18 billion kuna or even 68% of total credit appropriations were granted in exporters through 550 credit lines. The same number of loans is 550 granted to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs but totalling 961 million kuna. The two economic groups were given priority last year in granting loans because they were among the first to be hit by the global financial crisis, exporters due to the reduction of orders and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs due to the increase in liquidity and the provision of assistance in maintaining the competitiveness of the existing scope of activity. These funds were implemented directly through the five regional offices of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and I am very glad that there are regional offices in these major places, which provided professional assistance especially to small entrepreneurs and enabled them to have access to credit, or through business banks that have taken over the implementation of the credit. I think it is important to say that the HBOR has been involved in helping economies to overcome the problem of liquidity by introducing new credit programmes for the purpose of financing crafts. These programmes have led to a strong interest in the economy as shown by the number of loans granted for these new programmes, 879 out of 1202, but at the level of the appropriations, 4.7 billion kuna and 77% of the total appropriations. It is certain that these new programs that went last year, which continued in 2010, will show their full effects and benefits in this and in the following years. During the reporting year, the implementation of new credit programmes has continued with a view to making more effective use of the pre-accession funds of the European Union. As part of this programme, projects to be run for co-financing under the specific pre-accession programme for agriculture and rural development of SAP are also allowed to be loaned through the PAR programme to small and medium enterprises for the 2006 grant-free use projects. As part of the IPA programme for the award of business infrastructure gifts, HBOR decided to monitor users of the business infrastructure lending programme. According to the micro-loaning programme, 240 loans amounted to HRK 83 million were granted in 2009, and these funds were fully used in November 2009. So indeed this line has proved very successful and acceptable, to end-users, I think it's a good thing it started immediately with negotiations with the German Development Bank, on the conclusion of a new line. It is just this list of some results of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, some implemented and started new credit programmes that gives us the basis to conclude that it is actively involved in the achievement of its basic task, which is crediting the development of the Croatian economy. Therefore, I think this annual financial report should be accepted. I propose that other financial institutions and business banks be recommended, to be actively involved in our economy's lending programmes because they will all benefit from strong and competitive entrepreneurship in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55944	Thank you, colleague. It's time for debate, dear colleague Davor Huška. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55945	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Board with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here, from this 2009 HBOR Report, I want to highlight what I think is most important and this is highlighted in this Report of HBOR Cooperation and the implementation of projects and programmes towards the economy and entrepreneurs. During the economic and financial crisis, one of the core objectives of the HBOR was to increase the availability of credit to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs at more favourable interest rates, thus directly affecting their competitiveness and liquidity and to promote the foundation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Thus, out of a total of 28 credit programmes to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs available 21, lending programmes are implemented directly and through business banks, regardless of the opinion of some colleagues that it is better to carry out loans to entrepreneurs through business banks, according to information coming from the field of entrepreneurs, they are more satisfied when they directly use credit funds via the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It should be pointed out with satisfaction that with the aim of helping Croatian economies overcome the problem of liquidity, the HBOR introduced new programmes in 2009 for the purpose of financing crafts assets that have generated a great interest in the economy. According to all the programmes intended for crediting crafts, permanent crafts, crediting of production, liquidity, preparation of exports, preparation of the tourist season and micro-credit during 2009 879 loans were granted, totalling over 4.7 billion kuna and 77% of total approvals. I can say that according to this, these well-hit programs help entrepreneurs at the most difficult moments of their business. Furthermore, excellent co-operation with international financial institutions has also resulted in the finding of favourable financial resources. Co-operation with the German Bank for Reconstruction and Development, with the Central Investment Bank, with the European Investment Bank, and with the World Bank, has also been highlighted, and have, under the same conditions as before, made it possible to lend from HBOR funds to end-users under the same conditions, thus allowing the retention of HBOR interest rates at the same level. It is a pleasure to comment on the structure of the credit portfolio where 91% of portfolios enter Group A, only 9% in Group B, and 0% in Group C. I want to highlight one and stress the good co-operation of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development with local self-government units, with regional self-government units. Excellent cooperation of employees of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, with supporting institutions, entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship centres, business incubators, technology parks, as well as with entrepreneurs themselves, as well as with the willingness of employees, as well as the director of HBOR himself to come to the ground to descend among entrepreneurs, representatives of support institutions, cities, municipalities and performances of HBOR programmes. For all of this I wish you successful work in the coming years and of course we accept this report by HBOR for 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55946	Thank you very much. A esteemed colleague, Jerko Roshin, also applied for participation in the debate. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55947	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Kovac, colleagues and colleagues. There are times in times of financial crisis in the world and in Croatia how reflexive, and how self-made, regardless of the fact that you look at the HBOR report in my court, you still have to be certain optimism. Optimism in seeing the realisation in 2009 compared to previous years and the number of contracts realised. In fact, if I saw correctly in the report the total amount compared to 2008 increased by 14% if I read this data well. And the number of users with that is 18% increase. So the placement of funds, the number of users shows one positive development. And that is why I say optimistic about those who have their own serious maybe small but own investments are an independent initiative of mostly smaller economic operators, not too many economic operators and recognition of the state in relation to the benefits granted to such loans, understanding of the state for such an economy, especially those relating to an export-oriented economy, as is said with this data. Thus, not only has a positive shift been made to encourage Croatia's economy, but also the result of HBOR's business with 165 million in that year has been realised in a positive relationship. It is also important that several other elements of this report be pointed out, as well as an explanation of why I agree with such a report, but even more with the activity shown by such a report, that the work of HBOR goes very quietly, undetected almost, undetected because it is not adorned by any affair, no scandals in terms of placement of use of these funds. And in one quiet and peaceful work, here's 18 years since '92. As far as I can see, about 70 billion kuna has been placed, which means about a little over 4 billion dollars a year. HBOR is in one function very useful and in a certain way an intermediary between the sources of funding and end-users, a sort of dispatcher. However, at the same time, one revision of planned investments, so one assessment which is not only the security of the placement of funds, but also a verification of any economic initiative to take over, to the extent that these funds are justified, or to the extent that investment is justified, is realistic that these funds will be able to be recovered. In this way, obtaining these funds and users of these funds have great certainty that they will also do so, since, of course, the criteria are much more stringent than the goodwill and desire of the economy to move forward. Two things I'd like to point out. It is one wish for HBOR to have more resources and that it can support more economic initiatives, smaller economic operators, but also another desire that should be considered, in a certain way, by at least a sports critic. I think that the Split-Dalmatia County that I represent here in the Parliament and whose interests I fight for can be 1.6 too little for all other entities. I don't think there's any particular intention of keeping it at that level. Perhaps the problem is that these funds were not even requested, as some stronger economic initiatives from the Split-Dalmatia County were not available. I'm not making an analysis of it, but I'm pointing out that I'd certainly like it to reach a much bigger level than, say, Varazdinska or a lot of others that are 3.2 of this 4.3 and so on. So, if there can be more understanding, although I don't think it was, if there can be more understanding for the initiatives coming from the Split-Dalmatia County that I represent in a certain way and economically terms. Anyway, I support the report, and I congratulate you on your work, and I believe that's how it's gonna go on. There's no doubt about it when it's been going on so well for so long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55948	Thank you, fellow Roshin. With this, we have exhausted all the applications for discussion by clubs and individually. And on behalf of the promoter, Anton Kovacev, president of the administration will address. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55949	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. Thank you very much for the discussion. Me and my colleague Adzic-Jagodic wrote down all your comments and suggestions. We will try as hard as possible and engage in our work in the next period and in our rules. I say as much as possible. And this debate has shown the role or place of HBOR between hammers and anvils. So, in all times, especially in the past year, when the global economic and financial crisis has spread over to Croatia and significantly threatened the business of economic operators, pressure or cry out whatever you want to call it according to HBOR to abolish a lot of rules, caution, insurance according to approval or during the granting of credit to the economy. On the one hand, in order to mitigate this negative impact of the economic crisis, and on the other hand, there have been calls or recommendations in today's call discussions that require as much insurance as possible for our placements and caution on approval, direct credit cuts and the like. So, our role between hammers and anvils will continue and we will try as in the previous period to maintain some balance, trying as a state development bank to encourage all those economic operators and all those projects that provide security of orderly return and development, opening new jobs or increasing exports or generally business activities on the one hand. Even in those cases where credit insurance is not what is said to be a real estate or what is normally sought by business banks because without this courage and without taking the risk, we cannot expect a significant boost of the economy and a significant step in the Croatian economy, especially Croatian exports. But on the other hand, by respecting the banking profession, we will apply all those rules that business banks and development banks in the countries of the European Union apply to the approval of their loans. So we're going to try to find a balance like we've found it so far. HBOR has so far approved over 42 000 and 300 individual loans and it is not possible that there are no bad discounts among these loans. It's not possible for any business bank, any other development bank. However, fingertips only in certain individual cases of bad placements or disorderly return or return delays cloud the actual picture of HBOR activity and work. I cited the data and I'll repeat it, so in the structure of our portfolio 91% are classified loans in A group, only about 9% in B, and I think it's satisfactory, especially looking at the effect that we had as a state-run development exporting bank on stimulating the economy both in the past year and in general. What I mentioned, but I will repeat, is therefore a very significant shift that we have in the first five months of this year 2010 where we achieved a 56% increase in credit ratings compared to the same period last year. As regards the structure of approved loans, it is true that I, too, stated in the report, that this structure in 2009 is significantly different compared to all previous years. In all previous years, we have granted almost 70% of the credit for investment, for investment, for investment in fixed assets, and only 30% for crafts. This structure changed in 2009 and not by chance, namely, we listened to what the businessmen sought to open new credit programmes, so we set up new credit programmes just to solve the underlying problem of the economy in the past year, and this was the problem of liquidity and the need for crafts. So the structure of approved loans in the last year was about 70% for investment in craft. It is not possible to expect the start of new investments, increased investment, but rather to reduce investment needs, respectively, in times of demand and plasma reduction and in the domestic and foreign markets. This is not only the case in Croatia but also in all countries of the environment and in all European Union countries. There were mentions of multipliers or insufficient use of potential in the underlying capital that HBOR had available both last and past years. I must say that significant, large, respectable development banks from the European Union countries in 2009 recorded losses in billions of euros. We have concluded thanks to God and the past crisis year with profits that are not significant and which are smaller than the previous years, but confirms that we have found a balance between our basic task, support for the economy and support for the growth of the Croatian economy and the security of plasma, i.e. sufficient insurance and respect for banking criteria and professional criteria for the approval of all credits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55950	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55951	11. The annual HBOR financial report for 2009. The applicant of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting in favour of the decision to confirm the annual financial reports of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This HBOR's financial report was accepted by the majority of 97 votes in favour of, 2 abstentions, nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55952	We're moving to the third item of the agenda. This is - Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2009 Carrier: Croatian National Bank Croatian National Bank is the applicant of this report on the basis of Article 62. The law on the Croatian National Bank. You received the proposal by mail. The government has delivered its opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. Would the proposaler's representative like to take the opening statement? Yes, he does. Governor of the Croatian National Bank, Mr. Zeljko Rohatinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55953	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me point out some of the highlights that are contained in our annual report, and I will not spread the topic in terms of time or content. Some previous attempts by my colleague, Vujčić, and me, that we are practically talking about the most powerful movements have led us to get out of the agenda theme and thus violate Parliament Rules of Procedure so that this time I will not make a similar mistake. I would say that the first effect of the expansion of the global financial crisis is on the financial system in Croatia after the fall of the Zagreb Stock Exchange was a strong pressure on foreign currency liquidity. Both the suspension of foreign capital inflows, the withdrawal of foreign investors from our stock market and the creation of an initial panic savings and pressure on the withdrawal of savings deposits from banks. With all the other measures the CNB took in such conditions at the very beginning of 2009 we had two major interventions on the foreign market, where we total sold 513... The euro and were prepared and much larger interventions to maintain the stability of the financial system and the exchange rate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, in the context of the total measures that were then taken as well as the foreign banks' own procedures, the situation stabilised, and the CNB ended in 2009 with a gross foreign exchange cut of 10.4 billion euros or a net earnings of 9 billion euros, which is approximately more than at the end of 2008. And this increase was firstly achieved by the net purchase of foreign exchanges from business banks and from the Ministry of Finance to... The IMF’s assets and revenues from investments by the CNB covered a reduction in these reserves based on a reduction in the reserve rate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We invested our savings in accordance with Article 19. The CNB law means a preferred liquidity and investment security exclusively with the aim of avoiding both credit and interest risks. There are many internal mechanisms in the CNB, and as we do from investment in the institutions of the highest credit rating, dispersion of investment, collateralisation and so on. Reference portfolios on the euro and on the dollar, which provide us with a positive investment rate of up to one year. Thus, at the end of 2009, our reserves in 88% were invested in countries and central banks 10.5% in international financial institutions and 1.5% in commercial banks. ... The structure is 73% in the euro, 24% in the dollars and 3% in the special drawing rights of the IMF. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what the crisis in the global financial markets in 2009 has brought was, however, a drastic decline in the yield curve, and above all on the dollar portfolio as a result of the rapid rise in the price of funds in the previous 2008 which could no longer be compensated by the fall in 2009 and all in the conditions of very low interest rates and the American... and the European Central Bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So our contribution rate in 2009 was 1.73% on the euro portfolio and 0.50% on the dollar portfolio, which is 3 times smaller than it was in 2008. It had to be reflected in both structure and height... Income, because as you know, the entire CNB asset is in foreign exchange. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The operating income was reduced by 77% compared to 2008 and in spite of the increase in all costs, we managed to keep them at a nominal level in 2008. As a result, surplus revenue was achieved over expenditures or a popular profit of 553 million kuna, which is 6 times less than in 2008. But we appreciate that this is a very good financial result, because in the context of the crisis most of the central banks in Europe have achieved losses. And they're always shown in their reports because they use all the international accounting standards that we use, but comparablely we're among the few who got something at the end of 2009. And now our assets amount to 79.6 billion kuna, increased by 12.8% and the capital of the CNB is 8.3 billion kuna and increased by 3%. The situation in which the CNB was operating means under the conditions of the crisis, of course, that it has had an even greater impact on the business of the banks. It is characterized by the first significant slowdown in the growth of active banks, which amounted to around 7% in 2008, down to 2.4% in 2009, and there have been significant changes in this structure, and above all in terms of increasing the share of more liquid, less risky items at the expense of the loans themselves, but also in the direction of additional currency substitution, and strengthening the credit with respect to the kuna portfolio, which was in fact just a reflection of the currency changes in the structure of their passive. Everything that's been going on and supported and spreading rumors about... It simply saves to turn its Kunian savings into foreign savings. [[You don't understand.]] The illustrations for kuna savings in business banks were reduced by 22% in 2009 and the exchange rate increased by 15.5%. The second phenomenon in business banking in 2009 was of course important... the quality of their placements, and simply businesses and especially the population were no longer in crisis conditions able to pay their loans at the same time. [[You don't understand.]] The result is a significant increase in bank reservations for non-refundable or disorderly, and loans have also increased their operating costs. That is why bank profits have been reduced by around 25%, but capitalisation and liquidity of banks remain very high, even increased compared to 2008. All of this was also made up by increased requirements for co-administration by the CNB and this co-government which has now taken place under substantially modified conditions, and the new Credit Institutions Act has entered into force, a complete sublegal regulation has been amended, and there has been a change in the legal assets of the European Union in the area of providing financial services, which specifically marked the new Capital Requirements Directive. And under such conditions, co-ordination activities took place on two colossals, direct supervision which was 33 in 2009, in 20 credit institutions and so on. a credit rating analysis of which more than 165 such analyses have been made. And here's these aspects of CNB's work in 2009. And of course most of our report refers to... politics, the state of the financial system, the interaction of monetary and fiscal policy and the similar elements that represent our... [[You don't understand.]] I would not like to convince those parts of the analysis, and instead I would read the final assessment from a European Central Bank document called... [[You don't understand.]] Financial stability for candidate countries to join the European Union, which has been prepared for a ministerial dialogue between... [[You don't understand.]] The European Union and three candidate countries, held in Brussels on 18 May this year. [[You don't understand.]] I'm warning you, it's not a document that's not binding. It is their assessment of how ready and able we are to really enter the European Union in the financial sector. So, it is said, in the latest and further evaluations of financial stability for Croatia a year ago, the following phenomena were identified as major risk factors for financial stability. Rapid financial deepening based on strong credit growth in the private sector, the second, widespread foreign currency credit nominated by the related credit risk, the third large, growing financial imbalance and the fourth... pressures. The international financial and economic environment, meanwhile, has significantly changed the situation. Given such an environment, the global crisis has put a serious test ahead of Croatia. Croatia is dealing well with it for the time being, which has changed the country's risk profile in some ways, and the crisis itself and the adjustment measures carried out by the Croatian authorities to respond to... the impact of the global crisis have reduced some of the current risks while other risks due to the crisis have increased or have been partialised during the crisis. Croatia has been hit hard by a global crisis and the economy has fallen into the deepest recession since the early transition period. The current balance of payments account situation was improved during the crisis but the country's external position remains an important source of vulnerability given the high level of foreign debt and the need for its reprogramming. The impact of the global financial crisis revealed temporary funding difficulties in early 2009. However, unlike other Central and Southeast European countries, Croatia has managed to overcome its initial financial turbulence without reaching for international aid. However, and... macroeconomic, macroeconomic challenges for Croatia are the most relevant to the mitigation of its external vulnerability, especially on the side of funding. In this context, it is crucial to prevent further deterioration of the position of the Croatian Foreign Debt. This is a difficult task, given that businesses are increasingly relying on direct borrowing abroad and in view of Croatia's obligation to fully liberalise capital flows in line with the acquis of the European Union. Like other Southeast and Middle Eastern European countries, inflation concerns have accelerated in Croatia to become an irrelevant issue, in the context of the global crisis, allowing the CNB to focus on other partially new priorities. The CNB has indeed successfully maintained the financial stability and stability of the exchange rate during the turbulence period, applying a wide range of measures from... interventions and standard monetary policy measures to direct foreign exchange operations. However, the limited CNB maneuvering space in the area of strict management of the swimming rate still high external imbalances meets the continuing need for fiscal prudence in order to achieve permanent macro-financial stability. In fact, given the deterioration of public finances, fiscal reform, consolidation is beyond need, especially since public finances continue to be burdened with subsidies to different industries, large health and pension obligations and a significant phase of fiscal... Encouraging sustainable financial consolidation mainly by limiting consumption and this is an important challenge. I'll finish by mentioning only the last passport, and in that grade. Maintaining financial and monetary stability in a yet uncertain economic and financial environment while supporting economic recovery and this is a major challenge for the CNB. The extent to which the CNB will succeed is not only dependent on external factors such as short- and medium-term global economic prospects but also on domestic definitions such as the size and speed of restructuring of the debt of different sectors of the economy, the dynamics which will solve the problem of poorer loans and their willingness to restart credit activities, as well as on the level of support for other economic policies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55954	Thank you, Mr. Governor of the Croatian National Bank. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club HSU, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55955	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Gentlemen representatives of the Croatian National Bank, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of the club HNS and HSU will support this annual report as well as all annual reports so far, we have a particular need to stress, that from a whole series of reports coming to the Croatian Parliament, the CNB report is... one of the reports that should be a model for all of us, but at the same time for all of us especially in the Croatian Assembly, and the complete public one material that gives very clear everything that is good, but especially gives... In fact, the fact is and it is a common known thing that for a successful economy, for the successful development of each country is also one of the key things in coordination between fiscal and monetary policy. [[The speaker is not understood because the president's microphone is on.]] However, it is also a fact that, so far and so far, this coordination between monetary and fiscal policy has been broadly unilateral, which is that they have adopted monetary policy measures to realise the objectives of fiscal policy. And it is known that the state of our state finances is relatively stable and not thanks to fiscal policy, not thanks to the primary government of the Republic of Croatia, but primarily to one conservative CNB policy that may not have been the best and the best quality for the Croatian economy, which could certainly have been different, could have been more proactive, could have been more useful, could have been better. However, if the governor of the CNB had a partner, then surely that policy would be different and certainly more useful and better. Because in any case for any other CNB policy other than the existing one, a quality partner is necessary, a responsible partner, and then it is almost certainly the most useful for the entire economy and certainly useful for all of us. Because the fact that only for example the growth and stability of foreign reserves, that we have stabilised finances, but I repeat only the growth and stability of foreign reserves. However, it is also a fact that we have one strong public consumption and that we have the opportunity to open up the possibility of a stronger public consumption, and therefore all other problems that are present and which are... That money in the Treasury needs to be handled rationally is a well-known thing, that one of the almost crucial problems of this country is the irrational handling of money in the Treasury, not yesterday and not the day before, but all these 7 years ago, and that these 7 years we've totaled spending through the state budget raised, in fact that you've raised 40%, that there's still no stronger concrete action than the intention and other than the letter of intent to cut this state spending, that's the fact, that's evident. And it is also a fact that the only one who literally had the strength to reduce the significant amount of state spending by rebalancing is just the former Prime Minister Sanader, who cut that state spending a month before he left, cut the state budget for cca 6 billion. After all the rebalancing were cosmetics, after budgets with growth based on completely wrong data. The announcement of this rebalancing whether at the end of this month, early next month is definitely cosmetic. The announcement of a serious rebalancing after the end of the tourist season as it will be, but certainly and almost certainly, we in the HNS club suspect because simply in the measures, the active measures of the Government of Croatia do not see any concrete measures that would cut state spending, concrete measures that would cancel and correct all those wrong moves in the last 7 years when the state budget was a bug, when the electoral body was paid. And it's hard to believe that now it's going to get into these radical cuts and concrete moves. Therefore, the possibility or synergy of CNB policy with such a fiscal policy certainly does not come to terms, and it certainly does not give that chance does not give the potential of the CNB I repeat in harmony with fiscal authority in the development of the economy itself. In fact, we spoke at the previous point when the HBOR report, the fact that the CNB was ready to release 10 billion kunas for lending profitable projects according to calculations, it was supposed to pull up 1.5% of economic growth by 1.5%, but in any case, it needed a completely different policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and a completely different positioning of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and that these effects would agree. Because it is quite clear to everyone, it is clear to everyone, that to save the economy and finally get out of the crisis is not enough just these models that have been announced, based on these 10 billion, that the exit of the economy from the crisis and the rescue of the economy is necessary for a single set or set of economic policies, that individual measures are not enough. However, which is the set of economic policies, is that of the government's programme which fell immediately to 1.6 when the resolution of all public companies' obligations was announced, and then there was a mistake in the powerpoint. So another measure was the announced rebalancing which will now be cosmetic and not because we have to do it, because our overall situation in the country is what it is, but because some unionists have collected signatures and we have to finance a referendum. All these facts speak of one irresponsibility, one unseriousness, and on the other hand, and one blocked potential, the potential in which one of the key elements, the key factors is the Croatian National Bank. The fact is, with this model A, I'm not going to talk about model B at all who's had a total fiasco, the fact is that there are no guaranteed mechanisms that could be directed towards production by that money, freed money. The fact is that the money was dispersed, went into consumption and it is perfectly logical that the Croatian National Bank simply told us not to give you any more money. It's completely logical and completely understandable. And it is perfectly understandable that the Croatian National Bank's message to the Croatian government to stop further transfers because it literally misused the offer it received from the Croatian National Bank. The fact is that last year, the state increased credit debt by 16.7% and reduced citizens and the economy by 0.7%. And we have a situation as the state rises in the debt and spending of citizens reduces and it is clear that the country needs clear and radical reforms and that these cuts are about to start from the government. And the full position of the Croatian National Bank and the Croatian National Bank policy towards such a policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and it is quite clear such a conservative policy, when I speak conservatively about the export economy, whether and when we were able to make that export economy that is now paying through our business monetary loss. It was certainly a time when it could have been in one completely different direction, however, that it was a partner on the other hand for the potential to be exploited, but today we have a situation that we have. Therefore, in order to use the overall potential that this country has, in order to make use of this overall potential, it is absolutely certain that the policy of the ear and the head of the sand is not a policy that can take advantage of this potential and it is almost certain that we all need real reforms, that we need effective reforms. Not reforms that are subject to computer error but enforceable for the economy, for those who create a new value concrete and useful. And certainly, in such a situation, one such direction, the Croatian National Bank is ready to make its contribution and ultimately also the governor of the Croatian National Bank and the Croatian National Bank are very clear about the problem. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, the responsibility lies with us here and will tomorrow be able to explain or explain to those whose fate or whose daily existence is uncertain, questionable and extremely difficult. Finally, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired Congratulations to the Governor of the Croatian National Bank and all employees of the Croatian National Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55956	Thank you. The HDZ Club and Madam Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55957	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected to the governor with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club supports the Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2009. Due to the spillover of the adverse effects of the financial crisis in the real economy in Croatia, for the first time since 1999, a realistic reduction in gross domestic product was recorded which, according to the assessment of the State Statistics Office, was 5.8% of their quarterly gross domestic product calculation. The analysis of aggregate demand components shows that unfavourable developments in the real economy are the result of a strong reduction in exports of goods and services due to a decline in the volume of world trade, i.e. a reduction in foreign demand. There was also a drop in gross fixed capital investment due to the reduction in private and public sector investment activities, and annual personal consumption contractions were also reported. These unfavourable changes also led to a significant decline in imports of goods and services resulting in a positive statistical contribution from the net foreign demand to the movement of real gross domestic product. Unfavourable developments in the economy also negatively affected labour market indicators, but with a certain time-out. Thus, during 2009, the number of employees decreased, while more and more unemployed people were being registered at the same time. In addition to reducing employment, employers adapted to recession conditions and reduced wages. As regards the price, it should be noted that during 2009, price stability has been ensured, largely due to the stability of the exchange rate according to the euro. Thus, the average annual inflation rate in Croatia decreased from 6.1% in 2008 to 2.4%. If consumer price index components are observed, the biggest contribution to the slowdown of inflation has been to an average annual decline in food and energy prices. When it comes to real estate prices in 2009, there was also a drop of 4.1%, which was the most affected by the reduction in demand for residential space. The slowdown of overall economic activity in 2009 has had a strong impact on the movement of monetary and credit aggregates. That's the first time since '99. the annual decline in bank placements to the private sector, which was affected by the effects of the offer as well as the demand for loans. In fact, in the face of a rise in the share of bad loans in total loans and a higher degree of uncertainty, banks have also tightened other lending conditions. The suspension of bank credit activity and the reduction of total liquidity in the economy strongly reflected a decrease in M1's monetary weight in 2009 at 14.6%. During 2009, the domestic capital market was heavily influenced by the global financial market movement. The pressures stemmed from the overdoing of the global financial crisis and the inability of investors to risk investments marked the beginning of 2009. Under the influence of the reduced volume of international trade exchange and significantly narrowed funding opportunities in 2009, there was a strong contraction of the deficit in the current balance of payments account from 9.2% of gross domestic product as recorded in 2008 to 5.2% of gross domestic product in 2009. The reduction of the negative balance in foreign trade contributed most to the marked decline in imports of road vehicles thanks to which the deficit in the exchange of that section was halved. It also had a significant impact on the exchange of oil and oil derivatives, whose declines in prices of crude oil on the world market have decreased by more than a third. The negative effects of the crisis could also be felt in the exchange of most other types of goods where the decline in imports was mainly more pronounced than the drop in exports. During 2009, domestic sectors increased their foreign assets, stressing the re-investment of investment funds following their withdrawal from foreign capital markets during 2008. The gross foreign debt of the Republic of Croatia increased by 3.6 billion euros during 2009, much less than in the previous 2008 when the debt was 5.9 billion euros. State finances in 2009 were marked by a decline in the income of a consolidated general government, and such movements were due to a strong contraction of aggregate demand. In doing so, the slowdown of economic activity was reflected primarily in the reduction of tax revenues, while the labour market reaction to adverse economic movements occurred with a certain shift and was at a level of less intensity all year round, and only slightly decreased revenues from social contributions. Changes in the tax legislation that were passed, so in 2009 and above all, relating to an increase in the basic rate of value added tax, and the introduction of a special tax on salaries, pensions and other receipts have facilitated this reduction in tax revenue and what is most important ensured the stability of state finances, and the orderly fulfilment of all budgetary commitments. The deterioration of the economic and financial situation in the environment, and then, of course, in our country also affected the composition of the balance sheet and the success of their business. The growth in the total assets of banks was 2.4% in 2009 followed by an increase in the share of foreign and indexed assets as well as an increase in short-term plasma shares. There has been a rise in credit risk, i.e. a decrease in the ability to pay off bank loans, especially in the case of companies. The banks responded, therefore, to the reduction in the value of the claims so that they increased the payment deadlines, but also reprogrammed the existing loans. In 2009, the Croatian National Bank fully adapted the legal framework for the business of credit institutions. So, banks, savings banks and housing savings, the acquis of the European Union. The Credit Institutions Act as a fundamental law governing the establishment and operation of credit institutions came into force on 1 January 2009, and amendments to the Credit Institutions Act were adopted on two occasions during 2009. The entire sub-legislative regulation entered into force on 31 March 2010 has, of course, been amended. The Croatian National Bank carried out 33 direct controls in 20 credit institutions in the area of direct supervision during 2009. In addition to overseeing credit institutions, the Croatian National Bank has for the first time exercised supervision of credit unions. So there were total direct controls. In addition, the Croatian National Bank also carried out an analysis of legally prescribed monthly and quarterly reports that provide all credit institutions and groups of banks, and produced 165 written analysis of the business of credit institutions of which 156 for individual institutions and 9 for credit institutions. Significant resources in the Croatian National Bank during 2009 were engaged in contact with the main international credit rating agencies, define methodologies and process of recognition as external credit risk assessment institutions, and in the operational implementation of their recognition. During the year, co-operation with foreign supervisors related to supervision of banking groups belonging to domestic credit institutions has also been intensified. It should be concluded that, of course, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted measures for economic recovery and development that have created the conditions for long-term sustainable economic growth, for increasing investment and job creation for increasing production, and for maintaining a stable macroeconomic framework, and that these measures are also supported by the Croatian National Bank, but also by all other relevant global financial institutions. Finally, I would like to stress that this report is very quality and very detailed, it provides full and complete insight into all areas within the competence of the Croatian National Bank, and therefore the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55958	Thank you very much. Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55959	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Governor, the vice governors. I think it might be better to talk about 2010, but about where Croatia was in 2009. The fact is that all the parameters of this year in 2010 have deteriorated compared to 2009, and the best hint where Croatia is in 2010 is the hint of state bonds of as many as 15 billion kuna, which should most likely happen by the end of this month. Mr. Shuker is quietly preparing the ground for Croatia's new task, after it has succeeded in Spain, Hungary, probably for us. As I said by the end of this month, Shuker is expected to bring about 15 billion kuna into the state budget, a small part of the money of about 4 and a half billion kuna will be borrowed from the issue of bonds in Croatia, while the rest will be collected from 1 and a half to 2 billion dollars abroad by placing dollar bonds. The European market has expressed interest in about 800m euros in Croatian bonds, the rest will be taken by US investors, and it is not excluded that Croatian papers will be taken by the Chinese. The price of money will be 6.75%, similar to that of last year. If Minister Shuker raises 15 billion kuna, Shuker will close this year's deficit, solve the budget financing problem. With new loans, the Prime Minister will be in the saddle, but the question of how long it will be in that saddle, because when the money comes, no one will show any interest in reducing expenditure. The problem is that the country's perspective will certainly not be better afterwards. As gentlemen seemed when it comes to bonds last year, we were best shown here in this report, where on page 35 is said that after 5 years, the Republic of Croatia issued at the end of May 2009 on foreign capital markets a new six-year bond nominated in euro, a nominal amount of 750m euros, and with an unchangeable annual interest of 6.5%. In addition, in early November 2009, another new state-owned ten-year international bond was nominated for US dollars, a nominal amount of $1 billion and $500 million, and at an unchangeable interest rate of 6.75%. So the odds are already worse. It's visible on interest. This is also so far the largest issue of the international bonds of the Republic of Croatia established by the governor. Since the bond was nominated in euro in February, the nominal amount of 500m euros, the end of June and the samurai bond of 25 billion yen, quoted a total of 6 editions of Croatian government bonds as well as the end of 2008. Of the remaining international bonds, the Republic of Croatia has been nominated four in euros, two in US dollars. The total nominal value of all 6 editions of Croatian bonds on foreign markets at the end of 2009 was 30.3 billion kuna, i.e. 4.1 billion euros, by 7.9 billion kuna or a billion euros compared to the situation at the end of the previous year, and we owe ourselves another 3 billion euros through such a form this year. It means we can co-finance this deficit, so we can get into the election, de facto expect new responsibilities. Here's what we can do now, and we can call out a live election. Who's gonna pay it back? What's this money gonna be spent on? That's the central question. Will it be spending money on social peace? Will this be to stimulate consumption, so that through VAT and some development intensity something will return to the state budget or will it be spent on development? I'm sure how elections are coming in, buying social peace and naked survival. But what is the central question when this report for 2009 where was Croatia in 2009? According to these macroeconomic indicators, which say almost a hundred pages of this report, we read that the 2009 gross domestic product fell by 5.8%, industrial production fell by 9.2%, retail trade by 15.3%, construction index by 6.5%, the number of employees decreased by 94 thousand, foreign debt increased by brother 5 billion euros, at the end of the period was 98.3% of gross social product, and it is clear that it will continue to grow both this year and next year. This means that in 2009, there is a change in the head of the government and after that, and these bad parameters have deteriorated further. The gross social product continues to fall by 2 and a half percent, compared to 2008, it is almost 9 percent, industrial production in the 4th month was 9.6%, lower than those 9% from 2009, which will say almost 20%, construction declines by 18.3% in the 4th month, etc. A man asks himself a normal question where we end up? If it wasn't for these 15 billion kuna bonds that Croatia will make by the end of this year, surely one of the most severe rebalancing in the last two or three years would be waiting for us, thus less of everything will be the same. In the first 6 months, the revenue of the budget was 855 million kuna or 1.6% lower compared to last year, expenditure recorded a growth of 370 million kuna i.e. 0.6% or 1.2 billion kuna are greater than that half-year deficit. We have a deficit of 7.7 billion kuna or 90% planned for 2010 should be believed that it will not increase, i.e. guarantees issued to Croatia of more than 12.5 billion kuna will not be charged, etc. The question was what the government would cut, it was held that it could reach those salary revenues, otherwise for wages is set aside at an annual level of 22.5 billion kuna in the state budget, the additions to the salary are 3.9 billion kuna, a billion kuna and 400 million kuna for transport, a billion kuna for regression plus Christmas, it is a total of those 6.5 billion kuna, but indeed if this money comes, it is really a question of why and what to touch, regardless of what little yesterday, if I do not cheat Mrs Kosor, it will be even more difficult for the next 6 months, and therefore it is necessary to gather HDZ and all opposition parties. I think that we must gather together and only if we want to help Croatia and the people and what is possible with the previous elections, because otherwise we can really sink, as the Prime Minister says in the abyss. The only light point can be said when it comes to the economic reality in the last year, even the beginning of this year. If we rule out Croatian monopolies to which the state was sold, the Croatian National Bank. Maybe in 2000, there was supposed to be a more flexible policy up to the kuna, why? Because of the promotion of exports due to the competitiveness of tourism, because of investments in Croatia, but when this was not done until today, which would certainly be useful if someone were to benefit from Istria, because Istria has an intensely high-level export economy. So when that didn't happen until today, then that kuna should be kept to paraphrase as the pupil of my eye. In 2009, we were certainly saved by the fact that the Croatian National Bank has huge deposits of business banks deposited with it from 42.2 billion kuna, but it is also interesting that this table on the 64th side of the bank's activity towards the owner's headquarters, and among other things it is said that the bank's domestic private ownership of 4.2%, domestic state-owned banks account for 4.2% and foreign-owned banks own 99.9%, but what is far more interesting to me is the data on the 65th side that the loans to the other commissioners of 2009 amounted to 246.4 billion kuna. So 246.4 billion kuna, meaning foreign banks that de facto ruled Croatia, and we're talking about the sanctity of national sovereignty, wouldn't even bother me if they were here in such a way that interest rates, for example, daughters of these foreign banks, don't matter whether it's Intesa, Unicredit, Landes Banks, Erste Banks in Croatia, are roughly like Italy, Austria, Germany, Hungary, France, etc. I look at these annexes after the diary for example ZABA 90 seconds and then in one such contribution they are roughly advertised with extremely favourable loans, for micro loans, for the purchase of cars up to 25 thousand kuna where interest is "trunky" by 8.6%, and perhaps 9.6%, so for them is an extremely favourable interest. In Italy new cars are sold for 0 to 1% interest. It is clear that this must be done in the relationship between the state and the bank, between the bank and the seller of those cars, between the bank and the manufacturer, etc. However, which is one of the biggest problems when we talk about these loans at the moment. Business banks, they made this smaller profit for the first 6 months compared to last year by 18.87%, in five months. By the end of May, they made a billion 620 million kuna, last year in the same period, a billion 990 million kuna. Credits to citizens at the end of five months are $117.6 billion or three billion less than 2009. However, if, in circumstances where the Swiss franc has increased by almost 30% in 12 months compared to the euro, they do not go out to the citizens, and the credit wars do not account for them, that is, if they do not tie them to another currency, not to the Swiss or the dollar, many citizens will be in debt slavery. Banks, if they changed that currency clause, they'd make a little less money, they'd still make more than their mothers in the same circumstances, but they'd survive, and the citizens, if they didn't change, would fall into debt slavery. And that is why I call on both the Government and the Parliament and the Croatian National Bank to put pressure on business banks in Croatia, to change those provisions or that link with the Swiss, and if not simply to pass the Law to ban currency clauses. The 67th party means 2009 deposits were 9 billion kunas higher than in 2008 but in 2010, loans fall as well, and that is one of the data that the country is more difficult to live in, that opportunities are worse, and what concerns are unpaid loans from year to year. In 2008, at the end of the year, we had 4% of outstanding loans. In the second half of 2009, that was already 6.5%, 2010 today is 8% by the end of the year will be worse. Every 12th, the 13th kuna cannot be charged from business banks. This still does not mean that they are "hazarded" but also the burden of payment cannot be shifted by changing interest rates to those who regularly comply with their obligations. Once again the banks are safe, interest flies into the sky it's not good and I appeal to the control of currency clauses. It is becoming I would dare to show one of the biggest Croatian problems at the moment, as well as the Croatian economy, and I think that both the CNB and the Government and the Parliament should decide what to do with the currency clauses. Otherwise, I support the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55960	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our work without a break with the vote of confidence of Minister Bošnjakovic at 4:00 p.m., but because of this, we'll have to finish this session a little early tonight, maybe an hour earlier. Now it's the HSS Club and Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. And please don't get too far apart.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55961	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Rohatinski, with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The 2009 CNB report confirms everything we know in some way. The crisis that has rocked the whole world has spread over the borders of the Republic of Croatia, negatively affecting economic activities, resulting in an increase in the number of unemployed. Thus, due to the transfer of adverse effects of the financial crisis in the economic sector in 2009 for the first time since the 1990s, a realistic reduction in gross social product was recorded in Croatia by 5.8%. The negative trends in the economy are mainly due to the reduction in exports of goods and services due to the decline in the volume of world trade, i.e. more specifically due to the reduction of foreign demand. The decline in gross investment as well as the reduction in personal consumption has been noticeable. However, the level of state consumption was approximately equal to that of consumption in 2008. Unfortunately, unfavourable economic movements have also affected unemployment. As the number of employees decreased, several unemployed persons were registered. In addition, employers have reached out for wage cuts. Job loss or wage cuts have thus become the reality of Croatian citizens, but this cannot be resolved by this institution but is expected from the economic recovery programme. The annual report in question shows that the CNB provided price stability during 2009 or achieved its basic law-defined objective. The average annual inflation rate in the Republic of Croatia decreased from 6.1% in 2008 to 2.4%. Price stability has largely been achieved thanks to the stability of the kuna exchange rate towards the euro, which is the main anchor of inflation expectations. Furthermore, in 2009 the CNB bought more than 895m euros net through foreign exchange transactions to business banks and the Ministry of Finance and imitated 6.4 billion kuna, significantly more than in 2008. The slowdown of overall economic activity in 2009 has had a strong impact on the movement of monetary and credit aggregates. Thus, for the first time since 1990, the annual decline in private sector placements was recorded, which was affected by the effects of the offer and the demand for loans. The increase in uncertainty of the impact on banks that have taken new risks with increased caution and have increased interest rates and tightened credit conditions. On the one hand, the credit risk has increased since the possibility of paying off bank loans has been reduced, and credits to citizens in particular, cash and non-intentional loans and to buy cars have been reduced. During 2009, the domestic capital market was heavily influenced by the global financial market movement. The poor activity of investors during 2009 marked the Croatian market with debt securities, so bond transport has been the lowest since 2001. The report also shows that Croatia's gross foreign debt increased by 3.6 billion euros during 2009, much less than the previous year when it stood at 5.9 billion euros, reaching 43 billion euros at the end of December. In 2009, the CNB fully adapted, among other things, the legal framework for the business of credit institutions to the acquis of the European Union and was extremely active in the field of direct supervision. And it should be concluded that in the ungrateful circumstances of the economic crisis, the good and timely measures taken by the CNB have maintained price stability and exchange rate stability towards the euro. This report will be supported by all the objectives and tasks set out here for the CNB's HSS Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55962	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55963	Mr. President, Mr. Governor, colleagues and colleagues. The most interesting part of the CNB's report is, however, the assessment of the Marko economic situation in the Republic of Croatia, and from the aspect and fiscal policy with me, I would say economic movements, but of course, especially the monitoring of financial affairs in the Republic of Croatia. Unequivocally from the National Bank's data in the Croatian Parliament, data are valuable that show that in 2009, the year of the severe crisis and that in fact all the doubts between us are whether the crisis, or not, is, how deep it is, how severe it is after the analysis of the National Bank's figures is slowly becoming clear how difficult this crisis in the Republic of Croatia is with the consequences of a huge number of unemployed, with the consequences of a significant drop in economic activity, a significant I would say decline and a gross social product and, of course, as a consequence of that problem in liquidity and, of course, the execution of income and revenue side of the state budget. In 2009 and the 2009 crisis, however, we can still see that the foundations of this crisis are not in the financial crisis, which is otherwise characteristic of Europe, because we have in the report and analysis of the state and movement of macroeconomic ones in Europe and the causes of these movements in Europe. Therefore, we cannot say that the crisis is caused by the financial crisis but rather by a good part of the structural problems in the Republic of Croatia. Excessive consumption in relation to the opportunities of the economy and taxpayers. For each of us, there is always a question of how the executive authorities were raised in relation to the crisis in 2009 and of trying to analyse the activities of those who are relevant to control these movements as any of them acted. So here we have monetary authority in I would tell the institution of the National Bank that acted on such a situation, such movements in 2009 and it is up to us to evaluate it probably through this report, but speaking exactly about the actions of the People's Bank, but of course also about the fiscal government that also had its influence on the depth of the crisis and on the possibility that I would say the influence that this crisis might not be so expressed. If we look at what we have set before the National Bank as an obligation, and that is the problem I would say inflation, price movements, exchange rate problems, then we can say that in that part of the National Bank has made its commitment and in such a difficult crisis she has carried out to the end. With its action and behaviour, the institutions that preserved each of the negative movements related to the course were neither too much decline nor too much growth in the value of the kuna. They simply tried to maintain their interventions in a stable manner. Regardless of whether the problem of excessive amounts of foreign exchanges due to ino-delegation affected me I would say the decline in value or the rise in the value of kuna, whether at some point the kuna was simply falling, they simply tried their activities in a difficult crisis not to create additional problems and we can estimate that it did so. I think that when we look at the issue of price developments, the National Bank should not have dealt with it for the simple reason why the terrible fall in consumption, we also had a drop in prices that would have been far more pronounced if we hadn't had energy growth at the same time, the growth of health services. Therefore, I would say the most important costs that are important for the population and simply for the economy when it comes to energy and this particular growth has in some way amortised the decline of other consumer prices, so let's record a little more than 2% of the costs of inflation and I would say the intervention of the National Bank is more important in that part and were not necessary. We are left with the basic question, when we assess what happened to the financial markets, what happened to the banking sector and the loan movement, whether or not the National Bank could have had more impact. In the SDP club, discussing exactly how much the National Bank could influence it, we estimate that a far greater impact should have been the fiscal authorities, not the National Bank. The crisis in Croatia has had no significant impact on the position and stability of banks, the security of banks, except that at the end of 2009, a slightly larger portfolio of risk placements is evident. The reason for the increase in the portfolio of risk placements is the weaker credit activity of the banking system towards the economy because otherwise personal consumption has been brought down I would say to the consumer's will rather than the banking sector. Therefore, the economy is less available, more cautious bank placements. I'd say what the National Bank's goal is, that we simply don't have a threatened security and stability of the banking system. But for all of us who expected this more cautious way of placement, the reduced plasma volume will result in a decline in interest occurred vice versa, interest growth. So the larger the cash mass, the bigger the offer, the higher the interest. We're wondering where the causes of that interest growth are. In the analysis, it's starting to be very clear. A significant part of import funds, funds from abroad, assets burdened with risk assessment in Croatia because it is the world's assessment that we are having a hard time dealing with the crisis, that we are not effective in implementing reforms. And simply, the price is paid at 3 to 4% higher interest than the average interest in Europe. So, more expensive sources, it's on one side. On the other hand, I would say the fiscal authority that is constantly in debt, is also in debt on the domestic market, essentially taking that extra money, so it's simply not a problem to place expensive sources at a higher price. But for all of us, it's worrying that the average price of the bank's capital at a time when the payments to the economy are reduced is about 9%, and it goes up to 13%. That's how it comes from the National Bank report. For those who monitor economic activity, there is no investment in Croatia. With such interest there is no investment in Croatia and therefore it is no wonder that in 2009, we can say a frozen investment in the Republic of Croatia, and then no wonder that only the number of unemployed and registered at the Employment Office is climbing. There, then, we can very clearly say the negative trends in this financial section caused fiscal authority by not addressing the crisis with inadequate reform moves, slow reactions to reforms, the world rated us as risky, so it collected the price of capital and at the same time bought fiscal power due to the lack of revenue in the budget, and thus simply maintained that high capital price. And that's why last year we have a simple downsizing and downsizing. The answer means we estimate that fiscal power is a major cause of bad occurrences on the credit market, bad phenomena that occurred in the banking system. Also when we evaluate the activity of fiscal authorities because if the data is very clear that we have a decline in industrial production, we have a decrease in consumption that almost everyone is registered with... The numbers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't have the growth of the unemployed. That, at the same time, the state budget and state spending or the consumption of the central state and other funds is the only one growing. So the response to the crisis didn't adjust fiscal power. It simply did not reduce the necessary costs to try to stabilise these movements with its own measures, its activities, its cuttings, and at least to mitigate the deficit in that part. An alarming jump in central government's debt, which is the result of budget deficits, is a alarming leap. And we in the SDP are convinced that this deficit is not real. He's shown what the real question is. But if we're going to talk about conflicts with peasants, outstanding commitments from 2008, some securities that are being issued and will be charged next year, it's not registered. Also, every day we hear statements by companies owned by the majority of Croatia's state-owned companies pay their commitments. That's not true. When you talk to these companies, especially from road construction, they are forbidden from invoiceing, forbidden. They don't care, though. Because if they do, they have to pay VAT. By paying VAT, it will only extend the dubiosis, pay interest to the state for unpaid VAT. So, they're all deficits. All this means that state spending with an even greater negative impact on the stability of the macroeconomic situation, and these deficits are these continuous responsibilities that follow us and which essentially hold a high price of capital and essentially disrupts and increases the ino debt. When we look at the fiscal government's behaviour in part of the tax changes we witnessed last year, then the grades here are days. The larger VAT didn't have any effect. The specific contributions introduced, I apologize for the taxes, the crisis taxes that have reduced consumer power have been clearly put in line with the decline in consumption. Thus, the fiscal burdens introduced last year affected negative movements, and it is indicated, a very small effect in reducing the revenue side and in the decline in the revenues of the central state that I would say non-payment of contributions, non-payment of taxes, declines in economic activity of 5.7%, 5.8%. Therefore, at the SDP club with these grades, we must say that we congratulate the National Bank on the conduct of monetary policy in 2009. The active participation tried to maintain the stability of the financial sector in a very crisis year, and we regret that the fiscal government did not do the same. However, I would say that the monetary authority has seen a lack of credit activity towards an economy that has become inequitable, enormous indifference and has gone further to allow the fiscal government to recover in the economy. But in 2009, it didn't help. We are afraid that this negative trend from 2009 will be even worse in 2010. The SDP club supports this report and supports the work of the National Bank last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55964	Thank you. I'd like to inform you that at 13.21, it's been 10 minutes and we're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic, if I have decoded it well.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55965	Excellent, excellent, Mr. President. Thank you. Dear Mr. Governor, colleagues and colleagues. If we want to know what condition the Croatian economy is in, then we just need to take a closer look at the Croatian National Bank Report. However, before and before a more concrete reference to the report itself, here are several undeniable and therefore irrefutable facts. In fact, during the SDP coalition, the average GDP growth was 4.3 and the average GDP growth was around 2 and a half percent between 2004 and 2009. In 2008, the inflation rate at the highest one moment was as much as 6.1%, although the average inflation rate from 2000 to 2004 was 2.9% and the average inflation rate from 2004 to 2009. 3.3%. The share of imports in the gross social product from 2000 to 2003 was around 48%, and in the period from 2004 to around 50% of the foreign debt in the gross social product increased during the SDP coalition from 53% to 66%, and during HDZ it increased to 95%. From 2004 to 2009, foreign debt increased by 20.1 billion euros, and gross social product increased by only 12.2 billion euros. All this time, this whole period has been followed by an increase in the number of unemployed people. Unemployment has never been higher. We've got about 400,000 unemployed people. Unpaid taxes, unpaid contributions, which my colleague Linic spoke about in detail on behalf of the club, are going up to 15 billion kuna, and new taxes are being introduced. The debt of INA that was constantly above 2 billion kuna is tolerated and has not been fully settled, and what counterpart Linic was talking about is that state-owned companies, i.e. banning people through state-owned companies, to invoice it is the form of political corruption a couple of excellence. Instead of encouraging people, because these are the obligations after the work done to invoice the works done, the services, to pay the VAT and all that is necessary, are done in this way. So the citizens are being blackmailed. They're simply in a hostage crisis. None of the economic indicators are positive, it's not positive, and worst of all, it doesn't have a positive trend at all. All this time, so many have lost their jobs, of course by doing so to the limits of poverty, but even those who work, many do not receive wages, the state refuses to sanction employers in an adequate manner, refuses to protect them. It tells us that default, that debt to the believers is one of the very behaviors that is to be tolerated. That's defeating. Not just for business, but generally for civic morality. Poverty knocks on the Croatian door. It was also said by Croatia two years ago by the International Monetary Fund, in the opposition at the time, and by the current authorities so hated by the institution. Some selfish interests prevail, which are not generally good, but general poverty and good for a very small number of people. The Croatian government says it is not afraid, but its main problem is that these same citizens who are terrified of each achievement are no longer afraid of their own and smallest rights. But look at the paradox, they're not afraid because the hungry no longer have anything to lose. The Croatian National Bank's report tells us that there are problems in the banking sector that should be addressed. First of all, at such high interest rates, economic activity is dimming. As a result of the introduction of new types of fees, citizens and the economy are burdened further. However, what needs to be particularly highlighted, we appeal to it, it has already been said here several times in this House, that direct supervision of banks should be increased, so that we no longer experience the Croatian Post Bank. Thank you. Of course, I support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55966	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55967	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, you said poverty knocks on the door. I think that poverty has already entered our homes, well not the parliamentary representatives and politicians, since they live with the tycoons best in this Croatia, and here I come from Slavonia, which is more and more sinking to poverty, from Slavonia that fed not only Croatia but also fed that former country, one large part of Europe. Today, many family and family representatives have a meeting at the ministry to ensure themselves that the production they had this year, that they simply charge at least the costs. On the other hand, the government's measures are most pounding on the citizens' pocket, as well as the local self-government unit, because the most damaging budget is the units of local self-government that are no longer able to finance their commitments. Given that tax, tax, income tax return, profit tax belongs to the entire state, it doesn't even go to the company's headquarters anymore, it doesn't even go towards the head of the population, and that amount that is related to decentralised functions is no longer enough for the system to function especially in poor Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55968	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55969	When the International Monetary Fund spoke about it two years ago, it even talked about how poor we are in total, but how unfairly the total goods in Croatia are allocated. It is our biggest problem that we are very unjust, not only poor but above all unjust country.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55970	Correction of an incorrect allegation, Madam Representative Vesna Buterin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55971	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here I am correcting the incorrect quote of colleague Anticevic Marinovic, who says the unemployment rate has never been higher. Mrs. Marinovic, that's a completely incorrect quote. I will just remind you that according to the International Labour Organisation statistics, and here I have on the Internet economic indicators on the Croatian National Bank page. During your government, Mrs. Marinovic, the unemployment rate in 2000 was 16.1%), 2001. 15.8%, 2002. 14.8% and 9.7%, according to the International Employment Organisation, the unemployment rate is 9.7%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55972	Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55973	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Governor. Here's a few words first about the report itself. It is indisputable that it is a well-structured report, quality and complete. It is also undeniable and true that CNB measures were successful, effective and timely, and that thanks to CNB measures, the stability of the financial system in the Republic of Croatia was preserved during the global financial crisis. However, what is important, the prominent measures of the CNB have limited range in terms of improving and improving the overall macroeconomic picture in the Republic of Croatia, the same applies to fiscal policy, the depreciation of the kuna may have positive effects for some but also negative effects for many others. Fiscal policy as a burden on the real economic sector could certainly contribute to certain parts of the Croatian society but could also significantly endanger social security, health, pension system etc. And in our continued constant stories how to improve the state of the Croatian economy, the macroeconomic picture of the Croatian society we spin less within the same debate, the same framework of fiscal policy, monetary policy, unilateral debates without the ability to understand the big picture and to see the improvements that are really necessary, have an infrastructure character and are a prerequisite for serious, longer-term, more stable economic growth in the Republic of Croatia. It is indisputable that the real sector generates the strength of the Croatian economy, the quality of life and many others, the harmonisation of fiscal policy, monetary policy and their reflections on the real sector are also important but also needs to be taken into account that the real sector has a feedback and certain effects on fiscal policy and monetary policy. What I want to talk more about during this debate concerns the potential of growth, the potential of improving macroeconomic image in general, the potential of economic growth, I would say the various macroeconomic indicators and indicators of growth which can indeed show whether we can expect a better picture of economic, political in the Republic of Croatia with a certain certainty. Modern macroeconomic measurements of growth potential deserve special attention, quantifying economic growth is not alone I would say perhaps at least to the extent of fiscal policy and monetary policy rather than much more in some other sectors. In 1961, a prominent economist concluded that the basic factors of economic growth are related to the quality of human capital. It is human capital that determines the real sector's potential, it determines the risks of each investment, it determines the newly created and new added value in the real sector, and it is a key observation that deserves a little more attention when we talk about the state of the economy in a macroeconomic state at all, and in that sense can serve the following indicators that clearly show where the potential lies but not in the short term but in the long term which can strengthen the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, ensure a stable competitive economy, provide balance at the level of exchange with abroad, and that formal education as one indicator of the quality of human capital deserves some attention. In particular, the average number of years of education per employee in developed economies as one of the indicators of their technological, global competitiveness, their ability to export, their ability to balance and balance exchange with abroad deserves special attention. United States 73. 14.58 years, average employee education, 2003 20 years 77. When you look at these indicators, which determine the potential of the real sector, then they need to be given due attention, in Japan it is 17 years, in England for 16 years, when these statistics would apply to the structure of the Croatian economy then we would be a little more clear why we have problems with the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, why we have problems with exports, why we have a low level of technical and technological complexity and competence in the Croatian economy and these analyses and the correlations deserve certainly a little more attention. The structure of education, how many engineers we have in the real sector, what the structure of education in our universities is, what trends, what indicators are that show with a very high level of confidence what the situation of the Croatian economy can be in the longer term. The fiscal policy measures, very large restrictions, monetary policy measures also have significant constraints. Therefore, seeking the degree of freedom where the potential for economic growth in the Republic of Croatia can be improved deserves special attention. Article in some daily newspapers, I do not know which innovations Croatia at the start of the European Union, Croatian companies invest in new technologies etc. These are indicators that in some ways show what we can expect in the long term. I repeat the restrictions, exhaustions in the sphere of fiscal and monetary policy, cannot, and will not be able to quickly change the image of the Republic of Croatia's macroeconomic image. Small companies that we are very much talking about really are not there and there can be no serious research of development, strengthening competitiveness, etc. Certainly, many other infrastructure conditions of the real sector deserve special attention. Energy infrastructure and its impact on the real sector on the macroeconomic picture of the Republic of Croatia is important. The price of gas determines the competitiveness of our economy determines the cost of operating in the Republic of Croatia, determines the readiness for new investments or even may affect that existing companies today work in the Republic of Croatia can decide and say cheaper energy exists in the neighbourhood. These things have nothing to do with what the CNB is doing. Finally and have and will have a very strong impact on the quality... of your report rather than on the final assessment of the ability of the Croatian economy to stabilise and to ensure, as a member of the European Union, that Croatia provides some of its foundations not only politically, but above all, economic objectives. There are some other elements in that infrastructure section, but due to the shortness of time, perhaps for someone else's sake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55974	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55975	They may agree that an esteemed colleague that fiscal policy influences and can affect the recovery of the economy and the general state of society, however, the fiscal policy of this government certainly cannot lead to recovery and economic recovery and improvement of the situation in the economy. It really doesn't matter how many unemployed there were in '99, 2000 or now 2010. That worker Đakovština, as a percentage I speak, of that worker Đakovština who lost his job the other day, wonders if he will ever be able to see this most beautiful job in the world again and that he will be able to secure his family's life. He really doesn't care how many unemployed were in '99 and how many were in 2009. And also with this fiscal policy exclusively with these tax laws, just remember those red blue posters, you'll see how far it's taken to bring measures and late economic recovery measures. However, this fiscal policy has led to Croatia's full fiscal centralisation. There is no speech on decentralisation as a condition for Croatia's entry into Europe. The units of the local self-government were taken full profit tax, only because they were heading towards the company headquarters because Zagreb wanted to be impoverished, i.e. by the then and present mayor Bandic. My proposal to increase income tax for local self-government units to 73% for decentralised functions would remain 27%, so the system would not change, while profit tax would be divided by 33% from local self-government, regional, state. Normally, the property would belong to 100% and then, through this fiscal decentralisation, conditions would be made possible for a complete recovery of Croatia. And then units of local self-government and regional self-government could affect the improvement of the situation in the economy. ... I don't think the situation in the economy is going to live to see its shift. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55976	Okay. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55977	Well, I will answer your replica out of courtesy, even though I believe that everything you've been saying had little to do with what was the essence of my exposure. I would be glad that you may have looked back on exactly what I think was important and important, which is strengthening the infrastructure from which the ability, competitiveness and quality of the Croatian economy originates. Unfortunately, from your replica, we have seen only one, strong political dissatisfaction above all, and I think that with such events we do not make this political scene constructive, well-intentioned, but it is unfortunately self-inflicted, which is not the interest of the Croatian economy and of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55978	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55979	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The governor with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. This CNB report could call the 2009 report. - a lost year. What's the lost year for? All the data, all the elements in this report are negative. GDP is in decline, the number of unemployed is growing, the situation in Croatian society is critical in the economy. And when Prime Minister Kosor came to power at 6 months in one of the strange circumstances on a ho-hand in the Arena of Zagreb, she said she did not want to call the elections because it would be a lost time. Lost six months to parliamentary elections when there is a new government, to a government that would have political legality, legitimacy to get Croatia out of this crisis where it was found. Then she said it would be a waste of time, but unfortunately this CNB report shows that we lost those six months anyway. That we will lose most likely this year and all that time until the parliamentary elections are discussed and while some government, a new government that can restore this Croatian optimism, draws it from the recession to come to power. And that's not what I'm saying in my head. I say the CNB has very nicely expressed all that in numbers. We need to be combined because you can always say maybe we're really touched by the global crisis, maybe we just couldn't do more, maybe our government is doing great work and it's not going down as much as it should be. But then when you look at the data and you see that the decline in our environment was 4.2% at the level of the year 2009, and when you see that Croatia has fallen 5.8%, then I'm telling you that the government has not worked well. 1.6% of the decline is not greater than in our environment, which is exactly what the government said was not good for Croatia under the conditions of the crisis. 1.6% somewhere in the Republic of Croatia's budget is 3 to 4 billion kuna. It is a message that the government was good at leading Croatia under crisis conditions, there would be no crisis tax, there would be no VAT increase. These are all messages that we can read from this CNB report. That's really defeating. You wouldn't be in the skin of a government who has to read a report like this, I'd say at the end of my term. And it says, with a 5.8% GDP drop, a 8.5% drop in consumption. Now, did the government affect this decline in consumption? Does the government even influence its tax proposals, laws on what is happening to our Croatian citizens? Well, of course it does, she's the most responsible. Crisis tax has proved to be an absolute failure. The decline in consumption, the biggest drop in tourism, or the largest share of the decline in tourism, refers to domestic tourists. People didn't have money because they paid for this government that just couldn't regulate its costs and public spending. There's not a single subject who would behave that way. In one year, you fall almost 6%, and in the second year, you're probably going to fall over 2%, and the consumption stays the same. 8% lower incomes or a decline in the economy % lower, while consumption and public spending remains the same. It's the only thing we're defending, gentlemen, we're only defending HDZ public spending and the government that's failing to deal with that public spending, and that's not good. See production data, see industry data, construction, see all data on pages 15 to 20. The governor clearly wrote to you the balance sheet of HDZ's government in 2009. And then I'm kind of embarrassed to listen to it on this side when it's justified and said it's good, yeah, we're doing good. It's no problem that 55,000 people were out of work last year. We'll take an average since '92. So we're going to get into some valuable middle value and we're going to say it's not as bad as it was in '99. Yeah, in '99, the same HDZ was in power, it's only a little bit out there that's not very popular to compete with, but I can't be satisfied that someone's absolutely discussing that 54 thousand of our fellow citizens are out of a job. Instead of admitting that we haven't worked, we'll try to do something right, of course we can't do it in this situation, we need to get a new political force, political legitimacy in the elections to really get Croatia out of the crisis. And the problem is another one. In Croatia, the optimism of the consumer, the entrepreneurial, however you wish. So who's to blame? It's not possible and some say it's the opposition, like you criticized, people listen to you on TV, and that's why they lost their optimism. Please, you must make sure that exactly the moves as a crisis tax, that the move as a failure to reduce public spending has led to the loss of the optimism of Croatian citizens who need to be recovered from the recession, has been pulled out of the crisis. This year just continued trends last year. I would say as Europe and the world recover, the European Union will record some growth of 0.5 to 1% at the end of the year. Croatia will fall 2%. Industrial production, retail trade, tourism, transport of goods and services, construction in the first 4 months of this year remains in negative balance. At this point, 308,000 unemployed have been the largest number for many years and have not even been able to reduce the impact of seasonal employment in tourism. So we have a terrible problem after the season, the 9th and 10th months we can expect 350, 360 thousand people without a job. And then don't tell me you should be optimistic and say that, it's a good situation, you're doing good because you're not doing good, and you can't even do good anymore. 813 thousand people gave you a signature, that's not an anonymous vote. People came, they gave their ID card and they said here's my signature that what's going on in Croatia is wrong. It's an awful lot of motivation to be told that you're not doing well, and that's why I don't have the confidence that there's anything possible to do at all in this power consolidation or the prime minister's invitations to the media. The only thing that can be done without losing both 2010 and 2011 are parliamentary elections where the new government, who knows maybe if citizens believe you get the election. They may believe you've arranged well, won the election in 2011 or 2010 and continue for the next four years. But the key is that there must be strength that can restore optimism to Croatia and that can somehow give the Croatian citizens hope of getting them out of this situation. And it's not enough just to look at a governor who helps as much as he can. He fired some of the funds, but no one is asking for credits at all in Croatia, and then it's insane to argue for example. That I can't, says Finance Minister Shucker, I can't get someone to take the loan. No, you can't get someone to go for a loan, but you can create an environment to make investment and investment simpler, to be able to return investment bigger, and to create an environment that will be suitable for investment. That's what you can do, and you don't. But at this point, they're looking for 15 billion kuna money by who knows what conditions out there that we're going to pay off for 5, 10, 15, 20 years, like last year in bonds in dollar denominations or in dollars where we get the interest of 6.75%. She's up 20%, and now we're only paying for the first part of the year 70 to 80 million more interest than we should have paid. Who's to blame? Here's one piece of information. 70 million kunas more interest in the first half of the year due to the misdemeanor. We all warned you don't take in dollars, Minister Schucker came back slantfully from America and I said I took 6.75, a good interest rate, a dollar, etc. 70 million kuna interest more in the first half of the year. So, ladies and gentlemen, you shouldn't be running the state, and at the end of the day you're the only one who gets hurt, and you can tell by the taxes that are the only citizen, VAT and taxes growing in the revenues of the state budget, who pays...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55980	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55981	Who pays for such inefficient management of the state. These are our fellow citizens who are eager to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, in the election of what they think of your authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55982	All right, all right. Thank you very much. Two replicas. First, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55983	Dear colleague, I know one who took loans in Japanese yen, so now these loans are on that list of suspicious credit transactions. But I'm saying this part. You said this year, maybe it was a waste of time. I'd say it's been a long time now if it wasn't just a waste of time, that one is a search, a Prussian quest for lost time. It is a little harder to describe to a Croatian worker, a Croatian peasant who is now out of work. And it's a great honor for these gentlemen or boys from the National Bank of Croatia who wouldn't let what happened to that former state happen. It was called hyperinflation, etc. Because they would have been at that level long ago if, in the way that it was the government of the other Eve Sanader, the captain with the little vitre and this new one was leading this policy by getting practically poor to give to the rich. This also applies to all units of local self-government in Slavonia whose budgets are poor and all these cities simply cannot meet their obligations. But it's hard to explain it to one citizen, one worker who in one former PIK Djakovo, who was numbering 3300 employees and was declared a communist mastodon, or what was already called, and was notorious for profit, non-profit centres, etc. where out of those 3,200 people remained now only 150 employees. It's very difficult for them to explain, but they don't even have bread today, and they've stopped having milk for a long time. However, this government will obviously wait and these 800,000 votes are not a warning that nothing is good in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55984	Okay. Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55985	It's just a sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55986	Don't do this to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55987	Only the only job Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament that has been open in the last six months is the seat of the Parliament's spokeswoman... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55988	All right, all right. You'll just have to listen and listen. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55989	It is necessary to listen, and therefore it should be made clear to Croatian citizens that not only is this report as is the case with a lot of devastating data. We can do it specifically. Let's now ask how much and what does the economy minister do when 50% of direct external investments in Croatia fall in one year, means almost 2 billion euros less investment compared to 2008. How much has this been invested in Croatia? Who creates these circumstances? Were people really supposed to be out of a job? Is there anything more we could have done? Clearly, we could and therefore it is important to speak and it is good that you speak from the position of Đakovština that people hear that what should not be done and that it is not a question of pessimism in general, but of pessimism is caused by the poor conduct of the HDZ government. Only with that. Believe me, this may sound a little strange to you right now, but after the change of government in Croatia optimism will rise rapidly. You will also see on economic indicators and stock values and consumption because people simply don't trust HDZ authorities anymore and that's the general problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55990	When you promise to increase optimism to increase optimism But this is one very interesting thing. [[Invader Vinkovic: Good life to everyone, not just to some!]] We will see how that promise will be fulfilled and what happens if that promise is not fulfilled, if there is no promise, etc. Yeah? But this is very interesting, it's one of the unique increases in optimism. ... No, no. [[Intruder Vinkovic, you don't understand.]] I'm not commenting. I wouldn't dare comment on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55991	But the last time HDZ won, stocks went up. Let's say the IGH jumped right away.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55992	Okay. Whoever it was, you were patient and you once welcomed and now it takes ten years to be patient again, so... patience, patiently saved. Yeah? Mr. Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55993	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, for the GDP fall of 5.8% and why we are not recovering faster when we leave the crisis, you have exclusively said that the government is the cause of this. You only found the culprit in the government. I would take advantage of the opportunity, so I would say recently we were visiting the French Parliament, I led a delegation with members of the SDP. There was a debate on the situation in the Croatian economy and a special rapporteur Mr. Marini reported in their Senate and we participated in this debate. It has been noted that measures have not been made clearer for a long time than those recently brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for economic recovery. It is emphasized that it prevents us in a faster recovery. Low level of credit activity of business banks, high passive interest rates, high interest rates on credit ratings and insufficient market developments. That is emphasized, and I have even experienced the personal satisfaction that they have said is exactly what you often say in the Parliament. The interest rate in Croatia is an in elastic category as well as bank profits. She's not responding to anything. By offering money when the liquidity of banks increases interest rates. When liquidity is present, interest rates rise. When the gross domestic product grows profits rise banks. When everyone in the economic crisis doesn't make anyone win a bank again, three, four billion profits. The problem is more complex, and people don't need to be forced into loans because at this point, they're forcing someone into loans under the terms that banks approve of, at high interest rates, they're doing evil to people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55994	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55995	I agree with you, but fellow Maric when we talk about banks and it's always a debate when the CNB or certain things like this are on the agenda and the profits that are really big 3 and a half billion kunas get seem impressive in years when traffics and interest revenues rise in one year which is a crisis seems totally illogical. So 22 billion of interest, a billion and more than the previous year seems absolutely illogical. But we have an opportunity to react. It would not be Croatia's first country to introduce a special tax. This is called colloquially on banks or interest, etc. The SDP proposed in the Parliament. It will now be introduced by Hungary, Austria, England. Croatia is not an isolated country on this principle and on this issue. That's what a lot of people have that problem, but it works. We don't act, we don't act. We have a really illogical situation of interest growing and interest in foreign currency growing, and... That's really illogical. [[You don't understand.]] But there's one more thing. Which is why the government has a part of its guilt, because the risk premium in Croatia is already higher when you seek capital to invest in Croatia, the return is due to the premium of the risk of Croatia as a market, and as a situation created by the government macroeconomic in Croatia, the risk premium is higher and therefore the interest is greater than in other countries. Yeah, that's true. We have to, and we can't run from it after all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55996	Final review, Governor of the Croatian National Bank Željko Rohatinski. Here you go, Governor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55997	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In the opening statement in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I only limited myself to the presentation of the 2009 movement, and listening to all today's quality debate, I simply feel the need to say, to move on, and that is to say something about 2010. All the negative ones, and what hit us last year, of course, didn't come to an end. Expectations that the downward trend would be halted in the second quarter of 2010 have proved too optimistic. This stop is likely to take place only at the end of the year, which means that there will be a decline in gross domestic product in 2010. We're estimating about 1 and a half percent. First of all, it will also be affected by the decline in investment, and this shows us among other things that those three models A, B, C trends do not produce enough results. Of course, model A, model B is not, and model C is not even talked about anymore. Only exports will have positive movements and it is not, it will not be enough to compensate for the decline of domestic demand. And with that fall of GDP, and of course the tax base is reduced. Then tax revenues. We estimate that the revenues of a consolidated general state will be around 4% lower in 2010 than in 2009 and if expenditure remains approximately where they are now, and when they are added to the protested guarantees, above all for part of the shipbuilding, the repayment of the rest of the debt to the pensioners and... for the central government's non-financial assets, the deficit of a consolidated general state will grow from 4.4% to 6% of GDP by then. [[You don't understand.]] If more HAC is added to this then it will be 6.4% and the gross domestic product will be around 21 billion kuna. At the same time, the main public debt payment that needs to be made in 2010 is around €26 billion, which means that the financing needs are at a level of €47 billion or half a year earlier. It is not impossible to finance, but it will be difficult, especially because the finance minister has to go to the European market in the fall, when Spain will also be there, and Portugal and Italy, when there won't be much free money, and it will be expensive. So if we look at some standards of indicators, especially those that take into account the country's risk assessment, in three out of four of these indicators we stand badly. We increase the fiscal deficit, we increase public debt compared to GDP, we think it will be 48% of GDP at the end of the year, at the end of 2009. We're increasing external debt from 95 to 100%. The only thing we're achieving is a reduction in the balance of payments deficits, but as long as it's a deficit and a debt of 14. It's about time we did something. The question is whether we should have done it two years ago, it's politically relevant and economically not. We have to do something now, because if we don't do it now, and we're gonna have to change things, it's gonna get even more painful and harder later. Finally, joining the EU, which we all want, will not solve anything. Let us look at these members and the problems they have and the European Union's reaction to their problems. You're on your own and we're just gonna help to the extent that we protect our own banks. We won't have any better status than they have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55998	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u55999	12. Annual report by the Croatian National Bank for 2009. Carrier of the Croatian National Bank. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting the conclusion: the annual report of the Croatian National Bank for 2009 is accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This year's report was accepted by, unanimously, 94 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56000	We move to the next item - Annual report on the work of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency for 2009, Proposer: Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency This report was submitted on the basis of Article 13. Law on the work of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency. The government delivered an opinion, the debate was conducted by the Maritime and Liaison Committee and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, you received reports at the session. The president of the Agency's Council, Miljenko Krvisek, will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56001	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Thank you for the opportunity to convince in a few words what is more detailed in the annual report on the work of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency. According to official data, the market for electronic communications in the Republic of Croatia in 2009 achieved a overall decline in revenues of 1.67%. The decrease in revenue of 2.9% was recorded in mobile communications networks, while in fixed telecommunications networks income was lower by 9.6% and the encouraging growth of income of 44.9% was achieved in data transfer, which is mostly the result of increased use of broadband internet access. The cause of this fall in income is seen in a crisis that has actually affected the whole world, but in insufficient investments and innovation of operators from past years. Phenomenes less investment and innovation less income that are characteristic of the world market communication works in Croatia in this activity, of course. The number of public voice service subscribers via the immovable network in the Republic of Croatia is in stagnation, resulting from the replacement of immovable communications by motion, and the transition to broadband internet access. The public telephone mobile network registered in 2009 a decline in revenue despite a slight increase in the number of users, however, an analysis of price developments, suggests that the prices of using mobile network services are above the EU average. Comparative user density with European Union countries in 2009 shows that the Republic of Croatia is above the average of European Union countries in the network of mobile communications, while on average it is on the European Union, according to the density of the network of immovable communications. That percentage of density is 137%, so we have 137 mobile phones on 100 residents. The share of new operators in terms of the number of users and the total revenue achieved on the public and fixed network market in the Republic of Croatia is on a steady rise. The total number of Internet users in the Republic of Croatia shows a trend of accelerated growth. Last year, the number of Internet users increased by 11% and reached user density compared to 56.3%. When it comes to broadband access, the Republic of Croatia does not have the desired broadband competitiveness compared to the European Union countries, despite the fact that the number of broadband subscribers has increased by 30% through a fixed network during 2009, with a population density of 15.44%. However, the uneven spread of wide-ranging connections across certain counties remains present. The digitalisation and switching process from analogue to digital television has been successfully launched in the past year, HA com carried out a public tender and issued the first authorisation to provide electronic communications network management services for TVz. Multiplex A and Multiplex B, which provides technical preconditions for new 6 programmes at national level with the existing four programmes. By the end of 2009, the population coverage of 96% for multiplex A and 91% for Multiplex B has been ensured. Since the entry into force of the Law on Electronic Communications in Hacoma is the monitoring of the state and development of postal activity, postal and courier services, as well as ensuring a fair and effective competition in this area. In 2009, the legal framework that changed the position of the courier service provider changed, so what was defined by the Post Act as a service with additional value and was classified under a courier service, this new Law on courier services according to the manner and conditions of the provision of services or under universal postal service or under other postal services or under a courier service. At the end of 2009, a total of 19 postal service providers were registered in the Republic of Croatia, of which only the Croatian postal service provider of all the universal postal services and the basis of the Law on Postage Services has the right and obligation to provide universal services throughout the Republic of Croatia. Other 18 donors, as well as Croatian mail registered for other postal services. The total number of postal courier services and related services in 2009 fell by about 5%. In the total market for postal services, Croatia's post had a share of approximately 89%, while other providers about 11% increased their share last year by approximately 1%. In 2009, we focused on the completion of the market analysis process on 3 market groups, i.e. on interconnection markets in fixed electronic communications networks, wholesale access markets and interconnection markets and retail markets in mobile electronic communications networks. As a result of the analysis and the public debates carried out, the decisions of the councils on which markets where effective competition has been established have been deregulated while, for a part of the market, access to previous regulation has been maintained where HACOM has established operators with significant market power on the basis of the criteria which determines regulatory obligations. In the market analysis process, we took into account the application of the European Commission's recommendations to relevant markets subject to previous regulation on European Commission guidelines, market analysis, the development of the electronic communications market in the Republic of Croatia and the competition. In 2009, we continued to work on the implementation of accounting separation and cost accounting to which HT as an operator with significant market power in order to ensure equal and transparent conditions of competition for all participants in the electronic communications market. We also started the preparation process related to the implementation of the project cost models, for the purpose of obtaining reliable information for the calculation of wholesale prices. We continued to work intensively on planning and ensuring conditions for the release of digital television networks in line with the strategy of switching from analogue to digital broadcasting, we continued in 2009 the planning process for FM radio stations. On the basis of the successful international coordination procedures, significant improvements have been ensured in covering the network of publishers at national level. HAKOM launched a form of digital radio to create a basis for a strategic decision to introduce digital radio and select Croatian standards in radio digitisation. An analysis has been carried out, a public debate and new technological neutral permits have been issued for existing VIPnet and T-Mobile operators to use radio frequency spectrum. Accordingly, a new allocation plan for frequency areas used by these operators has been adopted, allowing both GSM and UMTS technology to be used in these frequency areas. HAKOM has also adopted a new numbering plan, and the problems of overlapping numbering have been solved, and the transition of the existing numbering of emergency services is ensured 92, 93 and 94 to the proposed numbering 192, 194 and 194. During the course of 2009, HAKOM conducted systematic measurements in radio frequency spectrum for its protection as a naturally limited asset of interest to the Republic of Croatia. The measures have also been carried out for the purposes of frequency planning and international coordination. We have paid particular attention to protecting against interference in radio communications. We've had 202 objections and measurements here to protect that frequency area. We have intensified the work of professional service and electronic communications monitors in the surveillance of the entire market, resulting in positive shifts in the behaviour of market participants. In the area of the postal and courier services market, we focused on further liberalisation of the postal services market, faster and simpler acquisition of the right to provide postal services, increasing the responsibility of postal service providers, and a more efficient and quality mechanism for protecting the rights of postal service users. The most important jobs in postal and courier services in 2009 were to set prices for the reservation of postal services, to give consent to the general terms of the Croatian mail, to carry out professional supervision of the application of the law, to give consent to the general acts of the Croatian Post Office on access to the public and postal network, and to separate business activities or the distribution of business activities or the distribution of income and cost of Croatian mail. Croatia's mail is prescribed for accounting separation of different services. They have applied a new method of distribution of income and costs, but there is still a lot of work ahead of them until full accounting separation. In 2009, there was a slight increase in the quality of universal postal services in domestic and international transport. However, this is not yet in line with the criteria laid down in the Regulation or with the standards of the European Union. During 2009, HAKOM continued to carry out professional supervision, so he conducted professional supervision of the business of Croatian Post and CityEx d.o.o. Giver of CityEx d.o.o. a solution has been issued which has been ordered to bring the postal service provided by the Exchange of the Document in line with the Postal Services Act. That's what they did this year. In 2009, a publication of pleasure research and the use of postal services in the Republic of Croatia was published, which gives postal service providers and all other interested institutions and individuals a better condition for the satisfaction and use of postal services. This year we will also conduct research on this has been carried out on individual postal service users, this year we will do the same research on institutions. The protection of users is one area in which we draw special attention in HACOM under the 2008 law and a special department in HACOM dealing with consumer protection has been established. We seek to ensure this protection through simplifying the dispute settlement process, providing clear information, addressing the needs of special social groups, including child protection. In 2009, we improved the process of processing the user's complaints, introduced a programme for recording and processing of objects, allowing a comprehensive analysis of the complaints received and we launched a commission, so we set up a Committee for the Protection of the Rights of Consumers as the consultative body of HACOM in resolving disputes between users and operators. In 2009, only a small increase in the number of users of new services and operators showed that preventive activities carried out contributed to stabilising the number of objections. Since there are an extremely high number of complaints to the operator's accounts, the value added service here will have to change some things and improve the protection of users in this area. A total of 36% of the objections refer to the operator’s value added service accounts. The objections to Internet traffic services also show a trend of growth, resulting in a significant increase in the number of internet users. In 2009, a new type of complaint arises concerning the failures of the operator's behaviour. The fact is that various forms of forced retention of subscribers appear on our market as well as the illegal takeover of subscribers non-transparentity of contractual relations and misleading service offers. In 2009, we continued the implementation of the project and the agency of a strong e-Government of a core integrated information system with the aim of informing the process of increasing productivity, as well as expanding and facilitating access to regulatory services... In 2009, ACOM launched a number of electronic internet-based applications such as e-consultation, e-appeals, e-transportability, e-authority, e-market, e-competitions, e-auctions, e- Councils, e-prices, e-provide and the like. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During 2009 HACOM continued to improve the training of its employees. The most significant projects of the development of regulatory competences are interdisciplinary after a graduate study of the regulation of the electronic communications market that we have launched together with the economic, legal and Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing and under b) the learning process of foreign languages especially English because we are aware that the ignorance of foreign languages limits not only the communication of employees but also narrows the sources of knowledge only in Croatian. Continuing to improve the public of his work, HAKOM launched and implemented a project to create new websites in Croatian and English that put openness, transparency and public work first, adapted some of the content to people with special needs. That is why HACOM's websites received an annual award from one of the top 10 in the category of government organisations and state institutions. Here's a copy of that diploma we got. Last year we successfully installed a quality management system according to the international ISO 9001 standard. By doing so, HACOM became the first regulatory agency in Croatia to have certified a quality management system according to the international ISO 9001 standard. We continued our international cooperation activities, participated in a series of bilateral and multilateral meetings and workshops aimed at promoting effective regulation of the electronic communications market and postal services management of electronic resources, and promoting HACOM as an active and modern regulator in the network of European regulators in the application of the regulatory framework and market development. There is also a quadrilateral meeting in HACOM to coordinate the frequency between Austria, Hungary, Slovenia and Croatia. Tomorrow and the day after tomorrow we have a meeting with the Albanian delegation. So the activity is daily. Just a few more words about HACOM's history as regulatory agencies. The legal predecessor of HACOM was founded in 1999 as the Croatian Telecommunications Institute in 2004 changed the name of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency and the basis of the 2008 law in the Croatian Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications. At the end of 2009, 162 employees were employed. In 2009, the Hacom Council held 38 sessions. So, almost every week for one session. Annually, about 50,000 items are being solved through HACOM. The total income of HACOM last year was 108 million. The state budget was paid 493 million because HACOM issued accounts on behalf of the state budget, and the surplus collected above spent at the end of 2009 was slightly more than 24 million kuna. And another positive thing that's going on, which is going on in 2010 it's moving to digital broadcasting of television. According to the government's 2008 strategy, the process takes place without any difficulty at minimum costs and so far over 800,000 households in Croatia have a digital signal, it is analoguely excluded. So, it remains exclusively digital and we expect to completely exclude analogue signals and start broadcasting in digital technology by the beginning of the 10th month in Croatia. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56002	Thank you. The Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee? Finance and the state budget? I'm opening a debate. Club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, Mr. Representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56003	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Mr. Director of the Agency with an associate. In front of us is the 2009 Report of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency. Mr. Director of the Agency has said a lot from the report itself and has specifically gone through the entire report and just a few more words to add about what may be said and perhaps what is not said and what is the problems of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency in 2009. As indicated, the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications is a national regulatory agency for the performance of regulatory and other tasks within the scope of the jurisdiction laid down by the Law on Electronic Communications and the Law on Mail. The founder of HACOM is the Republic of Croatia, and the founding rights are being exercised by the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. HACOM is an independent and non-profit institution. The work of the Agency is public, and for its work corresponds to the Croatian Assembly, so today this report is ahead of us. HAKOM was founded in July 2008, and is the legal successor of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency and the Post Office Council. HACOM’s task is to regulate the market for electronic communications and mail through price control and regulation, pricing systems and general operating conditions of the electronic communications networks and services market operators. The 2009 HACOM Annual Report contains data on the state of development of the electronic communications networks and services market and postal and courier services markets, an overview of the implementation of the established principles and objectives of the regulation of the electronic communications networks and services market and the postal and courier services markets. The report shall contain information on the achievement of the objectives and tasks set out in the HACOM Annual Work Programme and all other data relevant to the development of the electronic communications networks and services market and postal and courier services markets in the Republic of Croatia. What has also been highlighted in the introduction of the Director, the overall revenue from all the activities of electronic communications in 2009 compared to 2008 fell by 1.67%, and the cause of this decline in the Agency's income is seen primarily in the crisis in which the world is, and so is the Republic of Croatia, as well as insufficient investment and innovation in the operator sector and the introduction of excise duties on mobile communications. The higher price of lower income, less investment, less income innovation is characteristic of the world market for communication, and thus for the market for communication in the Republic of Croatia. As pointed out, the report shows, a public telephone fixed network, the number of subscribers has been reduced compared to the increase in fixed network subscribers. The immovable network also records a 2.9% drop in revenue, and surveys show that the Republic of Croatia by the number of users of fixed network services above the average of the European Union countries, showing that our market is highly liberalised and highly liberalised. As for the Internet, Internet use, the total number of Internet users worldwide, as well as in the Republic of Croatia shows a trend in educational growth, and in the last year the number of Internet users increased by 11.2% and delivered the user density compared to the population to 56.3%. As for switching to digital television, the digitalisation process, the switch from analogue to digital television began at the end of 2009. In the framework of the implementation of the strategy, HAKOM conducted a public tender procedure in April 2009 and issued the first authorisation to provide electronic communications services to digital networks for mux and mux b, thus providing the existing four HRT1, HRT2, NOVA TV and RTL programmes, with technical preconditions and for the new six digital television programmes at national level. As regards the period of the postal service market, since the entry into force of the Law on Electronic Communications, and in accordance with the Law on Postage Services, in accordance with the Law on Postal Services, the monitoring of the situation and the development of postal activity, postal and courier services, as well as the taking of the necessary measures to ensure a fair and effective competition in the postal and courier services market in the Republic of Croatia, is in force. By the end of 2009, a total of 19 postal service providers were registered to HACOM, of which only the Croatian postal service provider of all the universal postal services and the basis of the Postal Services Act has the right and obligation to provide universal services throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Out of the total number of services provided by all active postal and courier service providers, around 94% were achieved in domestic transport and 6% in international transport. As regards the business of the service provider, according to the data provided to HACOM, or estimated data for the providers who, in addition to the provision of postal and courier services, also provide other services, are shown revenues obtained exclusively from the provision of postal and courier services in 2009 compared to the previous year, are approximately 10% higher, which shows the growth of postal and courier services in the Republic of Croatia. Viewing the overall business results from postal operators exclusively from the provision of postal and courier services, it is evident that a group of other providers increased its profits in 2009 compared to the previous year, while Croatia lost losses in this activity in 2009 but also significant profits compared to 2008. It should be pointed out here that the public operator of Croatia mail, a public company which is one of the first companies to implement the restructuring process and that this loss in 2009 was achieved by paying compensation for slightly more than 1800 workers of Croatian mail, so this result of business would be far greater if the costs paid by Croatia to its early pension workers were not taken into account. HACOM deals with the regulation of the electronic communications market and the analysis of the electronic communications market is highlighted in the HACOM report, and we find it very important to provide special protection to users of services and to continue HACOM activities related to consumer protection, in order to ensure a high level of protection of users of electronic communications. There should be a particular emphasis on the complaints of users of fixed and mobile phone operators where users are complaining about much larger accounts than they are really spent and which is very difficult to control. The emphasis is also given here that the Croatian agency HAKOM should take special care of these complaints from users through its commission in 2010. Also, many users give up roaming because the cost of roaming when it comes out of the borders of the Republic of Croatia is difficult to control and it is therefore difficult to prove how much these bills are for our citizens, the users of services are. It is also problematic that what is offered and what is obtained in public advertising is not the same, so our users of the operator services rightly seek the protection of the agency when it comes to paid prices for what they did not get. As for HACOM's 2009 income, they amount to 108 million 780 thousand 458 kuna while total expenditures amount to 82 million 259 thousand 176 kuna. According to these data, HAKOM gained a profit of 26 million 521 thousand 282 kuna in 2009. The total investments of HACOM in 2009 amounted to 10 million 146 thousand 924 kuna, out of which 10 million kunas were 96 thousand 641 kuna regarding investments in electronic communications, while 50 thousand 283 kunas relate to investments in the postal and courier services area. According to the Regulation on the payment of compensation for the provision of part of the communication services and activities in the Regulation on the payment of compensation for the allocation and use of radio frequencies, HACOM issued accounts in 2009 for the benefit of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia of 468 million 316 thousand 16 kuna, and that amount was paid in favour of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. Taking into account all of these, a total of 493 000 681 kuna was paid to the state budget in 2009. Finally, it should be pointed out in particular that, that the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the HACOM Report which is very structural, very high-quality and transparent and shows the work, quality work of the agency in 2009, in particular, we support the training of employees, professional seminars, training of HACOM employees in order to ensure that the postal and courier services market and electronic communications continue to be monitored in 2010 in a high-quality manner, with a view to ensuring special protection for users of mobile and fixed networks services, as well as users of postal and courier services in the Republic of Croatia in 2010, quality follow the supervision of the laws and rules to be regulated by HACOM. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the HACOM report and will vote for its adoption in parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56004	Thank you. The HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56005	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. President of the Council. The annual report of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency for 2009 has been drawn up in accordance with the obligations of the Law on Electronic Communications and the Law on Postage Services and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support its adoption. In 2009, HACOM’s work focused on achieving the established principles and objectives of regulation of the electronic communications and postal services market, which put particular emphasis on promoting effective competition, as well as on promoting market access for new operators and service providers. The total number of Internet users in the Republic of Croatia shows a trend of rapid growth in 2009 the number of Internet users increased by 11.2% and reached user density compared to 56.3%. At the end of 2009, there were 937 thousand 198 broadband connections to the Internet in Croatia, representing a density of 21.13%. In doing so, the number of broadband subscribers has increased by 30.54% through the immovable network, reaching 15.44%, which is still a major downturn compared to the EU27, but a marked growth rate should be stressed, compared to only 2% of EU growth27. The wide-ranging Internet access through mobile networks at the end of 2009 reached a density of 5.69% above the EU average25, reaching as much as 19 members of the European Union. Based on preliminary market situation data, it can be concluded that the overall market for electronic communications in the Republic of Croatia achieved a decrease of around 3 and a half percent compared to around 0% of growth in the European Union in 2009. The causes of such a fall in income should be sought in the crisis that has affected Croatia and the world, and at a insufficient level of investment by operators over the past years. In 2009, HAKOM continued to work intensively on the implementation of the Transition Strategy from analogue to digital broadcasting of television programs in the Republic of Croatia, which included a public tender and first authorisation for transmitters and connections, to provide digital television network management services for the first two multiplexes A and B, which, with the existing four television programs, is provided and technical preconditions for the new six television programmes at the national level. By the end of 2009, a population coverage of 96% for multiplex A and 91% for multiplex B. HACOM focused in 2009 on further liberalisation of the postal services market, faster and simpler acquisition of the right to do postal services, increasing the responsibility of postal service providers and more efficient and quality mechanisms for protecting the rights of postal service users. In 2009, a new Law on Postal Services entered into force, under which HACOM's work has been no longer financed from the state budget since the beginning of 2010, but from the fees paid by postal service providers. The total number of postal couriers and related services in 2009 fell by approximately 5% compared to 2008, while showing revenue from the provision of these services in 2009 compared to 2008 increased by about 10%. Total profits were made prior to the tax of 24 million kuna, while in 2008, total losses in the sector amounting to 126 million kuna were recorded, which means that postal and courier service providers were doing better overall in 2009. In 2009, there was a slight rise in the quality of universal postal services in domestic and international postal transport, although the level of quality has not yet reached EU standards. In 2009, HAKOM conducted professional supervision of the business of the public operator of Croatian Post and City Express providers, especially regarding the measurement of the quality of postal services and the price of universal postal services. HAKOM also manages accounting in accordance with the Regulation on the accounting of non-profit organisations, the Law on Electronic Communications and the Law on postal services. In 2009, HAKOM made total revenue of € 108 million 780 000 458 kuna, of which 105 million 596 thousand 958 kuna refers to revenues from electronic communications and €3 million 183 thousand 500 on revenues from postal and courier services. The total expenditure of HACOM in 2009 is 82 million 259 thousand 176 kuna, 79 million 150 thousand 279 kuna relating to expenditures in the field of electronic communications, and 3 million 108 thousand 897 kuna on expenditure in the area of postal and courier services. In the ordinary expenditures of HAKOM, expenditure related to the implementation of the Strategy for the development of broadband access to the Internet amounting to 19 million 267 thousand 101 kuna. HACOM's total investment for 2009 is 10 million 146 thousand 924 kuna. As a result of its business in 2009, HAKOM made 26 million 521 thousand 282 kuna surplus revenues. In accordance with the provisions of the relevant HACOM laws, 468 million 316 thousand 16 kuna revenues were invoiced in 2009 in favour of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of payment fees for the right to use radio spectrum numbers and the like. We at the HSS Club want to draw further attention to certain problems that we are informed of and citizens addressing the HSS Club, it is about the inability to control the amount of accounts provided by operators for the use of fixed and mobile phones. More and more citizens complain that they are exposed to much larger accounts than the real use of telephone impulses, although operators are constantly advertising more favourable and cheaper tariffs, especially the problem of using roaming services, so some users are disengaging this service to avoid paying high bills. Such phenomena on the telecommunications market need to be better regulated and better regulated to strengthen consumer protection, the users of telecommunications services. We would also like to warn of phenomena in certain counties and places where operators refuse to introduce a fast internet, although this is a need, although citizens have also collected a petition and a sufficient number of signatures where one place has fast internet availability and the neighbouring place does not and no one can explain from the relevant ones what the problem is. The Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency has a special service to protect users, I think that citizens are not familiar with this because they are talking to us in clubs, so it would be good for the leaders to in some additional way promote and express the existence of this commission because it is important for the protection of users and for the protection of consumers who need to be further educated and pointed out to them in ways and ways to protect against possibly some inappropriate behaviour of operators on the telecommunications market. The Croatian Peasant Party Representatives' Club will support the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency's 2009 annual report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56006	Thank you. SDP representative club Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56007	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President. Given the topic of the Annual Report of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency, I would like to inform you that, the other day in Finland, the right to broadband has become a fundamental constitutional human right, so when we change the Constitution, I hope you will take care of it. So, fellow colleagues, the SDP Club supports this Report of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency, we supported it last year, we hope that this will be the case next year. It may be possible to warn colleagues from HACOM that when copying the Copy Paste Reports, etc., little attention is paid not to being too obvious because, let's say, in the text that speaks about broadband internet are therefore, the texts are copied from last year's report, but it is actually something more critical than what is actually a real situation because these findings could be tempered in favour of the better situation of this part of the development of the electronic communications market in the Republic of Croatia. So we have a decline in the total market by 1.67%, most of which falls in income in a fixed network somewhere 9.6% and actually these numerical indicators other than the crisis, except for other factors that affect the fall in traffic in this activity, therefore, the very decline in income in the immovable network shows some changes in the lifestyle of our citizens. And on the other hand, a huge increase in data traffic, a huge increase in broadband users, show another habit of living for our citizens so that the Internet is not only a means of communication, but is a means of increasing information. So here I often get into a situation where the central Croatian Television Log or some other information show I look at the Internet after the date when they are shown, which means that the Internet will slowly replace television more and more, and then, fortunately, Hlorka will not edit the Internet. Well, good. As far as the mobile network is concerned, we have reached a 2.7% drop in revenue, otherwise the mobile network is one of the segments of the activities regulated by Hacom where you market it more and more deregulated, or where there is no operator with significant market power or if it has only one. The fact is also that the Agency has established two other things, one is the increase in the number of users despite the decline in income, and the other is the fact that prices in Croatia are still above the European average and, of course, we need to point out once more, the fact is that there is a far bigger space for price reduction than that happens with various tariffs, packages and everything mobile operators are advertised today. The decline in income was caused among other things and however paradoxically it sounded and the excise duties that were brought on mobile operators, let's remind ourselves we brought in last year at this time, and excise duties were applied only in the second part of the year, so it would probably be even higher. We also warned about this case when we passed the Law, and it is true that the higher the prices are generally lower because people do not like to be done by fools and that they pay something much more expensive than they should pay for, therefore, it should also be taken into account. The Internet. There are only three criteria, which we need to take into account, are availability, quality and price. And in this report, I am actually missing the Agency's assessment of this, of availability, of quality and of prices. And I generally think that this kind of agency reports are, unfortunately, much more concerned with listing a concrete state than with some proposals and moves that could be read out what's coming next year and that some things might be done. Some things in this report compared to last year were done well, and for some things we don't know how they were done. As far as digital television is concerned, the transition of all Croatia to a digital signal is under way, it will be over by the end of 2010, people are slowly getting used to it so digital television will bring even greater opportunities to this programme section, we expect, of course, new professional or special channels of those who receive concession. So, let's say, I expect a new information and new special sports channel in a way that some countries have in the environment, for example, Slovenia with its 3rd programme and then Slovakia with its 3rd national television programme, which is sports, the Czech Republic with the 4th channel of state television, which is sports and special news channel and also other countries. The entire discussion of the SDP club last year in this report or at least most of it came down to a description of the situation in Croatia post office. If you look at the report, you will see that the loss of Croatian mail from 200 million kuna is reduced to 50 million this year. Can we be satisfied with that? Well, it's better to be 50 than to be 200, so some of the critics have fruited. The fact is that the number of services in postal transport has been reduced by 5%, the fact is that the increase in the share of other providers and, of course, it is necessary to see how the Croatian postal company as a state company can react to this, gives an increased share of other providers in packages and in unaddressed shipments. And what is, of course, the Croatian image and opportunity of the situation, so the other service providers in postal services have a profit, and the Croatian post office has a loss. Is that why they might be legal provisions or something? You should see. The fact is that in part of the telecommunications SDP, when the Law on Electronic Communications was adopted, it warned that some provisions favour the largest operator than others. Perhaps some other provisions would give the agency a better position in negotiations with that operator so that some service reductions might be greater than 17% last year. So that's what goes on and on the government's burden. So are the legal provisions in Croatia such as to give the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications a good negotiating basis for the negotiations. Because it obviously needs to be negotiated with the Croatian Telecom because last year the agency was engaged in regulation on 12 markets of which 7 markets are a dominant operator, so the Croatian Telecom or a company owned by it, and it is certain that there is a special relationship and a country relationship as one of the owners of Telekom, then government agencies, government in some way enabling a correct competition. And the fact is that when the law was passed, all the smaller operators were protesting only HT kept quiet. We can guess why. This report does not discuss how negotiations with the Croatian Telecom go particularly in part of the optical cables, etc. One more thing to say besides this technical aspect of the Agency's work, so making it possible for the best quality, the better technical solutions, and then this market-based agency's regulatory work, there's this one, let's call it the sociological part, it's communicating with dissatisfied users and allowing some programmes that are being provided or some of the services that are being provided to be appropriate. I am particularly referring to numbers 060 where the agency did not respect the conclusion of the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee when discussing the 2008 report, which requested an urgent solution to the problem of using 060 numbers for programmes intended for children and young people. Of the other segments should be highlighted the following. Some of the data shown as progress are quantitative progress, but the fact is that they happen among other things because of a change in technology to improve technology, that these things happen in all countries in the environment. And it would be good to see how much Croatia goes forward in that. It goes faster or slower than other countries. In this regard, I hope we can compare with Slovenia, Hungary and Austria, not Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Serbia. And, of course, in the hope that some of these remarks, which I pointed out on behalf of the Representatives Club, will be accepted in the 2010 report. The SDP club will vote to accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56008	Thank you. HNS representative club, HSU's Mrs. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56009	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear rapporteurs of the report, colleagues and colleagues. The annual report on the work of the Croatian Postage and Electronic Communications Agency for 2009 contains a review of the development of electronic communications and postal services, the regulation of the electronic communications market and postal and courier services, the protection of users, the implementation of the work programme and the financial report and the final account. Thus, in the review of the development of the electronic communications market, it is said that total revenue from all electronic communications activities in 2009 decreased by 1.67% compared to 2008. The causes of such a decline in income are seen in the crisis in which the world and the Republic of Croatia, insufficient investments and innovation of operators and the introduction of excise duties on mobile communications. The biggest increase in income of 44.9% was said to be shown in the data transfer activity, which is largely the result of accelerated development and use of wide-ranging internet access. The report further says that the number of public voice service subscribers via the immovable network in the Republic of Croatia is in stagnation, resulting from the replacement of fixed communications to mobile ones, and the transition to broadband. At the end of 2009, the Republic of Croatia was on average in the European Union countries according to the density of the network of fixed communications users. The public mobile network recorded a drop in revenues of 9.6% in 2009. The share of new operators in terms of the number of users and the total revenue achieved on the public fixed network market in the Republic of Croatia is on a steady rise. The public telephone mobile network registered a 2.9% drop in 2009 despite a slight increase in public mobile network users in 2009. The comparison of the density of mobile network users with the European Union countries in October 2009 shows that the Republic of Croatia is above the average of the countries of Europe and an analysis of price trends indicates that prices for the use of mobile network services in the Republic of Croatia are above the European average. When it comes to broadband, the Republic of Croatia does not have the desired broadband competitiveness compared to the countries of Europe. The number of broadband subscribers on the Internet increased by 30.54% in 2009 with a population of 15.44%. The irregular spread of broadband connections across certain counties remains a problem. Furthermore, more significant representation of the total number of broadband connections contributes to both significant development and introduction of access through mobile communications networks. The process of digitisation and switching from analogue to digital television in the Republic of Croatia has started and will gradually cover the entire area of the country. The European Union is seeking to speed up the transition process to earth’s digital television in order to free the spectrum and ensure that so-called the digital dividend for additional television content and new information and communication services and, therefore, the European Commission has published a recommendation to exclude analogue terrestrial television by 2012. The assessment that all European Union countries will not succeed in doing so by this deadline because they do not all start from the same point or start at the same time. In line with the strategy of switching from analogue to digital broadcasting of television programmes in the Republic of Croatia, Croatia will carry out the exclusion of analogue television until the end of 2010 by gradually shutting down nine regions. Our question from the HNS-HSU club is what will happen to those areas of our country where it is impossible to get a digital signal and the population is paying the radio-television subscription neatly. What number of households are involved in those areas where we have done this translation not digitally, and we may have an assessment of which number of households will be carried out in the whole area. A few words about a review of the postal services market. By the date of entry into force of the Postal Services Act, 22 postal and courier service providers were notified to HACOM. At the end of 2009, a total of 19 postal service providers were registered in the Republic of Croatia, of which only HP is a provider of all universal postal services and under the Law on Postage Services has the right and obligation to perform universal services throughout the Republic of Croatia. The other 18 donors as well as HP have been reported for other postal services. In 2009, postal and courier service providers achieved a total of over 383 million postal, courier services and related services, reducing the number of services by approximately 5% compared to 2008. In the total market, HP achieved a share of approximately 89% and a group of other donors had a share of approximately 11%. The group of other donors increased its market share by around 1% in 2009 compared to 2008. Of the total number of services provided by all active postal and courier services in domestic transport, approximately 94% were achieved and 6% in international transport. The revenue generated exclusively from the provision of postal and courier services in 2009 is approximately 10% higher compared to the previous year. According to shown revenues from the provision of postal and courier services in 2009, HP increased revenues by approximately 3% compared to the previous year. On the other hand, the expenditure incurred from the provision of postal and courier services in 2009 is at the same level as in 2008. The share of HP in the expenditure shown since the provision of postal and courier services in 2009 increased by approximately 1% compared to the previous year. According to the information presented, active postal and courier service providers have achieved a total profit prior to tax of 24 million kuna since 2009 while in 2008 they achieved a negative business result of 126 million kuna, which means that the overall business result from the provision of postal and courier services in 2009 was better for 150 million kuna compared to the previous year. Looking at the overall performance of the business, exclusively from the provision of postal and courier services, it is evident that the group of other donors increased its profits in 2009 compared to the previous year, while HP achieved losses in 2009 but which was reduced compared to 2008. Furthermore, the report discusses regulation of the electronic communications market, then we have an overview of market analysis, cost accounting and cost models. The report further discusses the management of the address and number space, the communication infrastructure and building conditions, the monitoring and control of electronic communications, the regulation of the postal and courier services market, and the protection of users and the settlement of disputes between users and operators. It is further about the implementation of the work programme, the development of regulatory competences, the public work of HACOM and the information of the public. In 2009 The Agency has completed the introduction of a quality management system ISO 9001 and has become the first regulatory agency in the Republic of Croatia to have certified a quality management system according to international standards. In international cooperation, it should be said that in the context of the pre-accession instrument of assistance to the European Union IPA Programme during 2009, a project has been agreed by HACOM to ensure the purchase of modern equipment for monitoring and measuring radio spectrum worth 3.5m euros, while at the same time preparing a project with the beginning of this year aimed at strengthening the human potential of HACOM, providing support for the implementation of market analysis and regulatory accounting as the key regulatory tasks of HACOM. On development, HACOM is said to continue to implement its strategic and operational development plan by 2012 through promotion programmes such as convergence programmes and modernisation programmes. The dominant topics of the project are future development of technologies, new regulatory issues that open new technologies, their impact on the development of the electronic communications market, and the economic and legal aspects of proactively neutral and transparent market regulation, encouraging measures for investment and innovation, and fair conditions of competition. The Agency plans to continue to develop and improve public relations specifically through its websites in order to provide timely information on its activities and on the situation on the market for electronic communications and postal services to interested parties. And finally, we at the HNS club, HSU, think that the report gives a good picture of the Agency's work as well as the state of development of the electronic communications network and services market. In our opinion, the submission of this report with the procurement of official data from operators in Croatia and data from the European Union should be timed in order to avoid further and amended reports. And in the end, I can't help but warn of a phenomenon manifested in the harmfulness of overuse of phones especially in children. I know that part doesn't exactly belong to the HACOM domain, but this is an opportunity to warn that we're all in a position to think about how much and when we're going to use this aid. Today, it is no longer questionable whether the phone is a harmful device or not. The only question is how harmful it is. Many countries have gone into research and a longer period is needed. Great Britain has gone far and far, and I think it's getting ready by their government to warn their citizens. With a warning like that, I'd like our government to go too. In doing so, I expect that the initiative will also have a child's attorney. HNS Club, HSU will accept this annual report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56010	Thank you. That's how we exhausted the clubs. We're going into an individual debate. He's the first respected representative of Milivo Schwartz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56011	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. The text of the Annual report on the work of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency for the past year is before us. Meanwhile, in line with the opinion of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure but still without official data on the state of the electronic communications market for 2009 because they have not yet been available and its addition follows us. What should be pointed out in this report is that the stable growth of revenues in the electronic communications market from previous years in 2009 has been replaced by a decline. The growth in revenue of approximately 3.5% in 2008 compared to 2007 has now fallen to a slightly smaller percentage. The shortest said global crisis has hit the global communications market as well. Croatia didn't pass. The same phenomena that are characteristic of the world market appear with us. The largest decline in income is observed in a public fixed network, which is not surprising since the number of subscribers is also in stagnation due to the increasing use of mobile networks. In addition, the data on the density of mobile network users shows that Croatia is above the average of European Union countries, which means that our market has been developed and liberalised in this respect. Since the development of the Internet has also been recognised as one of the key drivers of economic development, competitiveness and the more efficient functioning of public services, satisfaction is caused by the fact that the biggest increase in revenue has been recorded in the data transfer activity resulting from the accelerated development of broadband internet access. So last year, the number of users increased by 11.2%. We had 2 million 495440 users in 2009. What we lack even more uniformly is the spread of broadband connections in certain Croatian counties, and in this sense we should commend selective incentives for the development of broadband internet. How the European Union wants to speed up the transition to digital television and recommends shutting down analoguely by 2012 and we are under way in the digitalisation process according to our strategy for the gradual inclusion of 9 regions by the end of 2010. The transition from analogue to digital broadcasting of television will take place. In addition to the existing 4 HRT 1, HRT 2, New TV and RTL are provided technical conditions for six more new digital television programmes at national level. And the number of postal services decreased in 2009 compared to 2008 by about 5%. At the end of 2009, there were 19 postal service providers of which only Croatian mail has the right and obligation to provide universal postal services throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It is encouraging that the overall business result from the provision of postal and courier services compared to 2008 was better for 150 million kuna, with other donors increasing their profits and Croatia losing its mail. But still much smaller than in 2008. An important part of HACOM's work was also focused last year on effective competition and on enabling market access to new operators and service providers. This will also contribute to the continuation of work on the implementation of accounting separation and cost accounting to which HT is as a certain content and method of collecting accounting information, as well as the way regulatory financial reports are drawn up, and all with the aim of ensuring equal and transparent conditions of competition for all participants in the electronic communications market, and the whole process should be completed in early 2012. The report shows that HACOM's activities in 2009 were directed towards postal service providers in a way that slowly prepares them for the full liberalisation of this market that awaits them. A slight increase in the quality of universal postal services in Croatian Post Offices can be observed, but this is still not in line with European Union standards. As we are increasingly witnesses to the complaint of telecommunications users, HACOM seems to be particularly important in the area of consumer protection and, consequently, the possibility of resolving disputes on the basis of the newly established commission and, most importantly, making binding decisions for operators. In addition to some newspapers, regulations and preventive actions, the number of objections has risen, although the number of users has increased, which is visible progress. More than 70% of complaints refer to the setting up of accounts and their percentage is growing, but given the increased number of new users is not worrying, but it appears with the provision of new services and new types of complaints related to forced retention of subscribers, illegal takeover of subscribers, misleading offers and similar anomalies. HAKOM has made it possible to resolve disputes faster in the past year, thus increasing the quality of consumer protection. As we are familiar with the decision of the Council of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency of 31 December, a new Regulation on the payment of fees for the performance of HACOM operations according to which the fees of the Agency for Operators have been reduced by 10%, and the Agency has adopted measures to facilitate the business of the Croatian electronic communications markets under difficult economic conditions. HAKOM has successfully continued with further investments in e-age and perspective projects, and it is possible to conclude that it has managed to achieve one of its primary roles to enable end-users to choose operators as well as the possibility of easy transition from one operator to another, thus creating the basis for effective competition, which is the basic role of this agency. I will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56012	Thank you. It's the Honorable representative Mirela Holy's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56013	Thank you. Your Honor, Vice President. At the very beginning, I would like to express my dissatisfaction with the content of the 2009 report on the work of the Croatian Postage and Electronic Communications Agency, as the report is gross and inconclusive in the section concerning postal services, and the market for postal services does not have harmony and order, but the principle does not know who drinks, who pays. And in this report, not a word. Although the Croatian Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications should also be the national regulatory agency for the performance of regulatory and other affairs, within the framework of the delirious and jurisdiction of the previously prescribed Law on Mail, that is to say, the Law on Postage Services, and it is a sad fact that these laws have not been respected for years. In the debate, I will specifically refer to reserved universal postal services, performed in Croatia by the state-owned company Croatia Post office. In the context of its approximation and accession to the European Union, Croatia has started to liberalise the postal services market, and Croatia has to adapt to the market conditions of business, while retaining, or achieving, a European level of quality of service delivery. In order to ensure that the obligation to maintain universal services to raise the efficiency of HP operations can be financed, one part of the services is reserved exclusively for HP. It is about the provision of services to reception, transmission, development and delivery of consignors of up to 50 grams. Such a universal service financing solution was prescribed by the European Union directives, and there was and is still practice in most European Union countries, and by 1.1.2011, most of the European Union countries will be fully opened in terms of postal services markets and abolished the reserved area, while only 1.1.2013 will the same happen in a smaller part of the European Union. The Republic of Croatia has made a commitment to complete liberalisation of the postal services market by 1.1.2013 as well. However, through its institutions and bodies, the Croatian government has not done much to protect the reserved area, and it currently operates several postal service providers operating in the reserved area. Similarly, Croatian mail, or Croatian mail, has not done much to protect its interests, and the development of illegal competition... Uninterestedly observed, and then suddenly increased prices and abolished all commercial discounts and thus forced its loyal customers to seek a more favourable service provider, which is private companies. [[You don't understand.]] During the market, an unremembered paradox was recorded, in which illegal competition increased prices about 50% and recorded an increase in the services provided as Croatia's post had made an even higher price increase. Through this concern of the state and state institutions for post-market developments, the issue of reserved postal services has become less important, and the public operator has largely continued with his guilt to cough for the planned time during the liberalisation of the postal market. One of the basic ideas of the liberalisation of the postal market in the Member States of the European Union and the creation of a single market for postal services in which the same conditions would exist throughout the European Union, but such an insistence would be contrary to the basic ideas and settings of a modern capitalist society, if in some way an enterprise initiative and the development of the postal services market were prevented. For this reason, the postal directives indicate a basic set of services that should be uniform, universal postal services, while for new services it is undoubtedly specified that they cannot be prevented in any way or in any way prevented from developing or booking their provision for a single service provider. The new services shall be considered to be services significantly deviating from existing services on the market by their characteristics, method of operation, the market in which they are performed and the like. The hybrid mail is significantly different from the classic postal services by its characteristics, as data are downloaded, processed, printed on paper, converted, addressed and then delivered to the user by users. This avoids most of the technology process of classical postal services, and only delivery of consignments is common. From the position of the service user is completely different from the classic postal service, as the user communicates to the service provider only via electronic data. For the postal services market in the Republic of Croatia, this type of service is a new service, as it is currently not provided by any postal service provider. A public operator began to develop his own version of the service several years ago but for unknown reasons, it gave up although demand for such a service in significant growth, and according to European countries' experiences, it is expected that most of the large postal users will require a hybrid mail service. The illustrations of the work need to be noted that at the moment only the Croatian Post Office and the Post Office of Kosovo are the only public operators in Europe who do not have some form of hybrid mail in their offer. FROM this fact, the care of the owner of the Croatian Post Office for the development of the company and the preparation for the upcoming liberalisation of the postal service market is obvious. The service of hybrid mail is not regulated either in our legislation or in the postal service law and has not been regulated in the previous Mail Act. In European Union countries, public operators have long provided hybrid mail services or services containing all elements of the hybrid mail service, thus making it quite clear to book these services for the public operator as well. Interested hybrid mail service providers in Croatia have requested clarifications on hybrid mail status from the competent ministry precisely because of the fact that the service is not directly defined by law, and after a little less than half a year they managed to obtain an answer which respected all the facts already mentioned before, an unequivocally hybrid mail service set the conditions of the open market. Afterwards, however, the Ministry issued a second opinion which annulled the first opinion issued and declared delivery of shipments resulting from the hybrid mail service process to the reserved service, which is quite absurd. In doing so, the Ministry ignored the following. The service of hybrid mail is not regulated and is not currently provided on the market of the Republic of Croatia, so such service is considered a new service which, under the provisions of the European Commission's Directive on the functioning of the European Union, cannot be reserved. It is not possible to share the hybrid mail service to the part relating to printing and envelopeing and to the part relating to delivery, as market requirements are different in general almost relates to the unification of those two parts into a single service. The reservation of the provision of certain services to a public operator is possible under the Postal Services Act, only for services located in the domain of universal postal services, and hybrid mail is not. Service providers have collected certain contracts from the reception of the first solution, and together with their business partners, they have made significant investments which have been fully impaired by the Ministry's move and have suffered significant damage. Service providers have suffered significant damages and have been prevented from developing new services on the market without a foothold in the Postal Services Act. They will certainly initiate the process of protecting their rights and will certainly have damage to the state. With this move, the Ministry and the Government made it clear that they do not want to improve the quality and offer of postal services in the Republic of Croatia, but that postal service users impose services which are technically technologically behind the services that have become quite common in the European Union countries. Similarly, through protecting the inertness and incompetence of the public operator to adapt its business to market conditions and requirements that arise from postal service users, the modernisation of the business of the Croatian Post Office is delayed and this company is left to be an easy target and easy prey at the moment when the market is fully liberalised and this will be in 2013. The new service providers or service providers established by the existing well-organised and developed public operators of the EU country will offer new, better and more complete services and Croatian mail with ease in the market in the Republic of Croatia and will take away its position on the market. I think these are the things that should have been spoken of in this report, and in that sense I cannot support the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56014	Thank you. It's time for the honourable representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56015	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Only two important notes to me about this report, one thing I'll have to do again, provided the government's representatives listen to me. Data on the number of Internet users and territorial distribution, the possibility of using broadband internet is important not only because of the mere statistics, but because we find out how those who provide this service behave, or to dispute or prove that they concentrate on areas with a larger population, while those rural or less populated parts of Croatia do not have the opportunity to use this service. All the data you've given and used in the Report material, paint reports, when it comes to us, it looks about like this, it's a map of broadband distribution. I got a black card or Croatia in black. Don't do that anymore, I begged you last year, write down the county data, because when it's multiplied here in black white technology, we don't see any of it. So which part of Croatia is the most covered by broadband and which is the least. You can't read that from your paper. Because he's multiplied in black white paper and that's no problem writing it down. Last year, we discussed the topic and asked whether there is a possibility or whether you have had our proposals to influence private investors in providing these services not to pick cream but to force them to come to that part of Croatia where it is not so terribly interesting to give some service, but it is important that we give the citizens of Croatia the same chance to use broadband services. Let us not forget that this is also done in educational institutions, so schools in areas where such opportunities are not available cannot be used either by hospitals or health institutions. There is no comment on it, you did not give the data except the map, now the density from that map is impossible to read. And another area of consumer protection. That the number of complaints or complaints that came before you from 915 only increased to 930, if I read the table correctly, despite increasing the number of users, let's say only the internet from 2 million to 2.5 million if I'm not mistaken, does not mean that the satisfaction of the user is greater. But perhaps inefficiencies, slowness, and in your case, in solving the appeal cases, people are discouraged to speak to you or perhaps you are not available enough to the citizens, or perhaps they don't even know that the procedure can protect you from any right. I ask, for example, whether it is possible for European practice for service providers to commit to making a contract of mobile, fixed, telephony, internet or other services to refer to you as a state body providing protection on behalf of the State. Furthermore, you yourself have found that the emergence of new forms of services develops and new forms of consumer protection fraud, you pay great attention to this area. A misleading sale, I'd say, and misleading ads. Did you happen to initiate an ad analysis process that offers zero kuna phone calls per minute? Is it possible that someone is offering a zero kuna phone service per minute? And every day we witness such ads or ads and sales that someone offers zero kuna telephony per minute. I especially appeal to you here because it is about users where children often appear. Protection against certain content inaccessibility of children, cost limits or amounts. Do all operators, all service providers provide this service to users? And I'll finish the next one. All service providers shall identify the owner of the telephone line, device, connection and anything but the user. I had a chance to testify about several cases where the users of the apartment, the business space, had concluded a contract for a service, had to sign the contract for a year, because it was a condition of obtaining a service, but they were leaving, say, six months later. The payment obligation providers put on the owner because he had to be the signer of the contract for the service. By leaving, therefore, the operator remains with the contract and insists from the owner of the line to continue to comply with the contract and to pay the contractual obligation. I ask, is it possible that this is in accordance with European rules, that the service provider does not recognise the user but the owner, that it prevents the conclusion of a service contract with the user, rather than the owner who would take over the obligation or fulfil the contract by the end or the possibility of a contract for a shorter period of one year? Besides, why do contracts have to be minimal for a year or two? I asked you these questions because you do not only exist to control the control and protection of rights but one part of your job is to make a proposal, if I understand your report that creates Croatian legislation still needs to be corrected to make it better. So if you and the resolution of these 935 appeal cases have drawn certain conclusions that something should be changed in legislation or sublegal regulations, and for consumer protection to be even better, I would ask you to shape it in the form of a proposal. By reading the Chapter Consumer Protection, I suggest that you have been able to say a lot, write and point out not only to service providers who most often violate consumer rights, but to act preventively through legal or sublegal regulations to prevent this from happening in the future. I have a feeling something's been holding you back. Something or someone. And that's where you stayed unsaid. I want to provoke you to tell me, what's the problem? Why don't you name those donors who usually violate their rights? What to change? How do you change it to make consumer protection even bigger? Is there some kind of pressure on you from someone? Does someone pressure you not to go out with that information in front of the Croatian Parliament and point your finger at those who create the biggest mess, the biggest misleading offers, the biggest misleading offers and oblige consumers to use this service for a certain period of time, and it seems to me that there are no such legal rules in Europe. I would also like to ask an open answer and other more open proposals on consumer protection. Professionally, I'm not going to fight there, because I don't understand it, but the 935 complaints you've had are a large number compared to the money behind it, which is often wrongly taken by the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56016	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56017	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. .../Conversation disabled./... HACOM's been told enough in this debate. Maybe I should start with this one where my colleague Lesar stopped a little while ago. After reading this report my conclusion is almost similar to his report is correct in that part that it determines the situation. The connection this much, the service level this much, the deficiencies like this we are not satisfied with. And in that part, the report is correct. But I also have to admit that I don't like the fact that the report doesn't particularly say about those things that you yourself find insufficiently developed or that they're not good in one way or another. What is it that should change, and how can some things be improved? I have read again that article of the Law on Electronic Communications, and it seems to me that from this article of the law which prescribes your obligations, or in some way in a detour, it is very clear that you have the authority on the one hand and the obligation to propose and improve the situation. Because the market regulator may also have the best insight into what is happening on the market. So, on the one hand, whether it comes from individual consumer applications, or because of the very supervisory role that you have on the market, you simply know how things work. There are several examples of this. personally, I do not understand telecommunications and here I speak more as simply a citizen who is interested in the development of the Internet and the entire telecommunications structure because of its importance to other sectors and other activities, primarily in education, culture, science, tourism, etc. And you here are well aware in the report that we have a problem in, I say, the number of broadband connections, broadband Internet connections, or that we have insufficient distribution across regions. And somewhere in your annual plan and you write that you will continue to work on the further development of the broadband Internet. What I'd be interested in is how to think about doing it, what are the activities that are being taken. We've already heard here that some states, Finland a few days ago, have introduced access to the broadband Internet as a fundamental human right, even in the Constitution. I think that would otherwise be bad for Croatia, but well, here is the debate on the Constitution already ended a few weeks ago, but nevertheless it remains a very important goal. I think that's where it stays. And now the question is how are they encouraged and can at all encourage private market operators to pull the cable, so to put it simply, to a place where there is one house or where the infrastructure has to be drawn for only a few users for miles. Is there a possibility that the state itself part of the infrastructure that has already been put into service, that it might be subsidized to someone? So what are these activities that will lead to the fact that we have a wide-ranging Internet really widespread throughout the population. A similar situation, I think it's already been mentioned here and it's a matter of digital television, of switching to digital television. If I understand correctly by the end of this year, 4% of people, in the second part of 9, so somewhere around 5% of the population will not actually be digitally signalled. If there is a regulation that binding the television fee will be tied to, not with the possession of a television receiver but with the payment of an electricity bill, then it really doesn't make any sense that now people who can't even theoretically watch television because they're going to cancel the analogue signal, and digital ones won't have any, they're actually payment bonds. Maybe we should consider tying the fee, if we have to tie it to anything, to a digital receiver. And what's actually going to happen in that sense somewhere the government's obligation to have public information, etc., is to work somewhere on public television when somewhere on 5% of the territory, although I have to admit I don't know what 5% of the territory means, how many people in general, is there even a population there, who won't actually be able to watch television. And the third thing I want to say is a few things, it's about protecting consumers or end-users. I think somewhere and HACOM and the goal of what HACOM does should actually be, I think my colleague Bauk said it well, good availability, quality service and a good price for all of these services that you control to say so. It's a good thing you've created a new website. I just want to know if you have any information or how much our citizens know that if they have a dispute with an operator as a second-degree body, so to speak, they can contact you and they can do it via the website. And in that sense, I think that you as an agency should be a little more agile or clearer or more aggressive to go public and actually do some marketing for yourself, even if it means more work to you, that people simply know what opportunities are available to them. One average user who is actually further away from calling the customer service of a telephone operator, does not know. He or she would have to know that there is, in fact, another body more instance that can help resolve his or her objection, and in that sense I have one question. On page 57 of this original report is the first review of the structure of the solving of the items you have received and it says that you have received and the commission is assigned 841 items, that at the session is presented to this or that solved 570 items. I'm interested in what actually happened to the difference between the 841 items that came and the 570 that were presented or solved in one way or another. It's 270 objects of difference that I don't know are on hold for next year and they haven't come to order yet or what actually happened to them. It's on page 57 of the first report that was sent to us. And about that, another perhaps question or remark, the people we get, when the portability of a fixed mobile phone number is introduced, then for a time it was a rule that actually when you as a third party call that number that was transferred to another network, you get information that the number has been transferred to another network. This was quite important because here to say the situation of liberalisation of the market which is good they have tried and exploited in fact still operators with tariff packages which actually within the subscription generally have that this subscription money can be spent only within that own network. For example, if you are a T-COM subscriber in fixed phone, then those within your 150-minute package can only be spent on calls to some numbers, anything you call for numbers that are under other fixed operators that just doesn't get into that base. I think it's very unfair to users first, and secondly, since there's no information now that the number has been transferred to a network is worth the same thing for mobile telephony, people are often mistaken. For example, they have some kind of unlimited option on some kind of operator, so all calls to the number of one operator are covered, and when they're actually calling that number they don't even know that even though that number looks like it doesn't belong to that operator at first sight but to some completely different operator. I mean, the numbers transferred are almost $400,000 per data. I think it is quite important that, on the one hand, when we have already achieved the dynamics of the market and increased choice and quality, perhaps for the end-user, that we also have consumer protection on the other hand. The third callers then those numbers that have been transferred to other networks. I think that that provision that was, one rule that was worth a few months, that says that number was transferred to one or that network that you know in which tariff you're actually going to call, to introduce it back as a rule, or to order operators to actually have to have the same treatment because it's almost equal cost given the loop, that they have to have in equal treatment no matter what number they call, within their own or some other network. And the last thing I really want to say and maybe I want to hear more, and I would like to see it in some report, very important in the development of this entire market, especially, now I'm going back to the broadband internet, but what is now a much more frequent case and more users will have, is Internet traffic over mobile networks, so the given traffic that goes through mobile networks that are still very expensive in Croatia, and it seems to me that the price of service for better and greater use to say so to the broadband internet itself, and I hope that the rules introduced by the European Union for roaming will apply both in Croatia and because of our consumers not only because we are entering the European Union. So, the report is correct in the part where things are listed, but it would be good to complete it for years to come next year except for one step further in order for us as legislators but also for the government to know what to do in that operational section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56018	Thank you very much. We still have Mr. Zdenko Franic here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56019	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of HACOM. I would like to say just a few words about a very important part of your report regarding the protection against interference on page 45. By the time we arrive in the summer, we witness an inappropriate but common boost in TV and radio signals as well as an increase in mobile phone signals by neighbouring states. This traditionally coincides with the beginnings of the tourist season so that it is working this year so you can't spend your time on the Zagreb-Lipovac highway, there that on some parts you don't insert on mobile phone, a network of neighbouring countries. It is similar if you go hiking on Medvednica and on the Kameni svats there is already a signal of Slovenski. On the other hand, on the parts of the Adriatic coast, it is enough to cross the SV. You can't often catch national radio stations anymore, people on the coast are in the wind of TV signals, overpowered by Italian stations, as you have said in your report, and that you have sent 202 international applications. However, it does not say the fate of those applications. It is a real aggression on Croatian ether and, as I said, TV and radio signals from Croatian stations on certain parts of our country are simply unreachable. All this leads to huge material damage to citizens and to the state, as co-owners of HTV, Croatian Telecom, in some cases human lives are endangered, for example, sailors who cannot have their signals and all this leads to difficulties in the normal functioning of certain professions and services. It should be pointed out that all of this is contrary to international law, and in particular to the EBU European Broadcasting Union Convention, CNL standards, the International Commission from non-ionising radiation protection, and yesterday the Law on non-ionising radiation was discussed in the Assembly, so we could even say that this increased level of signal may even be questionable about human health. I believe that your agency should have strong support from both the foreign and European integration ministries, as it is international conventions that are the depositary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And let us ask ourselves how long will this faceless aggression against the Croatian ether and the loss of Croatian sovereignty with severe security, material, political, cultural, telecommunications and its consequences. I wish you successful work, but I want you to act more actively on this important segment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56020	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, Mr Miljenko Krivisek, the President of the Council, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56021	Mr. President, thank you very much. It would take a long time to answer your questions, so let me send you the answers in writing. All the things you've been praising us I've remembered, and all the questions you've tempted or asked me have been written down, so I believe I've written down all the questions and we'd give you a written answer to that. The only thing to answer now was the question of coverage of digital television and what will happen to those who do not get the signal of digital television, it is never possible to achieve 100% coverage by digital signal or analogue is anyway. That small percentage of uncovered inhabitants of Croatia will be able to receive a television or satellite signal or via the internet or cable, the payment of a television subscription will be regulated by the Law on Croatian Radio TV. For now, this subscription, the existing law, is related to the possession of the receivers, whether it will be related to the possibility of viewing that signal is not in our relevance, I don't know what to say right now. I thank you for your remarks and for your support with the report, I believe next year the report will be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56022	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. 13. Annual report on the work of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency for 2009. Proposer of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting in the opinion: an annual report on the work of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency for 2009 is accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by 94 votes for, five abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56025	Dear Mr. President, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs. Let me present a summary of this report by the National Foundation for Civil Society Development on its work in the past year, which actually presents the most important achievements, but also further challenges in providing systematic support for the development of civil society in the Republic of Croatia. In 2009, it was marked with several milestones that helped improve support for the development of civil society. The first IMPACT was opened by the European Centre for Intersectoral Cooperation in Zadar, which placed the Republic of Croatia on the map of Europe as the country with the biggest step in developing cross-sectoral cooperation among countries in the Southeast Europe region. The co-financing of European civil society organisations projects has been introduced, which have been approved to support from the European Union funds, thus increasing the competitiveness of our organisations and allowing for more quality withdrawal of funds from the European Union funds. The media campaign "Active in the Community" of all five programmes of the regional development of civil society in the Republic of Croatia has been successfully implemented, allowing the public to be further sensitive to the possibility of regional unification of the development of civil society organisations in Croatia and to enable the systematic positioning of civil society organisations in the Barcelona Union process for the Mediterranean through the establishment of a Croatian network for cooperation at Euromediteran. In 2009, nearly 37 million kunas were invested in 345 support and other forms of support to civil society organisations. But what makes a difference in this contribution to which the National Foundation affects social change is certainly the systematicity and diversity of its support. It is seen from a range of different forms of support from the financing of small civil initiatives, which solve problems in the community, through projects contributing to the democratisation and development of civil society, promotes and strengthens civil society organisations, which provide quality and reliable public services at local and regional level, strengthens the institutional and organisational development of associations, and equates the regional development of civil society in the Republic of Croatia, opens channels of direct influence of civil society from Croatia on the adoption of public policies at European level through... in Brussels, and supports programmes introducing a quality of action system in civil society organisations. [[You don't understand.]] This diversity is a wealth that sustains the diversity and richness of the activities of civil society organisations in our country, although our share in funding civil society is relatively small, means in the total resources that the state gives to civil society, we have a percentage of 5.6% and we are in the sixth place of support providers. However, with its various forms of support, the National Foundation has made it possible for a greater number of different types of civil society organisations to achieve the support they need in order to act for the common good. The success or achievement of the past year has also been continued and continued to support the implementation of the Regional Development Programme and the strengthening of the ability of civil society organisations at local and regional level, the decentralised funding model, and the further improvement of the transparent allocation of support through the publication and preparation of the Codebook itself, which is actually helping local and national officials to be more transparent in the allocation of funds to civil society organisations in our country. In the past year, the National Foundation has been recruited to implement the quality of action system according to the international standard ISO-9001 2008 as the only public institution with that certificate in the field of granting financial support to civil society organisations. The 2009 Annual Report brings together several newspapers in substance. First of all, statistics are introduced which provide a comparative representation of the total number of citizens per county with the number of registered associations compared to the number of approved support from the national foundation and the total amounts approved for their implementation, parts of the large research carried out by the National Foundation in 2009 are transferred to a sample of nearly 800 associations that have achieved financial support from the state or local budget in 2008 in order to establish the state of civil society organisation in the Republic of Croatia in the last year. The research included donor organisations, as well as the general public, i.e. citizens and media employees where they were questioned, in fact perception, their perception of civil society organisations. At the time of recession and the global financial crisis, it is important to note that, thanks to the investments of the national foundation in support of civil society organisations, the employment relationship for a total of 811 persons, i.e. the inclusion of a total of 3 000 567 volunteers and volunteers, and the times ahead will require both civil society organisations and us who provide support for the development of civil society in the Republic of Croatia, a high level of proactiveity, that is what awaits us in this and next year, proactiveism, innovation, openness to change and solidarity. It seems to me that we've forgotten some of those terms. In doing so, we need to work intensively to re-connect with citizens, i.e. the real needs of citizens, and society, because the well-being of citizens and citizens in all forms of social life and at all levels of local, regional and national should be the focus of our action, as this will contribute to further democratisation and development of civil society in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56026	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. Do the Government's representatives want to further explain their opinion? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. They're clubs first. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56027	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, respected representatives of the Foundation and Government. The Foundation in the Republic of Croatia has an extremely long tradition. Until the foundation after World War II has been shut down. The beginning of the foundation in Croatia is tied to the Catholic church. During the 15th and 16th centuries they were active... and the scholarships, and the archbishop Juraj Haulik of Zagreb founded a foundation for support of his dioceses in 1860. [[You don't understand.]] In the 19th century, a large number of foundations were established to support education and culture, and their purpose was to directly finance a particular school, or teachers of a particular school, as well as to support poor and successful students, as well as to reward and provide poor children with clothes, shoes, medicines and a warm meal. In Croatia there were also development of foundations for charity, public trusts for municipal purposes, foundations for promoting economic activity, pension funds, and health development foundations. The foundation has just been established by the first educational, social, and health institutions. In the square of Ban Josip Jelačić, there used to be a treasure hospital. The funds were founded by prominent and powerful citizens, and in smaller places across the country, and they were transporters of modernization and occupancy for the common good. At that time, while caring for the common good considered an honorable obligation, it was not rare for more wealthy families of the middle class to donate a percentage of the annual income to a trust and it happened that, after death, they would leave a higher amount or real estate. Unfortunately, today, the situation in Croatia is very different from the one before World War II, although some of the old foundations have been resuscitating and registering new ones. Although the beginning of the 1990s comes the experience of the foundation, the social framework is not an incentive for their development. For example, in Croatia, the current scholarship in the section in which untaxed limits are treated mainly as the second income and the share of income, tax and special tax in the net scholarship is between 31% and 44%. By encouraging philanthropy, volunteering, empathy and solidarity, we strengthen citizens' engagement and social cohesion and create a positive environment for the development of society towards greater social sensitivity and justice in the distribution of goods. As recently published in the media, many worldly rich people like Bill Gates or Warren Buffett have invested significant amounts in projects that aim to help build a fairer and more peaceful world. In the construction of such a world, the role of civil society is great, and for its development there are extremely important foundations, as financial support enables and improves the work of NGOs. Philanthropy and humanitarianity are characteristics of societies where individuals focus not only on themselves and their own well-being but on cooperation, compassion, empathy, and concern for others. In such a society, there is room for everyone, and one who, because of physical, mental, mental, or other limitations, is on his edge and therefore needs help to get involved in such circumstances. Therefore, the role of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, whose 2009 Work Report is today, is large, since the financial resources are channelled into programmes and projects that aim not only to improve the situation of certain groups of citizens but also to address the problem which contributes to improving the quality of life of all Croatian citizens, i.e. the general good. The club of the representatives of the HSS will support this report, which describes all activities of the associations that the Foundation financially supports and thus enables them to operate in society. The report shows that different forms of action are supported from small citizens' initiatives aimed at addressing specific problems in their community, as well as projects that contribute to further development of democracy and civil society in Croatia. It is evident that, through the strengthening of the capacities of associations, they are also recognized as quality providers of certain public services, while non-profit media projects open that space to the public. Connecting between civil society organisations as well as international co-operation is possible, the regional development of civil society in Croatia is uniform, and research projects on civil society development are supported. It is particularly important to highlight the opening of the "IMPACT" – the European Centre for Intersectoral Cooperation in Zadar and the fact that civil society organisations from Croatia have been given the opportunity to influence the adoption of public policies at European level. Co-financing of approved projects for 2 European programmes, Europe for citizens and cooperation at Euromediteran has enabled greater competence of Croatian associations as well as greater withdrawal of funds from European funds in the pre-accession period. Although it is only 5.6% of the trust funds allocated to investment associations, it is still significant because of the various forms of support that enables a larger number of different organisations to operate. In 2009, it was approved for 345 projects of just over 36 million kuna, which is 4 million kuna less than in 2008. So we would ask the principal to comment on these results and investments. Finally, it is not important that a total of 811 persons were employed on the basis of the fund's investment in support of associations and 3 000 567 volunteers and volunteers were included. The results of research, assessment of the situation and development of civil society organisations in the Republic of Croatia in 2009 were carried out according to the criteria of the selected sample of associations, showing that dozens of associations had no space at all, no computer and no printer, and a quarter had no telephone line available. Half of them do not have a single employee, and the main problems are considered to be a third of the financing by the business sector, as well as the termination of funding of certain areas, insufficient financial support for smaller associations and poor tax policy. Even 3/4 of the association believes that civil society organisations are not sufficiently involved in the EU negotiations process and that they are insufficiently affecting the creation of state policy. On the other hand, the survey also covered public perception and showed that more than half of the surveyed citizens have neither trust nor trust in the work of the associations. Unfortunately, it happens that in the media associations are apostrophe like those who because they live on budget money do not want and cannot criticise those who assign these money to them, so it reduces their credibility which strengthens the presence of a non-trust in Croatian society anyway. It may also contribute to the fact that the Civil Society Development Fund has a government's office for associations, and it becomes the impression that the government is doing the part of the work that should be done by civil society organisations themselves. Civil society thus hears that the foundation should improve co-operation with the ministries, especially the Ministry of Health and Social Care, so that the programmes do not overlap, and spend the funds irrationally. Social and health institutions, according to some representatives of associations, are quite untrustworthy of them especially when it comes to their professional competences, and may be able to overcome the foundation if they call competitions that institutions in partnership with associations could report. Civil society organisations are undoubtedly still in need of support, not only to maintain the existing level of activity but also to develop because they have so far shown that they want to and can change this society for the better. In fact, the impression is that civil society in Croatia is increasingly less noticeable in the public and that fewer citizens are ready for such engagement. In transition countries, curricula in secondary and especially higher education institutions has been shown to encourage the development of civil society. It is a long-term project and its stronger development will depend on the views, values and efforts of younger generations. However, the main word is the development of awareness of volunteering, i.e. the promotion of volunteering through the development of activistism, empathy, solidarity and social skills that citizens will know about, address or participate in solving problems in the local community in which they live. In this sense, it is a very good foundation initiative that awards the School – a friend of the community for the most innovative models of the development of volunteering of pupils and pupils of primary and secondary schools, where the monetary part of the prize is a necessary help in their implementation. The Together for Better Award for Participation Democracy in Units of Local and Regional Self-Government, which is given as an incentive to increase civil society's influence in the process of adopting various forms of public policy, is also a positive contribution to further strengthening democracy. Finally, I will say that the first European Foundation Week is marked from 31 May to 4 June of this year. In Croatia, it was marked on June 1st, unfortunately without a representative of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development despite the fact that the topic of the round table was "The Challenges of Foundation Development and their Contribution to Croatia's EU accession", and we hope that this will change next year. The HSS representative club will support the adoption of the 2009 National Foundation for Civil Society Development Report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56028	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56029	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Director of the Foundation, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club has carefully considered the annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2009 which was referred to by the Parliament to the Foundation Management Board and on which the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave a positive opinion and which we will support and accept in the HDZ Club. Before we move to the report, let me remind ourselves, and on this occasion we also find that the Copenhagen criteria for joining the Union stresses among others that the power of civil society is an indicator of the vitality of a modern democracy. Therefore, the political criteria for the stability of institutions guaranteeing democracy, the rule of law, human rights and respect and protection of minorities, the development and promotion of civil society in all countries, i.e. the achievement of the minimum need for the level of civil society development, and indeed necessary for all. In 2003, the Republic of Croatia introduced a new model of organisational structure that will enable the immediate promotion of the further development of civil society, the establishment of a National Foundation for Civil Society Development, which primarily has its primary objective and purpose of promoting and developing civil society in the Republic of Croatia. The annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2009 is otherwise the 6th consecutive review of the achievements and achievements of the Foundation for Promotion and Support of Civil Society in Croatia. In particular, I would like to begin by commending the importance of the comments made by parliamentary representatives and MPs since last year when we discussed the report on the work of the foundation for 2008, it was more of a report on the work and functioning of the foundation than on the state of the civil sector. This report can no longer be said because the 2009 report contains a chapter of the State of Development Indicators of civil society organisations in which the results of the research were given, an assessment of the state of development of the Civil Society Organization in the Republic of Croatia in 2009 in which 717 associations were surveyed and we received interesting indicators. Of these 717 associations, dozens of municipalities have their own space to carry out their activities. Less than a tenth has space in its possession, a third of the space rents. A dozen associations don't own a computer, two-thirds have internet access, and three-quarters have their own website. More than two-thirds of the associations focus on all citizens as users of their activities. A little less than one-fifth should be highlighted surveyed associations as direct users listed persons with disabilities and young primary users are ten uninformed associations. The most common area of activities of the associations covered by research is culture, followed by the social area. Half of the 717 organizations don't have any employees. A third employs between one and two people, while every fifth association has three to five employees. People employed in associations are more often women than men, more often middle-aged than younger or older. In 2008, dozens of associations had only one source of funding, and most often state administration bodies, as well as local and (regional) self-government. In almost a third of the organizations volunteering work is practiced once a week, and a fifth of the cases are volunteered daily. The presidents or executive directors of the association are more often men than women. Two-thirds of them have higher or higher education rates, and a third of them have Soviets. Compared to the basic sources of income from 2006 to 2008, there was a trend in the growth of the share of associations that the authorities of the state administration are the primary financiers. In 2008 the indicative revenue sources for more than a third of the companies surveyed ranged up to 100 thousand kuna, and in the same number range ranged between 100 000 and half million. The amount of revenue is more than half a million kuna, according to a fifth of the associations, the largest of which is for understandable reasons for those in the Zagreb region. These include interesting data from this survey that say that a third of the associations believe that the state is uninterested in NGOs and underestimates their importance, and a large majority of the organisations 87.9% of respondents say that local authorities did not make their work impossible. Likewise, associations point out that they cooperate more with local media than with the media at national level. Interesting results from the public perception survey on the work of the Civil Society Organisation carried out on 629 citizens and 106 media employees, 22.7% of whom were surveyed, said they had not heard the expression of associations, NGOs or the Civil Society Organisation, and were therefore excluded from further research. 52.4% of respondents show that they have neither trust nor trust in the work of associations. The surveyed citizens are most likely to believe that there are up to a thousand associations in Croatia, and there are more than 40,000. We believe that the results of this research show that there is a certain space in which both the associations and the National Foundation for Civil Society Development should work on further creating conditions for improving the working conditions of the associations in the interests of the users of the activities of the associations, as well as a clearer perception of the importance of the role of the civil sector in further democratisation of society. According to the report, the work of the foundation in 2009 marked several major milestones. First of all, the IMPACT European Sector for Cross-Sectoral Cooperation in Zadar was established, with the Republic of Croatia positioned on a map of Europe as the country with the greatest step in developing cross-sectoral cooperation between the countries of the South East European region. The co-financing of European civil society organisations projects approved by support from European sources has been introduced, thus increasing the competitiveness of our organisations and enabling more quality withdrawal of funds from EU funds. A successful media campaign, active in the community of all 5 programmes for the regional development of civil society in the Republic of Croatia, has been implemented which further sensitised the public to the possibility of regional unification of the development of civil society organisations in Croatia, although the map on page 92 of this report shows that it can and the sea better, because there is a map of the county, approved projects or even candidates. But when we see that of the 20 counties and the city of Zagreb there are also counties that have run for office, but they are not approved for any project, then even by regions there is inequality. It means that there is a need for further improvement in this area. A systematic positioning of the Civil Society Organisation in the "Barcelonian Process: Union for the Mediterranean" through the establishment of a Croatian cooperation network at Euro-Mediterranean is enabled. During 2009, the Fund implemented support programmes for civil society development through financial support, support for recognitions and awards, through cooperation, partnership, through the development of cross-sectoral international cooperation, as well as through information and publishing. The transparency of this report contributes to and statistics of approved support in competitions and calls through cooperation and partnership in 2009 from which it is apparent according to the register of associations held at the Ministry of Administration, of a total of 36,000 212 associations reported 835 associations. 247 support has been approved, and support for 86 programmes and support through cooperation and partnership 21 is continued through years of support, which means that the total foundation has been approved by 345 support of 34 million kuna. Although the share of the National Foundation in the total allocations to civil society organisations in 2009 is only 5.6%, according to the government's Office of Association data, and the foundation is located in the 6th place of support to civil society organisations in the size of that share. We believe that there is no reason or place of dissatisfaction because last year the foundation had 43 million 378 thousand kunas of which 38.8 million kunas were from gambling revenues. At the time of recession and the global financial crisis, civil society received noticeable support from the funds of the foundation through which it was employed, i.e. 811 persons, i.e. the involvement of 3567 volunteers and volunteers. Finally, the motto of the Foundation "is important to have support", I hope from all things there is visible support from which the Croatian Democratic Community Club also gives the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development and from the above mentioned club of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2009 and vote for its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56030	Thank you. It is next to the HNS-HSU Club, the distinguished representative of Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56031	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Director, Representative of the Government. There is another report ahead of us, I would say the central foundation that directly affects the development of civil society in the Republic of Croatia. Although it is a foundation that is not the only one in the Republic of Croatia, it is definitely the only one of these profiles. It already has several years of very solid activity, well-structured work, but what is most important of all, it has high-set and very defined, I would say sophisticated criteria, as well as the procedure and practice of distribution of funds that are social resources. So this is public money, so it's not private. In this respect, the last few years have also been working as a form for which many local self-governments, units of local self-government that have developed awareness of the need to give for the development of civil society in the local community, are trying to act. Therefore, taking over these criteria and in particular the procedures actually contribute to the standardisation of the general public money distribution process. Although counterpart Petir says that in the Republic of Croatia there is a foundation with a very long tradition which is true, it is unfortunately not as developed today as we would like or what the needs of modern Croatian society really are. Because the total number of trusts and trustable assets on the one hand, and on the other hand, the total number of resources, or the amount of resources allocated, are not even roughly proportionate practices, so good customs and, on the other hand, rooted, but standard, I would also say traditional ways of helping civil society in, say, the average country of the European Union. We are still not satisfied and we cannot be satisfied with how many private people are actually asked, competitions with the public in giving and helping civil society, and above all those in need, but also the development of those segments of civil society that are underdeveloped particularly in regionalisation, in the development of a civil scene in economically weaker areas, in the war affected areas, and in, I would say, the border regions of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, the owners of private capital are mostly the most recent people and people who made great money by tycoon privatisation, and they played the last hole in the general good. It was mostly personal well-being, staying, and it's probably going to be one single thought of guidance where there's not much room to help those in need. Not only practice but also one general rule suggests that for each kuna of state money, the civil sector is able to produce value five times higher. So, what the state can do by its nature as an administrative, bureaucratic structure cannot do for a whole series of reasons sufficiently efficiently and quickly it is able to make civil society or civil society sector because it is otherwise motivated, otherwise organised, invests much more free work, much more creativity, and of course the results are far greater. In this respect, every smart country, no matter how much and how much development of the civil sector itself, is seeking to invest public funds in that country, but also in all possible ways to encourage and then in different ways to stimulate certain tax reliefs and other benefits and private capital to take a part of the general, public, common needs or needs of marginal groups, or the needs of groups that are depressed for any reason. It is good that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has held that rhythm in the last few years and that the big step that was made in 2000 on that famous declaration, later in 2003, and by establishing this foundation, shortly before that, by setting up a Council on Civil Society Development, that it has therefore maintained that direction and therefore continues to move towards building a partnership relationship with civil society, and one of the bypasses, one of the roads through which it can best be achieved is quality, transparent, solid financing or defining the conditions under which public money will be spent. I would personally like the foundation to participate in the total amount distributed from public sources with more than 5.6% how much it is now, because it seems to me that in some ministries and after all years and despite its positive practice, despite all the codes that have been passed still a great deal of damage or a handful of the distribution system and there are some ministries certainly an exception. But some who continue to be very proud of the deadlines, of the competitions. It is still happening in the 9th month to open a tender for the allocation of funds in the current financial year, which is extremely inadmissible, which is in some way humiliating. Because all these people in the ministry have all their own financial size in December of the year before that. So, in 2003, we managed to move that standard to April at the latest, unfortunately, was not maintained. In such circumstances, it is not easy for civil society associations to function because they nominally count on some means that they do not even know if, when they will get them and then it turns out they have to spend them in two months. It's not serious. It's not professional and the foundation has set itself up quite differently, quite differently structured its competitions. She tracks them differently, follows them differently, values them differently. In any case, it can be said that these forty million kunas are the total annual allocations of funds in 2009 almost 3 million less than in 2008, and probably this year it will also be a little more thin because these are the total budget opportunities, and the public sources from which the funds come into the trust are somewhat reduced, so these data from these 40 million kunas that are well structured competitions and programmes that may look very large at first sight, and in fact the need for the development of civil society in the Republic of Croatia can be carefully targeted with a planned approach where we are thin, where we need most in the organisational sense, in institutional support, in the training of key regional networks, regional players in the field of civil scenes, so they are further service in the development of the local subnet. The operation of over 4 partner regional foundations is the operation of the so-called ". regional networks, which is also one of the successes of the foundation itself, because it was it that encouraged the regional networking of civil organisations in a particular sector, which is a big deal. And this last thing that happened to us, which is the establishment of the IMPACT, can be viewed as steps in the direction of a stable, permanent, long-term sustainable system, and now it would be necessary to do everything that the IMPACT as one space that the foundation has completely restored, redecorated and put into function of a multi-media center is actually being used as much as possible. This is one capacity given to the management foundation, which is actually very high values and every day the use of this centre can significantly help in many subsectors of civil society to improve communication, to learn, to network, to transfer different skills and practices. But also every day the use of IMPACT has missed the opportunity to improve overall opportunities. In that sense, I wish it had already been built, I don't know anything about it, so I can't say that communication has already been built towards a whole series of associations so that they can find space within the IMPACT to act, or to exploit its capacities, or perhaps even in the so-called "IMPACT". semi-commercial purposes, i.e. to cover the costs of the IMPACT as a centre for the needs of their projects. Anyway, now we've circled one story. So we have the National Foundation, we have the regional foundations, we have the regional networks, we have the IMPACT, and now it's just a matter of awareness that enough resources are being allocated from year to year. I think that the trust property now at $42 million is quite enough and it is now a strong foundation that does not threaten any disturbance in the event that the state has to go to its budget items for one or two years. The trust won't fail because of that. So it is very important now that, in the years ahead, we strategically assess what the areas of the civil sector are still underdeveloped, where there is still not enough communication between the government's private and non-governmental space and that these funds are then channelled. And those associations that have already been helped through the so-called institutional programmes, which have also been used by institutional programmes for several years, which have now been trained, strengthened, strong and able to establish further partnerships. So, to replace these lists slowly with new, so that such associations are more than they are now because we now seem to have a certain impression that the same associations are constantly emerging, and in fact we forget that these associations are all sectoral operators and that this is not a trend or fashion issue, that this year is one, up to the year other than that it is one structure that has to be put in place as long as possible to make this subsector more stable, so that smaller organisations can rely on these solid resistance points and make their contribution to the development of civil society. As regards the programme report and the financial report of the Foundation for 2009 the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retirement estimates that it is correct, that it is very, very detailed, transparent and that among other things, the results of the research that some colleagues have already quoted give us some new light on the general situation in which the foundation operates. Therefore, the HNS Club will support the 2009 programme and financial report of the foundation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56032	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56033	Honored Mr. Vice President, Ms. Cvetana Plavša Matic, the Honorable Prime Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. The National Foundation for Civil Society Development is a small, agile, but extremely well-run trust. So one, one social organization from which many could learn in the private and social sectors. The National Foundation, which was established year after year in 2003, extends its activity and an extremely transparent, clear, informative report submitted to the Croatian Assembly, represents not only its work to the Parliament but also to the general public. The National Foundation has done a great deal to encourage volunteer, philanthropy, good human relations and has generally encouraged the growth and development of the civil sector in the Republic of Croatia in a way that was simply not possible before the formation of the foundation itself. Unfortunately, the Parliament, in some way, is a trap for these activities, although the Voluntary Law has been passed, this law is somewhat due to its selectivity, in fact, to some kind of barrier to the faster development of the civil sector and volunteering as such. The Civil Society Development Fund has also done a great deal on the development of social capital, as a resource that facilitates the access of individuals to social, economic or natural resources, as well as social capital as a binding material that helps people to put their other capital, such as financial, physical, humane, into a function of improving the general good, as something that is slightly in this cruel time and forgotten. Unfortunately, the Parliament did not make much on this segment, and as I have already mentioned, it could also consider some amendments to the Voluntary Law and even some other laws, in order to intensify activities to promote and improve social capital as a yet underused resource in the Republic of Croatia. It should be noted in this context that today in the countries of Western democracy and over 70% of the value of some companies rests on non-financial assets, so what we can call exactly social capital in a broader context. Under the conditions of the crisis in which the Republic of Croatia has gone deeper and more and more tonnes, volunteering would simply have to be seen in a new light, and better conditions should be created for progress and further development of volunteering in order to intensify this segment in growth, promotion and... gross social product. [[You don't understand.]] And in this segment is an extremely interesting way in which the foundation has joined the process of approving its projects, civil society organisations. Namely, in forms that potential leaders must fill in when reporting projects or requests for support, civil society organisations that propose or seek support are also scheduled to provide a projection of the number of volunteer hours to be spent on such projects and activities. Quality indicators or some other indicators are also envisaged in which the effectiveness of these projects can be subsequently evaluated, after their implementation, and it is very little necessary to assess from that the total contribution of all these projects financed by the foundation and to the gross social product, and ultimately to assess very explicitly and how few, therefore, the activity of the foundation itself, so barely 20 people who act, contributes to the exit of the Republic of Croatia from this crisis in which we have found ourselves. The Foundation has also done a great deal to decentralise its work, so projects are now approved by regions, because the fact is that local people of local communities know their needs best, but also the potentials and in this context should certainly be mentioned and commended as a European centre for cross-sectoral cooperation. This report presented to the Croatian Parliament is very, very detailed and gives an overview of all projects, as well as a review of the material resources that the Foundation has engaged in their implementation. Compared to last year's report, this report has more information on the overall impact of the projects and their success, and we can say that one analysis of the situation of the civil sector is given although not complete, since nevertheless the foundation is largely aware of the projects it itself is financing. The Foundation has a very well-developed evaluation mechanism for these projects, and it is often the case that civil society organisations, some of them very well-known, simply do not get funds for their projects, because projects are ranked according to success, on the very basis of very well-developed criteria. And here we can say that there is neither touchable nor untouchable and that the foundation primarily cares about quality. The Foundation can undoubtedly still be with the fact that it has itself encouraged its action in the sense that it has introduced a quality management system according to the international ISO-9000 standard, setting an example for civil society organisations in such a way that they have seen themselves with the help of projects from the foundation itself to introduce a quality assurance system, so-called quality assurance system. SOKNO or quality assurance system for non-profit organisations, which is based on PQASSO Practical Quality Assurance System for Small Organizations, which enables a flexible approach to quality development in civil society organisations aimed at user satisfaction. So, in the broader context of the entire social community. With a broader context, it should be said that the SDP club believes that the institutions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia including, of course, the Croatian Parliament should do much more to promote the civil sector, civil society and volunteer work. Further efforts should be made to intensify those activities to make greater use of social capital, promote and remove from Croatian consciousness those last remnants of the rest of the ideas which unfortunately were present until recently, that civil society associations are in fact some interference with the normal functioning of Croatian institutions, Croatian society, that civil society associations are some prosecutors and some or something like that. Just a few years ago, we remember that labeling of the type of confused people, the disruptors, the mutators, the headless, the dilettans, the cattle of the tiny tooth and the sold soul, which was baptized and worshiped by members of civil society and civil society. And the foundation has just given a lionic part of its work to contribute that such a thing in Croatian society never happens again. As I said, the foundation introduced by introducing ISO:9001, the quality management system itself set itself high criteria that are constantly held, because here we are already entering I think in the third or fourth year when the ISO system has to be rechecked or those quality indicators are such that the foundation adheres to them in all segments. So, for example, it can be an example to state and private institutions in a way that the foundation as its IT system uses LYNOKS, uses OPEN OFFICE as an alternative but high quality, and on the other hand a free information system and a platform that is extremely high quality and nothing lags behind expensive software packages paid by government institutions. Here, this is another perhaps way or example in which state institutions, at least some, could achieve in this crisis very large and significant savings. In conclusion, the Civil Society Development Foundation has been extremely successful in developing social capital as a paradigm of social trust and social networks that contribute to the coordinated and cooperative work of people for the common benefit. Social capital also enables different groups to connect on the basis of common interests and enables them to warn of different irregularities and deviations in society. Here, let's remember this unfortunate Warsaw street. Social capital is a driving tool for the development of civil society as salt on the body of democracy. An organization from social networks operating in space between private spheres, economy and state. The SDP Club will, as I said at the outset, be happy to support this report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, congratulating it on the successful work so far and wanting it to be as successful in the future and to be able to impose itself on the private sector as possible donors to finance projects that it manages and manages so successfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56034	Thank you. And we have one individual application, distinguished representative Karolina Leakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56035	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Plavša Matic, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a very short one, but I would still like to say a few things actually about the work report for last year. Of course, I support the report and support the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. I consider it an extremely important instrument for the development of civil society, for supporting organisations and promoting active citizenship. When it was founded, it means 7 years ago, in 2003, it pointed out 6 points for its goals, and I would mention today in particular 3 which I do not consider to be realized by the dynamics that would have been expected in view of therefore seven years of action. These include increasing public impact and visibility of civil society organisations' activities, then developing social entrepreneurship and employment in the non-profit sector, and increasing civil society's influence in public policy-making processes. I believe that these 3 objectives should be increased by the engagement of the foundation and that, in fact, more work should be done to increase the impact of civil society organisations in public policy-making processes. It's very, very important. I would also refer to the results of the research on the assessment and state of development of civil society organisations that the foundation carried out and published in its very interesting annual report. They show that the civil society organisation deals mainly with education and social policy activities, and that the most rarely carry out activities such as mediation and monitoring the implementation of public policies and the work of government institutions, which I also do not consider particularly good, so I find it worrying that in fact very few civil society organisations are engaged in on the basis of public policies and the work of government institutions. In this context, I would also like to express concern that the national foundation participates in the funding of civil society organisations' programmes with only 5.6% and is only 6th in the 5th place behind the 5th ministry which has more resources than the national foundation. I don't think that was the point when the foundation was founded and I'd like to know why that amount was so low. I would also like to point out that civil society associations point out as major problems in their work under-financing by the business sector, termination of funding of certain areas and insufficient financial support for smaller associations, and poor tax policy. A third of Croatian associations believe that the state is not interested in NGOs and that it underestimates their importance, we have heard it today. The associations are also not satisfied with the slow exchange of information with state institutions because of the large and slow administration. I find it particularly interesting that three-quarters of the associations believe that civil society organisations are not sufficiently involved in the process of negotiations with the European Union and have insufficient influence on the creation of state policy. Certainly during the period ahead of us, which is the end of negotiations for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, civil society associations can and must play a much more important role in informing citizens and citizens about what membership brings. In any case, the media also play this very important role, and associations are just pointing out that they cooperate more, better and better at local than at national level with the media. And that's actually something that we also need to worry about because public television is responsible for promoting the development of civil society, i.e. the culture of dialogue I would say. On the other hand, it is interesting that we can also be concerned that citizens and citizens are not actually informed enough about what associations in Croatia are doing. So, they most believe that associations operate in the field of human rights and humanitarian action, and more than half of the citizens and citizens actually who are... your research states that there is no trust in civil society organisation. In any case, these are results that we may not have expected, perhaps even you didn't expect them and show that in this field we actually need to work much more on informing and awarenessing citizens. I also addressed these recommendations that you received from the Institute of Public Finance, which was conducted by research on the possibilities of creating an incentive tax judiciary for the development and operation of civil society organisations and made some recommendations. So I'd like to mention just a few of them and ask you to comment on whether something's going on in that field and if you have any specific suggestions that you've made or if you're going to direct them to the departments in charge. The Institute therefore considers that it would be desirable by special regulation to regulate the status of civil society organisations, which are established with the aim of carrying out activities for the general good and organisations established to meet the needs of their members. They believe that the systematic arrangement of the status of organisations acting for the common good would bring multiple positive effects. I therefore believe that it is necessary to clearly establish criteria for obtaining the status of the general welfare organisations from which the right to certain tax benefits will arise. And by allowing other and tax benefits to such organisations, a double purpose would be achieved. It encourages and facilitates the operation of these organisations, with public authorities at all levels denying part of tax revenues, while at the same time performing public affairs in the fields of culture, sport, education, social care and the like which should otherwise be carried out and financed by public authorities. They also warn that one way to promote philanthropy could be to enable taxpayers to direct part of their tax liability to a particular non-governmental organisation acting for general good or having the status of a general good organisation. And in the end, just one more note. I would like to see in the next report several projects from culture, environmental and education for democracy, and of course I would like to see it all in the framework of education programmes in our school system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56036	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to say an additional closing statement? Yeah. esteemed Tsvetana Plavša Matić Foundation Manager. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56037	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. A few words just in terms of thanks for this constructive debate and answers some of the questions that have been asked. The fact is that regarding the first issue of co-operation with the ministries, it is a fact that the foundation is carefully creating its tenders to avoid any duplication with competitions and funds allocated from various ministries or government institutions. And this cooperation is very well achieved through the coordination conducted by the Association Office, meaning all bodies that approve the funds, and there certainly is no duplication in the sense that we have the same competitions, the same areas and that we finance the same programmes with the same money. I also agree with the proposals that further work should be done to balance the regional spread of our support provided by the foundation. And in this context, the competitions that we have prepared in this year have been made so that in some situations we have even made positive discrimination that the associations from Zagreb can not report on some of the competitions, but we are giving opportunity to all other regions and counties to report these competitions. Just as we have introduced new topics in competitions related to the development of social capital, the development of volunteering and support to say "small associations", although I do not like sharing associations in small and large. I think they're all big, but maybe they don't have enough experience in their work. The issues related to these strategic objectives of increasing the public impact of civil society organisations in the process of adopting and monitoring public policy implementation are the subject of this year's competition. One of the competitions that we will launch in the segment of democratisation and civil society development, because, based on the results of these surveys and our monitoring over the past few years, we have concluded that we need one area where we will further motivate and support organisations to work on these segments related to the monitoring of public policies in the implementation segment, but also in the implementation segment and so that these organisations must be networked. It means that it is important now in this process of Croatia's accession to the European Union that our organisations prepare themselves in time for a more challenging environment that will be set before them by the European Union and all those funds that will be available to us because they will seek networking, networking, and not just one organisation to act. So you'll see, we've published this calendar of our competition announcements and a call for a statement of interest, a significant twist we're doing this year, and I hope it'll be visible from the report that we're going to present to you next year. In terms of social entrepreneurship and employment, we also organised together with the British Council two very valuable seminars, a three-day seminar for all organisations with institutional support in order to target them more and give them more information, knowledge and skills to launch social entrepreneurship, or to co-finance some of their activities, because the funds from the state budget and from gambling will be less and less in the coming years. And it is very important to prepare in time to ensure a quality continuation of the work of civil society organisations through various forms of social entrepreneurship and self-financing. Why are we in sixth place by the size of our funding? It is simply because the Regulation on criteria for the distribution of gambling places us in 4th place, but this total data prepared by the Association Office does not only include games of chance but also funds from the state budget and local budgets. So with simple statistics and mathematics, we came to the sixth place in that share. As far as public influence is concerned, there are also important our non-profit media projects where we open this space to the public and we support civil society organisations through radio shows, TV shows that we finance through the Internet portals are more present in public space and in simply this one debate and the creation of opinions, i.e. giving quality information to citizens so that they can create their own opinion in relation to some of the social processes that are happening in Croatia. The results of the research, i.e. the studies that we ordered from the Institute of Public Finance, gave us the basis to open a public debate on this subject together with the Office for Associations and the Civil Society Development Council, because I think it is extremely important, to see if we will need the law, although it is the recommendation of the Institute that, through the criteria, we will be able to make a significant difference between organisations operating for the common good and those who have established themselves to satisfy the interests of our members. So the public debate is on the move, and I hope that in the autumn, the story about it will come to light because it is time to tell what we have in the register of associations where, I say in the same basket and associations that provide shelters for women and children victims of violence and club smokers are in the same legal position, a tax situation which is not a practice in other European countries. As for these different forms of projects that we support and areas, we also make sure that the projects we support have to be linked to democratisation of the development of civil society, so if they are from culture and thus contribute they will be financed not because they are from culture or environmental protection but because they contribute to further democratisation of the development of civil society, leaving the competent ministries to finance projects that fall within their domain. Here's my thanks for the debate. We'll respect everything that's possible. Here are some things we have already arranged in these very competitions that will be launched on 20 August of this year and I believe that this will be a new boost and new support for civil society organisations in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56038	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. This will end for today, and tomorrow morning we will continue the 9.30 session with the 6th item of the agenda Report on the final report on elections and the amount of funds spent for election promotion, local elections in 2009, the applicant State Audit Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-07-0.u56039	We move to the 2009 Annual Report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. Proposer of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting in the conclusion: an annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2009 is accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was reached by a majority of votes, 90 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against. Of course, you can hold sessions and put on the agenda of the points that are there, and in terms of when we will discuss this, we will consult and decide. Thank you. We move to - Report on the final election reports and the level of relatives spent on election promotion – Local elections 2009. The applicant is the State Audit Office. This report was submitted by the State Audit Office pursuant to Article 11. The State Audit Act. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Ms. Šima Krasic, chief state auditor. Here you go.
