ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64533	Thank you very much, Mr. President, honourable MPs and counsellors, ladies and gentlemen. A few words about the pension fund report. It's been prepared and sent to procedure for a long time, and now it's up to you. I would just like to say, as far as this project is concerned, that since it is a well-studden mechanism which has been spinning since 2006 under the Retirement Fund Act since 2005 and the compensation payments to pensioners have been going on a regular basis without delay in accordance with the plans, there have been no specific activities that should be discussed in particular. The most intense activities take place at the time of payment, i.e. during the period when compensation payments are paid. So in 2009, we had a relatively peaceful year in which the pension fund was dealt peacefully. HPB investment, as a pension fund management company, continued with the activities of professional asset management, to pay compensation for pensioners,... And carefully managing the property, earning... [[You don't understand.]] for beneficiaries of the pension fund. [[You don't understand.]] For all payments of pension funds until 2009 the funds were secured on several occasions, and in 2009 only before the payment of the additional 115 thousand shares of Croatian Telecommunications amounting to 31.1 million kuna in the pension fund, to ensure the full payment of the third payment of the compensation of the model B basic register of the pension fund, and other wars of the B model register of the family highest pensions in total amounting to 833.5 million kuna, including contributions made by the management of the assets. So the users got even more and made contributions to that property. It is important to say that this process was carried out in December again in a satisfactory manner, to the satisfaction of all users, without delay, so we continue to do so every year until 2013 when the last payment of compensation under this model B register of family highest pensions of approximately 122 million kuna, together with the contribution. At the same time, the Fund continued to resolve the lawsuits of members against the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which are, of course, less and less of those who are therefore not new, all who are raised at the time of the establishment of the fund are being resolved. At the same time, complaints from the members of the fund on the right and on the amount of compensation were resolved, and, of course, there was a record of the payment of pensions, i.e. the heirs of those payments, i.e. the right to pensions. What's important is that here in December last year is about the same number that this year will receive from the compensation, so in December last year 124 thousand 535 users from the basic... He's got his war of damages, it's she's full, full amount... [[You don't understand.]] pays in 6 years reduced to 2 years, so then the third war and 14 thousand 677 users of family and highest pensions who have also received their... [[You don't understand.]] But now the second war of damages. [[You don't understand.]] So much for me in this report, I'm here to answer all the questions and your comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64534	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64535	Thank you very much, Mr. President, esteemed central office representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the 62nd session held on 29 September 2010, the Finance and State Budget Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the operation of the pension fund for 2009, as a parent working body. In its opening statement, a representative of the Central State Office for the Development Strategy and the coordination of the European Union funds pointed out that it was based on Article 19 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The HPB Investment d.o.o. Pension Fund Management Company, in accordance with the pension fund asset management contract, carried out the management of the pension fund. HPB invests d.o.o. has organised and enabled the pension fund project to be implemented professionally and effectively. In particular, we should highlight the safe, conservative policy of managing the pension fund, as we heard in the opening statement. However, it was pointed out that payments were made to all the payments of compensation wars by buying out the shares of model A and the basic register and register of family and highest pension users, three payments of compensation for the purchase of part of model B, and two payments of compensation to B users of family and highest pensions. It has been pointed out that the third war of model B of the basic register and the second war of model B of the family and highest pension register of just over 830 million kuna was paid in 1612.2009. The price of the pension fund’s share in all portfolios of assets is constantly increasing. Despite the global financial and economic crisis that has hit Croatia, the HPB invests continuously making contributions to fund members, so that since the start of the fund's work, it has earned a profit of 13 million kuna, from investment in equity and securities. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget decided by majority vote, 8 votes for and 1 vote abstention to propose to the Croatian Parliament to accept the 2009 Report on the Business of the Pension Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64536	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64537	Dear President, representatives of the fund, fellow MPs. So according to the Retirement Fund Act, the Croatian Post Bank invests d.o.o. to do the jobs and manage the Pension Fund. The Retirement Fund Act provides for a way to compensate beneficiaries of pensions that took place due to the partial harmonisation of pensions for the period from 1 September 1993 to 31 December '98. A year. By law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 12 May '98. The compensation of pensioners and implementation of the Constitutional Court decision shall be arranged for the year. In order to compensate pensioners, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute identified the difference between old, premature old, disabled, family pensions belonging to the pensioners from September 1st, as I said in '93. until December '98. years and paid pension incomes according to government regulations. According to the calculation of the amount of compensation in October 2005, when data were processed for 674 thousand 668 pensioners had the right to compensation of 424 thousand 744 pensioners, and these 249 thousand 924 had no right to compensation. The largest number of beneficiaries who had obtained the right to compensation were those who had achieved their right to pension by 31 December '93. the year, and there are about 370,000 with an average amount of compensation of 28 thousand kuna. According to the established register, fund members decided to choose the compensation model. By choosing between the half payment of the amount of compensation within 2 years or that famous "model A" or the payment of the total amount of compensation within 8 years with two years of waiting, that is the "model B". So "model A" was decided by cca 72% of the fund members, and "model B" cca 28% of the fund members. Croatian Post Bank d.d. has defined payment method with Croatian mail d.d. and these funds are paid spotlessly after the receipt of postcards in the mail office. But there is a problem for a part of the fund that has not been defined as the place and way of payment, and what should be done as urgently as possible. On December 31st 2009, no data were reported by 11.000 435 members of the 4th-war payment fund by "model A" and 8000 385 members of the 3rd-war payment fund per "model B". Lastly, on 31 December 2009, HPB invested d.o.o. 309 thousand 471 places have been reported and payment method by model A and 116 thousand 150 places for payment by model B. In cooperation with the Management Board of the Fund and the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and with the assistance of the other institutions, payments were made to all war of compensation after the purchase of the share of the "model A" and the basic register, the register of users of family and highest pensions, three payments of compensation after the purchase of the share of "model B" and two payments of compensation to "model B" to the users of family and highest pensions. The third war "model B" of the basic register and the second war "model B" register of family and highest pensions was 833 million 474 thousand 944.75 kuna. For the payment of the fourth payment of the "model B" of the basic register and the third payment for the "model B" register of family and highest pensions in the last quarter of 2010 the necessary funds to be entered into by the founder of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's fund amounting to cca 830 million kuna. The exact amount is not known because the share price is changed in fact on a daily basis. The price of the pension fund’s share in all portfolios of assets is constantly increasing and despite the financial and economic crisis of the HPB investment d.o.o. He keeps making contributions to the fund members. Although a small part of the fund’s assets were invested in HPB’s equity securities, investment in early work for fund members has earned profits from investments in equity securities of 13 billion, 5 million, etc., 832 thousand kuna. The HDZ Club supported the 2009 Retirement Fund's Business Report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64538	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64539	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. We have a 2009 Report on the Management of the Pension Fund, a very professionally produced report with a lot of data and I say who wants to read and analyze this data can get a good picture of this big project. But this is also an opportunity to not only go dry through this report but also to expand a little bit and remind ourselves and discuss it among us, but also to our esteemed viewers and listeners a little bit more information. Actually, why the Retirement Fund? Couldn't that, as some say today's debt, have not the state been able to calm down? However, it has always left the Constitutional Court's decision. And the Constitutional Court's decision gave compensation to those pensioners whose pension was reduced between 1993 and 1998 in such a way that they had one right in the law and that the pension was reduced by government regulations. What has been declared illegal and therefore the Constitutional Court has ordered damages. If the debt had been paid, it would probably not have been enough for the state budget to settle it because the debt implies both the principal and the interest but the Constitutional Court went from being a position that the pension system as such does not know the word debt. The peace system knows the word "unsuccessful" or "successful" but "unexecuted" pension payments, but not "debt." So we came up with compensation or damages, and it couldn't possibly be done in a way that was paid out of a pension fund or out of a state budget, and there was an exit to an investment fund. The pension fund is, in its form, an investment fund, not such a type that it is full of shares and shares and that it markets them and creates a new value, but essentially has the role of a guarantee of payment for its nominal value, that is, the underlying task of that fund, and why the investment fund, could have been any other fund, because by law the payments from the investment fund are not subject to taxation, and if there were payments from some other institutions, then it is the extrajudicial agreement between the state and the pensioners, therefore, the beneficiary of compensation, in that case, since there is no legal judicial solution then the tax system would act and it would be taxable, therefore, it is an investment fund to protect the value and untaxable payments to pensioners. Therefore, it is worth it again because there are a lot of people who say so the state in the budget could solve it, but it couldn't, could not, if it respects its positive legal regulations that this House has brought. What characterizes this pension fund is total transparency and business purity and if you look at all these reports you will be convinced of and you will get a lot of data if you want about the industrial development of the state, that is, which part of Croatia had more industrial production, which had more workers' pensions, there are also more damages, so probably, such an assessment that northwestern Croatia, together with the city of Zagreb, is practically carrying 60% of the total compensation. Which means that there have been years of internships and this proves that the internship has its value in the pension system and consequently in the compensation of those to whom part of the money was taken from 93 to 98. In addition to this purity of business and full transparency, it should be said that if the Fund invested, it invested in conservative methods, that the Fund as such, even if someone wanted to accuse them, but it was impossible to sell very small part of the shares to secure the money for the purchase of the stakes, it sold most of the states, let's remember INA and Pliva sold a large package of shares and paid the money into the pension fund, so that on that side the position of the pension fund and the management company HPB Invest is completely clean. What should also be highlighted is a very large project that we forget very often because it goes to some of our own during, it is that nearly 730 thousand pensioners have been processed in the compensation project and that 469 thousand have obtained the right to compensation. Of course, those who did not exercise the right to compensation, one collective method that was in effect from 1998 to 2004, which is a collective payment to all 100 kuna and 6% at the expense of compensation, in 2004 was incorporated into retirement, so that those who did not receive the sum of the compensation are not at a disadvantage because these 100 kuna and 6% were incorporated into the pension base. So the big project, of course, has its difficulties, it's had its birth problems, it's been growing for a long time, but it's done all those commitments that have been put before it. This is not, I repeat, an ordinary investment fund, this Fund through its pension fund management company, HPB Investa, had to make extremely difficult and extensive communication with citizens of compensation users, not just pensioners, pensioners and their heirs, because this right to compensation does not cease to be a death but is transferred to the first succession order. What is to say, what is an objective problem is not a problem in financial form, because somewhere at this point it is impossible to pay about 140 almost 150 million kuna, it is a problem, because there are no addresses, the beneficiaries of the compensation have not delivered their addresses or accounts or the way in which they should be compensated, however, it is somewhere at 1.5% of the total amount of money to be paid, while compared to the number of Fund members working somewhere around 22 thousand problematic where there is no bank, or a way to pay or no address. We should also appeal to them from this place that if they forgot to look at both these inheritances and all those papers and once again check to see if they delivered all the data. What's worth saying here in those 22,000 users, who can't afford to pay off, there are 7,000, actually 6932 people where the payout is not possible because they've never reported to the HPB Invest, we've been investigating it for a long time, and we've come up with data that there's compensation very ridiculous in amounts. For example. The amount of compensation is calculated either £0.50 or €25 or €70 and since the technology is all the same, when you offer someone whether they will accept 50 lips in 4 wars or in 6 wars, of course they won't even come to you. And it's simply that 7 thousand beneficiaries of compensation that are on average searching for about a thousand and a couple of hundred kunas, it's very difficult to motivate them to decide on anything because it's really about negligible amounts. So you know that it went into analysis, and for those others who came forward, who partially submitted the documentation, they repeatedly communicated with all the users of the fund or heirs and tried to do everything possible to get paid. Of course there's one part of the so-called. Ossuary assets, therefore it is property belonging to the Republic of Croatia. It's about people who died in the meantime, and they don't have an heir to the first inheritance order. The money is not withdrawn from the Pension Fund, the money is primarily used for those who are still going to do so in the complaint, which will prove in the complaint that they have miscalculated the amount of compensation. It is in continuity that the register of the Pension Fund and the basic and supplementary register open and the number of users is changing and according to the position of someone who died and his shares were inherited by heirs as well as by the position that the Croatian Pension Insurance Office solves complaints as has one part of the people who seek to establish their right to sue in court. And so that register is always open, it's not fixed, but I'm saying you could look at it as it changes in these tables, where it's been for years but by months if I'm not wrong about how that number changes. So, I personally made my contribution, but I am the least important to this in some way by establishing the Pension Fund, in labor and functioning. I was a member of the Pension Fund Management Board by the end of last year and more than anything, so I'm not mad at the Prime Minister for replacing the pensioners, let's say with the out-of-the-way staff or retired HDZ, I'm not mad at that, that's her right. And more than anything in this story, mini means the praise I received from the management structures of the Pension Fund, praise and thanks for the contribution that representatives of pensioners named Dorotea Mujic, Rudolf Čurčić, Mr Stjepan Krajačić and Marijan Zivković gave to this fund and transparency and the overall clarity of the work of this fund. And I thank them here in front of everyone once again, because when a good job is done a lot of them can keep doing it till the end. Despite the mild anger that these people, I say again, I am not in this story, I am not important, that these people should not have been replaced regardless of what has left the ruling coalition, despite all this mild anger, I must say that the HNS and HSU club will be able to support this Report on the business of the Pension Fund in 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64540	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64541	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored representatives of the proposings, MPs and MPs. HPB Invest d.o.o. the investment fund management company has been entrusted with the management of the Pension Fund in accordance with the law. About your work HPV Invest d.o.o. He submitted a report on the implementation of the Pension Fund project in 2009. The report provided a detailed overview of the successors of the members of the Pension Fund, the members of the Fund who do not have the heirs of the first inheritance order, the complaints of members of the Fund against HZMO, the complaints of members of the Fund on the right and the amount of compensation, payments by purchase of shares and the balance of assets of the Fund. HPB Invest d.o.o. the initial members of the fund have been informed of the membership and the amount of compensation and declarations of the way in which the shares in the Pension Fund are acquired and made available to those who have the right to compensation and the notification of the calculation of the amount of compensation for those who do not have the right to compensation. In accordance with the law and statements of the members of the HPB Invest d.o.o. it has calculated and allocated interest rates to fund members of a total amount of 2 billion kuna in such a way as to split the amount of interest by the amount of compensation, and thus the amount obtained has been prescribed to the amount of compensation to the fund members. The attribution of interest created preconditions for the allocation of shares to fund members. Before the conversion itself to the share according to the selection of fund members model, a reduction of the total amount of compensation for model A was made through statements, thus forming the basis of the fund members' register. HPB Invest d.o.o. with the assistance of legal professionals hired by the Croatian postal bank, he processed all the solutions on the succession for which he provided clear guidance in the media on how to act as well as on the necessary documentation that potential successors should provide to HPB Invest d.o.o. By 31 December 2009, 56 thousand 434 settlements were processed and implemented and 5 000 554 in 2009 alone. For all members of the fund, which has been found unambiguously to have no heirs on the first row of 27 March 2009, following the completion of the death list of fund members who do not have any heirs unallocated funds held in the reserved account of the fund member in Croatia to the Postage Bank of HPB Invest d.o.o. He transferred to the Republic of Croatia as a member of the Fund and accordingly assigned the corresponding share of the Republic of Croatia as a member of the Fund in the basic register of the members of the Fund. In the database, a thousand 704 lawsuits were received from HZMO prior to allocating the share and transfer of all then-existing complaints to the Republic of Croatia as a member of the Fund, and on 31 December 2009, they were 60 who chose the compensation model. In the basic register, there are 224 other members of 1704 who were originally transferred to the Republic of Croatia as members of the fund who have filed an action and have not chosen the compensation model. For the users of family and highest pensions, 71 claims were filed before the share and transfer of all the claims brought at the time in the Republic of Croatia as a member of the fund, and on 31 December 2009, seven of them who chose the compensation model. The total amount of unpaid fund members on 31 December 2009 is for A model basic register 68 million 950 thousand kuna for 14423 members, and for B model basic register 88 million 371,000 kuna for 9905 members. Finally, on December 31st, 20096th, HPB Invest was reported to 309 thousand 471 places and methods of payment for the model and 116 thousand 150 for model B. Professional management of the funds of HPB Invest d.o.o. in a desire to maximise the contribution of fund members with special attention to the risk of investment of funds in the fund, he invested in financial markets in the Republic of Croatia. The very size of this project is also the data of the contact center and the entry centre established by the HPB Invest for the efficient management of the fund. The contact centre with a free phone number still employs and still employs up to 30 operators with working hours every day from 7 to 24 hours. Finally, on December 31st 2009, the number of calls to a free number was 679 thousand 571. Pensioners who have not reported a change in their home address in HZMO have been enabled to report a change of address via the free phone HPB Invest. The report in question shows that HPB Invest d.o.o. Professionally and efficiently organized and enabled the implementation of the project and we propose that this Report on the Pension Fund be accepted at the HSS Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64542	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Gordan Maras. He's gone. Then Mrs. Neda Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64543	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear representatives of the Fund, colleagues and colleagues. Well, we've already heard a lot of what this is about, and I'm going to repeat once again that it's based on an asset management contract for the Pension Fund from 22 November 2005 and 22 November 2007 HPB Invest d.o.o. carry out management tasks of the Pension Fund. As we could hear, an extremely sensitive job has been done with pensioners, i.e. pensioners or their successors. HPB Invest d.o.o. During 2009, he processed all the legacy solutions that potential heirs had full information, which is very important to underline, and in the form of instructions on handling and the necessary documentation to deliver to HPB Invest. Payments were made of all types of compensation per purchase of the share of the model A and the basic register and the register of users of family and highest pensions, three payments of compensation per purchase of shares according to model B and two payments of compensation per model B of the users of family and highest pensions and this was done with cooperation with the Management Board of the Fund and the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. The government of the Republic of Croatia as the founder of the fund in the last quarter of this year should bring about 830 million kuna into the fund. We have also heard that this is necessary for the payment of the fourth payment rate per model B of the Basic Register and the third payment rate per B model of the Register of Family and Highest Pensions. The price is constantly changing, so on a daily basis, so you can't say right now, but you also need to say that HPB Invest d.o.o. He keeps making contributions to fund members. The price of shares per pension fund per portfolio is constantly rising despite the financial and economic crisis. In the end, I will personally support the 2009 Retirement Fund Report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64544	Thank you. Let's move on. Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64545	Mr. President, the respected representatives of the Fund, colleagues and colleagues. As has already been said, the Pension Fund Act has established a Pension Fund which regulates the way in which pension beneficiaries are compensated as referred to in Article 2(1). The law implementing the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 1998, which fully implements the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 1998. I think it is good that once a year, the Croatian Parliament has the opportunity to be familiar with the situation of the Pension Fund managed by the HPB Invest d.o.o., a company for the management of investment funds. It is particularly important that potential heirs were given clear guidance on the handling and the necessary documentation to obtain an inheritance solution, as the report shows that 5554 inheritance solutions were processed and implemented in 2009 and the situation by 31.12.1999 totaled 56,000 434. The report shows that one number of members of the fund did not provide an inheritance, place and method of payment, and on 31 December 1999, so the data did not report 11 thousand 435 members of the Fund for the payment of the fourth war according to model A and 8 thousand 385 members of the Fund for the payment of the third war per model B. So, as of 31 December 2009, HPB Invest d.o.o. 309 thousand 471 places were reported and payment methods for model A and 116 thousand 150 for model B. I think it is also important to highlight the total amount that is coming, which should be paid to fund members on 31.12.2009, which is therefore according to model A basic register 68 million 950 thousand 644 kuna for 14423 members. According to model B from the basic register, so 88 thousand 371 thousand 494 kuna for 9905 members. The total amount of non-payments, therefore, of members of the top pension fund on 31.12.2009, is according to model A 9 million 508 thousand 813 kuna 38 for 1227 members. According to model B 19 million 236 thousand 628 kuna for 1713 members. I think it's still important to call and remind, so all those who haven't called to report with solutions and place and way to pay even though I know there's a contact center and a centre uno for a free number and that's really very good. So that there is one free number for pensioners to report changes to the address that they don't have to come to. What I would particularly like to point out is the state of the property, i.e. the way in which the pension fund's assets are managed. I believe it was professional property management under Article 21. The Retirement Fund Act. Therefore, it was taken into account the security of investment in assets, maintenance of adequate liquidity, profitability. And it's obvious that the Fund's profit, so from the beginning of the work, is over 13 million kuna, that it was an investment in equity securities. And what is also important is that it was an investment in financial markets in the Republic of Croatia. Since we know what the situation was that there was also a crisis on the financial and economic agenda in the world, something has spread over to Croatia, I think it is really well managed management, that it shows a single security of the non-banking, financial area and I also think that it has played an important role in this, and HANFA, an important control role, a supervisory role, and here on the basis of this, I will support the 2009 Retirement Fund Report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64546	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64547	Thank you very much. Fellow Members, it might be very important to point out that however difficult the financial situation in Croatia is that this government has always found ways and solutions to find funds to pay back the debt to pensioners. And I think that should be highlighted as well as other social structures in the Republic of Croatia. So, it never happened to be late or to pay off that obligation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But it's very clear to me that this debt, here we are now talking about this Pension Fund, these obligations paid to pensioners still exist. None of the Social Democratic Party MPs spoke today. Obviously, it's none of their business, although normally in their discussions they always remember pensioners, they always remember workers, social structures, always feel sorry for them. But today when we talk about paying off the pensioners' debt or the voice to hear it is not from our right hand. So maybe it's a sign, and I just wanted to point out that it's not a waste of praise that the government has really always managed as much as it can, but the pensioners have not left in this difficult financial situation one time without a single war or late with any war to pay off the pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64548	Thank you. Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64549	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's a distinguished colleague of Kunst I really agree with you The government really takes care of the pensioners. The fact is that this too, I would say this return or compensation to the pensioners that it was actually formed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, our Government, the HDZ Government. And it should also be said that the government continues to take care of pensioners. And recently, we had a state budget, so receiving or paying pensioners won't shrink no matter how difficult the situation was or how difficult it was. It is also important to say that there is a real cancer in the way that pensions come regularly. This gives a significant amount of security to the pensioners and I must say that what was and that was a constant mention by the SDP that would reduce pensions even before that rebalance of the 2009 state budget. There was such a big psychosis, one uncertainty that simply the pensioners were kind of scared. And that's why it's good that there was that budget rebalance for 2009 at the time he was, and it's also good that this rebalance of the budget that went now that some said was premature. I think it's precisely on the safety of all pensioners and all those who receive therefore pensions from the state budget that it's important that they have one certainty that this government takes care of them, that the finances are stable in the state budget. So, he'll get a pension and that pension won't be cut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64550	Thank you. And on behalf of the club for five minutes, final Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja, on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU. Here you go. I'm sorry. There seems to be some mistake here. Mr. Goran Maric had a special, so a special debate of ten minutes. Yes, go ahead. I'm sorry it's obviously come to see there's no application here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64551	Thank you very much, Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Asked a philosopher in ancient Greece what's most important in life. He says he doesn't betray the secret, forget the injustice and use his time properly. I wouldn't agree with all that. The injustices must not be forgotten. And this is an example, an excellent example where the great injustice has not been forgotten, but the great injustice has gone away. And thanks to the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court probably wouldn't have a pension fund, and today we wouldn't even be discussing the Retirement Fund Report. But in Croatia, we are very often forced to correct injustices, so many cancellations are divided against the law, so many employees are fired against the law, so many directors have been violently replaced and all the consequences and damages occur with a few years away, when they no longer decide and suffer no harm from those who have caused that damage, because only judgments of the courts on payment come and payments and interest and compensation damages and return or return to work or return to their original state. Another absurd fact is that those who have done so are in a good way, and those who correct these damages are very often in a bad way, because the results are worse because of these damages, and so one naively famous person in France asked their famous lawyer who they are who determine who's in a good voice and who's in a bad voice. And he answered it, and it is they who are the judges of you who have been condemned for a long time. This is an example of a pension fund, an example of a professional relationship with a state institution, with state property. And Mr. Hrelje's speech from the opposition points to such a conclusion, and I was glad to hear that conclusion. Because a very rare example that at this time of temptation, a time of challenge, a time of risk, a time of economic crisis, a time of pressure from all sides was managed in such a professional, conservative, and secure way. The most investment was made in the money market, something in HT shares, and what very often those experienced under-experienced summer managers invested in shares of companies in Montenegro, Kosovo, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and lost hundreds of millions of kuna. And I congratulate HPB on how to manage this pension fund. Only a report and a shortened form and a full form is very professionally, professionally and contentally made, from it can be read so much. Of course, my colleague Majdenic said that the great role played by HANFA, which has contributed to such conservative management and such good results. It's nice to hear that all the damages have been paid, it's nice to hear that a great injustice has been paid to pensioners who have been made with one ease and irresponsible decision, but it's also found the best way to pay off the damage done to those pensioners. And I'd just like to show public support for this report, and keep doing that in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64552	Thank you. Final 5 minutes on behalf of the HNS club, HSU's distinguished representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64553	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. I'll react to a few things. I agree that we are all talking about the Colloquial recovery of the pensioners, but we, as advocates, must indeed speak what is in the spirit of the Constitutional Court's decision about the compensation of the damages, the compensation of our citizens, the pensioners, or their heirs. And this really does not belong to the category of regular concern, as someone wants to show the governments to the pensioners, about maintaining the pensioner standards, this is one of the biggest contributions to proving Croatia's functioning as a rule of law. And of course we should say again here, 2003. HDZ did not mention in the pre-election race or debt returns or compensation, the SDP said it was done. There is nothing that has been taken individually that has been performed and returned to collective methods. And if the Croatian Party of Retired People had not happened then with a goal, of course, which was accepted by the HDZ government as part of the coalition from this compensation would probably have been nothing. And they made two governments like it or not. However, I underline, the role of HANFA is important, but most importantly in this story of the transparent operation of the pension fund is the role of the Management Board of the pension fund, which had such a firm will that it did not want to make any payments, not a single paper to give, issue out, make a decision, if it was not checked and if it was not complete all documents. What is also fair to say is that in the overall compensation project due to lack of political will, three categories were dropped, these were the categories of family pensions that preceded the personal pensions, the pensions of people who were re-employed after 1998, and during that period were damaged, and political prisoners who received their status after 1998. It is not a problem of the board of directors, it is not a problem of this report, but we are talking about this matter and we should say that because of the lack of political will these three categories have been omitted, that let's say the crime of this whole project, if there is political will, it can be said in the same way, the fund can solve it afterwards. What is important to point out is under the Pension Fund Act, on the basis of statutes, notices to pensioners, beneficiaries of compensation have exceptional legal certainty. The state definitely can't tell me I don't have the money, I can't do it, I can't pay you back, because the state has admitted, so its notices to the pensioners and their selection of the compensation model, so it's recognised the debt, and they've been identified by the beneficiaries for the method of compensation. This is therefore an exceptional legal certainty for the beneficiaries of the compensation, and the compensation is not made from the budget, but from the property of the Republic of Croatia. And finally, yet one good news, as well as I'm informed, although I'm not a member of the pension fund board, but I always get the information, and this year, with the payment of the fourth war of compensation, there will be enough property transferred to the pension fund, and certainly before Christmas, some 120 thousand beneficiaries of compensation can expect to pay that compensation to their own accounts. This is about the following: Zagreb and Zagreb County should receive about 250 million kunas at the expense of compensation, i.e. pensioners and their successors, Split-Dalmatia 100, Istria 70, Primorje-Gorski County 100 million. I think it's also a nice gift before Christmas because the average compensation is somewhere near 7 thousand kuna, that it's a good gift, but also a sure contribution to the overall economic security of pensioners, or their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64554	And final review, esteemed Hrvoje Dolenec, State Secretary of the Central State Office for Development Strategy and Coordination of EU Funds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64555	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, just a few words. The pension fund project and compensation payments are not completed, so we continue to work, we bring in new people who solve the payouts and pay the damages. We've got a few more years to pay off, and they're taken care of, and they're involved. Another thing I wanted to say to call from this booth, what Mr. Hrelja has already mentioned before, all the users and heirs who have not delivered the data for their payments, and there are several thousand of them, let them deliver the information to get their funds because they are standing in accounts and are ready for payment at any time. And thirdly, just to confirm for this war, so for this cycle of payments, the 4 war of compensation of the basic register and the 3 war of compensation of the users of family and highest pensions are provided and it will go on a regular basis before Christmas so that everyone will also have a Christmas gift that stems from their compensation rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64556	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when they get the necessary conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64557	We're moving on to the 2009 Retirement Fund Report. The applicant is the Central State Office for Development Strategy and Coordination of European Union Funds. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Report of the Pension Fund for 2009 is accepted. a year." Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This report was adopted unanimously with 108 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64558	We go further in the agenda, and that is - Proposal for a Law on Roads, item No. Seven, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 661 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Tomislav Mihotić, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64559	The esteemed chairman, the esteemed parliamentary representatives. The normative framework and the basis for long-term development of public roads makes the Law on Public Roads the basic of 2004 with 6 amendments and additions. Given the great achievements in the road sector and the experience gained over the past 6 years in use, the moment for upgrading legislation has matured. Among other things, the necessary Public Roads Act was immediately demonstrated to comply with the provisions of the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government with the new EU directives on road safety and electronic toll collection, to open the issue of unclassified roads with their entry in land books, as well as to further regulate the provisions used so far and build on the basis of previous experiences. The detected areas have also determined a change of the name of the law in the Roads Act. So it's not called the Law of Public Roads anymore. It's called the Roads Act. The proposal, with the consultation of all addicts, addresses the following important issues: the law removes obstacles to effective management and maintenance of public roads and further decentralisation of road management in the area of large cities. Towns of more than 35,000 inhabitants and the centre of the county. Measures to protect public roads are tightened by more precise definition of exceptional transport, by introducing excessive use of public roads, by provisions on the control of vehicles operating on public roads. The law is further in line with European legislation. The EU Road Infrastructure Safety Directive and the Commission's decision on the definition of a European electronic toll collection service. The issue of public road books in land books is regulated, which will result in the settlement of the effective state of ownership over public roads compared to today's unregulated land-book situation, i.e. will allow the removal of social property and ownership of other persons, with registration of inalienable ownership of the Republic of Croatia on public roads. Today perhaps the most picturesque example is the Adriatic highway built in the period around '64. the year which has not yet been fully entered and the problems relating to the issue appear non-stop. Rights are extended for persons who have been diagnosed with physical impairment of 100% vision, i.e. their release of toll payments is introduced. The responsibility of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure shall be determined precisely by the administrative procedure to determine the fulfilment of the conditions prescribed for the acquisition and exercise of the right to release the payment of annual fees for the use of public roads paid for in the registration of the vehicle. And the proposed law will remove legal gaps related to the organisation of unclassified roads in defining the concept and parts of unclassified roads, determining the legal status of unclassified roads as roads owned by units of local self-government, prescribing the construction and maintenance of these roads and editing entries in land books of surfaces used naturally as unclassified roads. These are the basic points regarding the things that have been amended in this law. I am at your disposal for further questions and comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64560	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. The Committee on European Integration? No, I don't. The Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee? No, I don't. And the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ivan Bogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64561	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, we have a proposal for a Road Law, this legislative proposal harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. The public road is of good interest to the Republic of Croatia in general use, and there is no right to ownership of public roads or other real rights on any basis other than the right to service and right to build municipal, water and energy buildings as well as the building of electronic communications. And road land can be used to carry out existing activities of providing services to public road users. In accordance with this property that is managed for the construction of reconstruction and maintenance of public roads becomes generally of interest to the Republic of Croatia. The most important public impact of public road declaration on the general good is the exclusion of the public road from the general ownership of the legal regime and therefore the possibility of obtaining property and limited real rights on them on any basis such as legal work, the Law of the Court of Justice or other competent authorities. As a result, public roads cannot even be implemented, they cannot be subject to forced publishing rights in the insurance procedures, and public roads do not enter into the property of persons authorised under the law to manage them. This also ensures special protection of public roads as a good of interest for the Republic of Croatia and public road is entered in land books on the basis of a powerful licence as a public good in general use and as inalienable property of the Republic of Croatia. The problem of public roads which have been built long before and which do not have a valid permit but do not have a building permit should certainly be noted here, most often there has been no land extraction, today it appears as a major problem since we know that most often no co-ownership has been resolved is very difficult to get to real owners and given the state of cadastra or grantovnica, owners or co-owners of the country live not only throughout Croatia but throughout the world and it will certainly be one of the biggest problems in the book. Public roads depend on their social, traffic, economic meanings are classified in highways, state roads, county and local roads. A total of 29 thousand 546,9 km of roads were classified in public roads, 1562.6 km of highways, 6819.7 km of state roads, 10.867.4 km of county roads and 10.297,2 km of local roads. Public roads are classified as one of four groups depending on compliance with the prescribed criteria and the decision on classification is made by the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and published in the National Journal. Public roads are also managed by the masters of the Croatian road d.o.o., the state roads of the Croatian highways d.o.o., highways, concession companies Rijeka-Zagreb d.d., highway Zagreb-Macelj d.o.o., and BINA Istria d.d., highways and buildings with concession charge and 20 county road administrations and the administrative body of the city of Zagreb county and local roads. This Law suggests that the counties remain in the jurisdiction of county and local roads outside the areas of large cities and cities which are the headquarters of the county, which are managed by the County Road Administration. Large cities are considered cities with more than 35,000 inhabitants and cities of county headquarters in the area of construction and maintenance are left to county and local roads in their area that cease to be public and become unclassified roads, especially defined as city roads. The funds for maintenance, construction and reconstruction and construction of urban roads are provided partly from annual fees and fees for the financing, construction and maintenance of public roads from excise duty to fuel, a proportional share of the length of city roads in the total length of county and local roads classified according to a decision on the classification of public roads in state, county and local roads. This proposal can lead to a difficult situation of county centres that have a small number of inhabitants, namely a small number of vehicles and fewer revenues than paid toll. We know that we have county centers that have between 10, 15 thousand inhabitants and up to 100, 150, 200 thousand inhabitants and are sure to be proportional to that is a larger number of vehicles, different lengths of roads, and therefore incomes that will surely make it difficult to maintain these roads for smaller environments. We believe that the distribution of funds should be prescribed in another way, perhaps one of the criteria should be the degree of development. The law should prescribe which city roads, whether those passing through the city's settlement or those passing the administrative areas of cities, we know that the administrative areas of cities are very different and most often small towns, have a large territorial area, which means they have a large length of kilometers of roads, and given the number of inhabitants and less income, and with the basis of registration of vehicles and these other rights. In order for public roads to be managed, built and maintained in quality, it is necessary to draw up planning documents and this is the strategy for the development of public roads by the Croatian Parliament, the programme for the construction and maintenance of public roads for the four-year period brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the annual implementation plans adopted by public road managers. The law also prescribes measures to protect public roads, I will look back at excessive use as one of the frequent occurrences on our roads, where mainly companies whose activity is the exploitation of mineral raw materials, the cutting of forests, industrial production, construction works and the like, due to overloads or excessive axle pressures and excessive use of roads, there is destruction of them. After completing some of the above activities, the road is very rarely brought into the original state and the most frequent cost of recovery and repair is borne by one who manages the road or if he manages to charge for the costs of repair and maintenance of those roads it is a process that lasts for years, and for all this time the road is mostly damaged and is not for use. I believe that the minister will prescribe more precisely the criteria and criteria of excessive use of roads and will be able to force the person who has done damage to the road faster and easier to remove it at his expense. The damage to game, the responsibility for damage caused to persons or on the vehicle by gamers first: the driver has not acted according to traffic or sign, we have noticed that there has been an increase in the number of traffic signs that inform traffic participants about the possibility of crossing or hitting savages. And now my question would be if the driver moves at the speed of traffic, pops his game in what sense has he acted in accordance with the traffic rule? Or secondly, the person authorised to manage the public road according to the provisions of this law unless he has acted in accordance with Article 16 of this Law, and Article 16 says: "public roads must be built, reconstructed and maintained so that all road users who are intended can safely use them". Now here, in a way to protect the public road user from the attack of savages, I think that would be more specific. The proposed provisions in relation to the applicable Public Roads Act extend the circle of persons with disabilities who can achieve the release of toll payments and to the category of persons who have been diagnosed with physical impairment of vision of 100%. Since it is one group of persons with the most difficult disability, the Law proposes to prescribe the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure for more detailed regulation of conditions and documents on the basis of which the right, implementation of the procedure and the adoption of a solution for the exercise of the right of persons with disabilities, the release of annual fees and tolls is exercised. The right to release from toll payments now results in 8000 453 people with disabilities. The integration of the provisions of the European Community Directive 2009/750 on the European electronic toll charge will ensure the implementation of the European toll payment model in the Republic of Croatia and the inclusion of the Croatian road network charging tolls into an interoperable toll system on the EU road network. The service provider of the European electronic toll toll payment NC shall be a legal person who has the appropriate equipment to enable the ENC to charge the toll, fulfils the conditions for the provision of the ENC service and is entered in the register of the ENC service provider in the EU Member State in which it is established. This law also sets out more precisely the financing of public road construction and maintenance, and Articles 135 and 136 are prescribed by the deadlines within which the Government of the Republic of Croatia will adopt regulations and decisions, and the Minister of Implementing Regulations for which they are authorised by the provisions of this law. The HDZ representative club supports the adoption of this law, which would essentially take the regulatory approach of the applicable Public Roads Act on the legal position of public roads, the classification of public roads, the organisation, construction and maintenance, and measures to protect public roads, concessions, financing and public road management, align provisions with the provisions of the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government and new EU directives on road safety and electronic toll collection, regulate unclassified roads and address the issue of enrolment of public and unclassified roads in land books.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64562	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64563	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen of the Ministry. So, before us is the Road Law proposal, which is how we read it in line with European directives, and he brought in some newspapers that happened in the way that I think the biggest newspaper is that part of the management and ownership of these roads is given to local self-government units, or cities, in a way that also those roads that are in town are at the service of maintenance and all other units of local self-government. In addition to being relatively well written, I am glad that you have listened to the second reading since some of the provisions adopted as a newspaper in this law have also introduced a number of questions that need to be answered in the direction that this law really is good and that it really serves citizens in a way that there are no doubts about the implementation of articles of this law. In this regard, I would just like to say a few personal remarks that we have received and that we know that we should try to work them out, and above all, it's about that part of the law that talks about city roads. So, it would be good if this regulation that's here was determined on city roads to make it more precise. What does "accurately" mean? To determine exactly what city roads are in which borders we talk about city roads whether the boundaries of the settlements, whether about the boundaries of some other categories. In any case, it would be necessary for these city roads to then be defined in a more precise way that the cities know when they get what they get and in what extent they get on board. In addition, as far as city roads are concerned, we see that now part of the roads that pass through the cities now are in public roads such as county roads or part of state roads, in this case are now treated as unclassified roads. One of the main remarks is that these roads that are in the city that have so far had public road status would also be public roads in the city, because we know why they would turn into non-classical roads, because they would then be financed from municipal compensation. I am sure that the municipal fee as a relic of last time will be replaced by something else, so it would be good for both in this case and in the cities of the road to be public roads as they are in all other parts of the Republic of Croatia. We also think that it would be good for the right of service to define more precisely that there is no confusion about this right of service, when for example. that the right to service someone on a public road when something needs to be done is costing something, so these relationships should be arranged not to go to any expense and not to slow down the possible reconstruction, construction or something else that needs to be done on the roads. In this part of the roads carried over to the level of large cities and cities of the centre and county, it may also be necessary to define this law to be more precise as it is with that part of public lighting which, along the public road of the present meaning, was in the previous law, so that these definitions could also be made differently. We have some remarks that may also need to be clarified by this law, which is, above all, when a proposal for extradition is submitted, for county and local roads in the Zagreb area. Who can do that? It is not defined by this law, so it would be good to respect this remark. It is also stated here in Article 38 that the infrastructure that is located or moved outside roadland and for which full exemption is required, it is necessary to define which infrastructure it is. So it's not defined which one it is. I think it would be good for the clarity of the law to define what infrastructure it is. Also in Article 100, it would be good to explain who decides on the establishment of the right of service. It says here how to read that it can be a representative body, but then it takes quite a while, we know as a representative body meets in principle once a month. Whether to think of it in such a way that part of the establishment of the right of service can be placed in the jurisdiction of the executive authority, and not to make it as defined here or as can be read under this law, is not defined. Perhaps it should be more precise to determine that it is an executive authority or if you agree to be this second representative authority then you should know that it will slow down the possibility that something is happening on the roads faster and better quality. Also, I think it would be good to also take care of a more just one, I would say, public road financing. We know that the main income for public roads goes from the 0.60 from the price of gasoline and that income goes to Croatian roads, then the Croatian roads are laid down according to the county rules, by the minister's rules. I think it would be more correct to make some kind of different model of distribution, that it would be some kind of formula that would be neutral, which would then be able, in some way, to those units of local self-government through which the traffic takes place and has more vehicles and through which the traffic takes place a lot more often so that they would get that part of the cake so that they could keep such roads in the quality provided for by the Roads Act. Of course, that funding should also be in that way for, if they cross the city roads into public road status, then from that part and those formulas could then be financed, knowing that units of local self-government and cities that will now be entitled to manage those roads would be good to allow them to also have monetary incomes, not only a municipal fee, from which they will then maintain such public roads. So it is necessary, I think it is time for this one way of financing public roads in the Republic of Croatia to be determined differently. I know that you will say that there are counties that have a lot of roads, but they have fewer vehicles and that then they should also help to ensure that the quality of maintenance of their roads is indeed at one European level. But it would be good if then those units of local self-government that have a lot of vehicles, where more traffic takes place, also have adequate compensation for that better quality road maintenance. I think in the second reading of the observations sent by both the cities' associations and the county associations, it would be good to read them and try to see that in any case, the law is more precisely determined according to these requirements that they have stated. In any case, it would be necessary, I know that there is also an Association of County Road Administrations and perhaps consult them in this second part so that the law really looks and is more operational and more precise in those items that are defined here, but not quite accurate. The proposal is also that, here in this law is envisaged what might somehow be on the side, but that 100% disabled, those who do not see have the right to free use of public funds. It would be good if maybe 10% of the disabled all had the right to drive for free, not just those who didn't see it. 100% disability is indeed a category that should be free of toll payments in this Croatia or some other public road charges. So, the law is correct, the law is relatively good, but it should be respected in the second reading of the observations of the City Association, the observations of the County Association, and as much as possible to appreciate in that part that the articles listed in this law are more precise for the sake of this law, I believe that the law will be long-lasting because it is well done, but that precision is extremely important to us, especially now that part of the jurisdiction, as it says here, is decentralised to the large cities and cities of the county headquarters, to then be clear and precise, the borderline part of our funding, the public lighting that then belongs there. And of course what I was saying somewhere at the beginning was the right of service to determine more precisely so that it wouldn't stop possible investments. For example. We know there's some kind of infrastructure in the public road. So if you need to get off that public road to maintain public roads to move a cable that is, an electric cable or a voltage, I don't know how much those who are investors should do. The investor, of course, is either the county administration or the Croatian road or some other investor, but it's basically the ones that do the electricity. They want money to be paid first to open the competition because they don't have the money to move it out of the existing hull of the road. It doesn't make sense, so it should be more clear how it is done that there is no conflict of interest, and that road work is done by law and that road work is in the quality that would satisfy traffic safety on those roads. Here, I hope by the second reading you'll appreciate some of these remarks and then we'll discuss it further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64564	Thank you. It's next to the HNS-HSU club, the distinguished representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64565	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable secretary of state with associates. My colleagues and colleagues. I'll say at the beginning that I'll share the time set for the club with my colleague Hreja, so I'll try to be as brief as possible. This law that is before us today actually refers to the 2004 law that has since experienced six changes so it is good that there is a law in that first reading that will clarify all changes, put one place and there will be no more problems in meeting and looking for details in all changes and changes. The main issues to be addressed by this law are the legal status of public roads, the classification of public roads, the planning of development, construction and maintenance of public roads, public road management confidence, construction, maintenance and other public road management operations, property legal relations created in connection with construction, public road protection measures, safety requirements for public roads and tunnels. Further concessions are handled under this law, financing public roads, persons with disabilities. I'm gonna stop there for a while. Here's what my predecessor said. I'm happy to say that the promoter recognized the need to return to the law 100% disabled. You only know those who are blind here. These people will not be obliged to pay tolls under this law. I'd like to be here to make sure that all the 100% people with disabilities get back into the law. I don't think that's where those who have 100% disability by cumulation are supposed to go in, but everyone, everyone who has a 100% disability, should come into this bill for us. The law further regulates the supervision of public road inspections as well as the unclassified roads. I will also advocate that until the second reading, the discussions, any objections and suggestions adopted by the Committee on Local, Regional Self-Government are taken into account. Here's a report from that board written on three pages. Some of it's already been said by a colleague of Denon. I might just mention aloud that it is really important to take care of the deadline for entry into force of this Act, because under the law, the minister is obliged to bring in many regulations and we think that this proposal will not do so in the first reading. We therefore ask that attitude and that opinion be taken into account. Bad road and even worse rail infrastructure contribute to the transport isolation of many regions in our country, a serious obstacle to the integration of their economic and social life with other parts of Croatia. This reflected their slow development with the known and severe consequences of the depopulation. In addition, the safety of traffic is essentially affected by man, traffic, means of transport, society and the environment of the road. The quality or non-quality of the road network is often higher due to the development or lagging of the region than is shown statistically. On this basis, I will look back on the road road traffic situation in my Krapina-Zagorje County and start from the Zagreb – Krapina – Macelj which is one of the most important road routes in the Republic of Croatia and has not and has no such treatment in documents that speak of its fate and the effects it has produced. The highway from Zabok to Krapina was built so that the state road D1 or better known as the Zagorska highway from Zabok to Krapina was installed in one of the new highways Zagreb – Macelj which lost a good alternative highway direction. The highway without a quality alternative road for all categories of vehicles is known as the only road, the world precedent is because the highway must not be exclusive roads in a given area. Because of this fact, it was necessary to build an alternative connecting road between Zabok and Krapina. This has not happened, and since 2006, following the introduction of a closed toll system on the highway for local population and economy needs to be used by an existing local road which, despite the arrangements and reconstructions, does not meet the needs and is dangerous for traffic. I ask the question when the construction of the new connecting road Zagreb – Krapina will begin. In 2007, we were assured of the start of construction, and today we are as we know at the end of 2010. In 2008, there was an increase in toll on the highway Zagreb – Macelj on average by 11% for all categories of vehicle. Road carriers from my Krapina-Zagorje County own 10% of the total transport capacity in Croatia and form a significant part of the economic activity in the county. The fact is they have incomparably the most expensive toll and no alternative. Does anyone feel responsible for this injustice? The people of Krapina-Zagorje County may be safer on the highway and, for example, the road from Mokrica to Zapresic is shortened by about five minutes in one direction. Is it worth it? And whoever you are from Zagorac can afford to pay twice as much time savings in two times five minutes, twice 11 kuna, i.e. in 10 minutes, possibly a shorter trip a day to single out 22 kunas. For 20 working days, it's a colleague and colleague of 440 kunas. I ask the question, and many Zagorci and Zagorki work in Zagreb can any of them afford it? Certainly not. The fast road Zabok – Bračak – Marija Bistrica – Popovic with a merger on Breznička Hum by its concept should be connected to half of the municipalities and cities of our county and to the part that is just because of the bad or no traffic infrastructure lagging behind in the development of its numerous potentials in the economy, education, health care. The planned and necessary road is still and we are afraid that there will be part of state transport strategies and spatial plans for a long time and has not entered the Betement B program. Is it really necessary to work on moving some ministers to our green seas in order to develop like some other regions? Tourism and that of the warm, health-recreative, religious, cultural historical in Croatia Zagorje can last a whole calendar year and it is a real chance of Croatian Zagorje and, of course, the whole country. How to revive numerous thermal spas, how to tour numerous Zagorje castles and curias of the largest Marijan sanctuary, places of birth of Dick and famous Zagorje sons without adequate road roads. Who else is not in the interest of putting into office and who will be responsible for this kind of approach to this part of our country? According to the 2005/2008 Public Road Construction and Maintenance Programme The roads of Kuzmec-Začretje, Risica-Dubrovčan, Valentinovo-Krapina were to be reconstructed in Zagorje, the reconstruction only took place on the route of Kuzmec-Zacretje. The rest of the shares, here's thank God we see that they've entered the improvement B, I have to say that we're skeptical because here we Zagori because we've had too many I'd say empty promises, but I still believe that there will be a realisation of those shares. And finally, Mr. Secretary, I ask you a question through you to Mr. Calmeta, which I have writtenly asked for reception, namely the reception of three of my mayors and the mayor of my Krapina-Zagorian County. Mr. Calmeta has so far found no time for us, I ask why? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64566	Continuing, distinguished representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64567	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I am taking the opportunity to point out, in front of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Pensions Party, the lack of a provision in Article 50 that speaks of the damages of savages. This article recognises three fundamental positions that liability for damage caused by a gamer on a public road by a driver unless he has acted on a traffic or sign, another variant of a person authorised to manage a public road according to the provisions of this law unless he has acted in accordance with Article 16 of this Act which speaks of the construction and maintenance of roads and the third variant of a person who controls a hunting ground in accordance with the rules governing hunting in other cases. I warn that three laws should be put in line, the Hunting Law was changed in 2009 at the 6th month, and freed the obligations of the hunting society to ensure the damage possibly caused by the game on vehicles, and they are known to have no money. The second paragraph of paragraph 2 of this article will continue to be subject to the compensation of the highway which is also fenced, which is also arranged, however, they will be ensured because the damages are large, they will be ensured by the insurance company not to bear any damage themselves, because the gamer can skip that fence. All others have no obligation to protect the state road and the local road, so they will not edit and protect roads and damages will arise. I suggest that in Istria, 250 citizens are currently asking the County Road Administration for about 3 million kuna damages due to damage to vehicles caused by jumping or a collision with savages. Therefore, I do not consider a regulated state to be one that leaves citizens to suffer harm without being responsible for the damage they have suffered. So I think that this should be arranged, and that it should be put in line I say with the Hunting Law, and with the Mandatory Relations Act, because I have read, I have read what the authority of the county road administration corresponds to all those who have suffered the damage. He points them to art, to court proceedings, so they've suffered damage, they're not responsible, they haven't ordered such a crash, they have to spend a lot of money to prove they're right. I point out in this story a good example, an example of the County Road Administration of Krapina-Zagorian County, which has found that there is a trap here, and who have neatly singled out some money and paid the insurance premium, and their drivers do not suffer such damage, do not have to prove, unless the police record is in order that they have not exceeded speed, that they have respected the signs, they receive compensation neatly. Therefore, on the trail of these solutions, or insurance of such risks total to all drivers through the insurance company, I ask you to consult the county road administrations until the second reading, and to please translate the best solutions into this law. I will also be grateful to you on behalf of these 250 damaged in Istria County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64568	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Milivo Schwartz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64569	Dear Vice President, I must correct an incorrect quote that our colleague Hursa said, which is that unfortunately the road, the fast road Mokrice-Vračak-Marija Bistrica did not enter the program of improvement. It simply couldn't get into the improvement program because it's a matter of building the new road that we need, and the improvement program is as far as I know the enhanced maintenance of existing roads. But one more thing I have to say is that the Zabok-Krapin highway was mentioned, and the problem is that it's the only case, that it was used by the state road in the highway, but I would remind my colleague Hurs that once the Minister of Public Justice Cacic said today, Mr. Zagorci, you can only dream of a parallel road.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64570	Thank you. Continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64571	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. As the secretary of state was relatively brief in his opening statement, so will I be brief, but very specific. Namely, this bill bears the E mark, hence the compliance or harmonisation of Croatian laws with European standards and road regulations, this is about public and unclassified roads. So the comments that I have specifically on this legislative proposal relate to Article 50. As some of the predecessors here have said, it is the damages of savages, or liability for damages. This is the worded article, so Article 50 was also in the last amendment to the law, and was imposed in fact by hunting alliances, associations, etc., by hunters. This proposal is unclear in its formulation, and in practice ends in courts, with an increase in costs and dissatisfaction of all parties. Since a savage behaves unpredictablely and suddenly almost does not have a driver's procedure that can prevent an accident. It is not clear from the provisions of the Hunting Law that they are obligations of the poacher or the poacher when it comes to damage to vehicles moving through open hunting grounds. According to Article 50, our responsibility is if we do not comply with Article 16 of this Roads Act, which reads: "public roads must be built, reconstructed and maintained so that in a safe way all road users can use them for whom they are intended", which is completely general and unclear and can be interpreted in any case in the court proceedings. Depending on the judge who's running the case. Since, in reality, the encounter of savages on a vehicle or on a game vehicle is almost always an unpredictable event, and given the provisions and definitions of the applicable Hunting Law, it would be a much better solution to resolve game damage through compulsory vehicle insurance. And not to mention in the Road Law at all. Given that the primary problem is therefore the financial compensation is simpler for vehicle owners, for all of us, and for the poachers to resolve it in this way, and that the price of compulsory vehicle insurance, I say, is almost insignificantly increased in terms of the number of vehicles, by a certain amount which would refund the costs of the damages in the event of a contact between the vehicle and the game. Furthermore, there was a discrepancy between certain articles in the text of the legislative proposal. This was most likely due to the fact that the previous amendments to the proposal had been made, and then there were certain discrepancies. For example, Article 51(1) correctly formulates that the intersection of public roads between both public roads and unclassified roads is not considered in the sense of this law by connecting and accessing public roads. At the same time, Article 2 of point 11. defines the road connection as part of a road where an unclassified road or other traffic area is connected to a public road. So here it can be fixed, clearly this is the first reading. To remove unclassified road from Article 2 of point 11. Article 85(2) states that the County Road Administration when the county is the only member or manages, so when it is a legal person, it will use the profit, hence the ZUC or the County Road Administration, the gain it achieves for the construction and maintenance of the county and local roads it manages. And Article 2 paragraph 19 defines the County Road Administration as an institution for the management, construction, reconstruction and maintenance of county and local roads. If we have defined ZUC as an institution, then it does not have a gain because Article 85(2) is an item of Article 85, and Article 2 of Article 85 is unnecessary. Therefore, Article 85(2) and should be excluded if it is an institution, then it has no profit, not ZUC. So, here you are, I'd say maybe a slight discrepancy could be improved. It's also good that someone here in the debate noticed that part of the road would cross into, I say, the jurisdiction of cities or county centers. In any case, the ministry had to take into account the size of one and the number of vehicles, and the size of the territory and the length of kilometers of roads that would belong to the county centre, for example. I don't know if there are 20,000 people, there's no 20,000 inhabitants, and there's huge territory and surface. Or, for example, Slunj, which has 400 square km of the city and Split, let's say, now Split takes an example that has far above or close to 200 thousand inhabitants, one dense, one dense city core with its current small surface. So when we look at the mileage of the roads that are on those surfaces, then it's in a very unfavourable position, so the small county cities that have county centers with a small population. Can you or can you do something about it in another reading? It would be good to consider that. When Mrs. Hursa started moaning about, the justified poorlings, in connection with the Zagorsko-krapin County roads, then I must say, Mr. Secretary of State that in the new budget and extra budget funds of the Republic of Croatia that you have adopted, there is still no, I would say one of the most difficult and worst cases, so there is no speech or investment in the construction of a state road 423 that passes through almost the centre of Slavonski Brod and which will not belong to the town of Slavonski Brod, given that the state road is so categorized, and the underpass in Slavonski Brod, which in some visions is designed for construction and even somehow within the eastern bound road. When Mr. Sanader promised construction of the eastern road in Slavonski Brod and the southern bypass around Nova Gradiška on September 22, 2005, and we have, therefore, a pan-European railway corridor passing 60 trains a day and 60 times closes a noose, and 16 thousand vehicles were numbered a year and a half ago to pass that road with 60 stops a day. Still, neither you in the ministry nor in the Croatian Roads does it occur to you, obviously, to solve this problem. And some other cases are being solved. The citizens of Slavonski Brod are really unhappy with this solution, and we have a problem in Nova Gradišca where there is also an industrial park, and trucks due to the low profile of overpasses can't make it to the industrial park. And that's the problem. And the south bypass of Nova Gradiška. So, the Croatian government comes to Slavonski Brod, comes to Slavonia promise and then does not execute any of it, especially in this particular case I am talking about infrastructure road facilities that are really necessary in this part, I guess we Croatia are there, even though we are called Slavonia and Baranja. As regards this very Legislative proposal, how my associates wrote that it is relatively good, that it is in line with the European Union directives and that we have no reason not to accept it in the first reading, but I cannot take this opportunity to tell you in the Ministry what really slows us down and what is really high time to take care of the Ministry and the Croatian Roads and the Croatian Railways that have that 10. The Pan-European corridor to give permission once before to build, or it's just an alibi for the state so it doesn't invest in an underpass in the Slavon ship. In the first reading, we will clearly be for this Road Law proposal, and for the corrections and these remarks that are well-intentioned, not with any evil or bad faith here, the HDSB Club will be for the Road Law Proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64572	Thank you. We have three corrections of incorrect allegations. First, the esteemed representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64573	Thank you. Well, you said to your colleague Grubisic that the county centres with a smaller population are in a more unfavourable position than those of more vehicles and more inhabitants, and that I hold it incorrectly because, according to this proposal, the criteria are being evened out and there are overruns from those who have more vehicles and inhabitants to those who are smaller by the number of vehicles and inhabitants, so this is one positive equalisation so that everyone can function regardless of the size and size of the population.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64574	Thank you. We have another correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Nada Čavlović Smiljanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64575	Well, my colleague Grubisic, I would correct your incorrect quote when you said that institutions can't be taxpayers of profit tax, it's simply not true. The institutions can be taxpayers in case you, you said, I understood it so, that they can't be taxpayers. So institutions can be taxpayers if they are engaged in profit activities. You have an example of an institution for assistance and care in a house that is also called an institution but is a taxpayer of profit tax, so the name of an institution itself does not mean that they are not taxpayers of profit, they do not have to be companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64576	Thank you. Let's move on with the corrections, it's the distinguished representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64577	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, I am correcting your incorrect claim that I have regretted it, and I am sorry that you have experienced it this way. Namely, I have justifiably made a criticism and a legitimate request that all regions develop evenly both my Green Zagorje and your beautiful golden Slavonian plain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64578	Thank you. We are going to an individual debate, and the first in line is the honourable representative of Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64579	Dear Vice President, representatives of the motion. One of the key reasons why it went into the creation of a new Law on Roads is the obligation created by amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government since 2007 when public roads are said to be in the area of large cities, and large cities with more than 35,000 inhabitants and county headquarters will be placed on the management of these large cities. That's exactly how the Law defines it. Here we have waited almost three years to get to the bill that would allow large cities to have, but then this bill ignores the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government which it has defined in such a way because if we read this Law, then de facto we do not teach or give public road management to large cities, but we turn public roads in the area of large cities into unpublic roads. So we end public road status, turn them into something called city roads, and then these city roads have unclassified roads. So, above all, the proposal that city roads are defined in the terms of this Act, that city roads are defined as public roads, and that public roads should be county and local roads in the area of the big city, and I also suggest that you define all types of roads in some technical characteristics because I think this Law that should be defined is no, which, for example, connects the state road or what connects the county road, rather than what the state road or the county road must look like. I have to say how much the minimum corridor of Kolovoza must have, which is an integral part of the road and within which deadlines such a standard must ultimately be made. We also have an absurdity that, for example, when we say what is an integral part of a public road, then that standard is lower than what we define to be an unclassified road. So for example, we say that the unclassified road also makes public lighting, and that public lighting is not described as some standard element of the public road. So, the proposal is to define the city road as a public road at the beginning and to keep that city road in public road status and then just consistently through the law to drag the city roads as public roads. Four-fifths of the law applies to public roads, one-fifth applies to everything else, to city roads, to unclassified roads, to transitional and final provisions and to inspection controls. In that part, we are only talking about unclassified roads here and there, we are talking about ownership, enrolment in grantovnica, standard but all of this about public roads, such as excessive use, such as infrastructure, etc., does not apply to unclassified roads or city roads that we put in a special category. So we'll work out a lot if we define city roads as public roads in the area of big work. Because we make sense that the city road, the county road that becomes a city road in the big city area, ceases to be a public road, and the same road in another city that is not a big city remains a county road still remains public road and still has more sources of financing, a different way of managing, another standard etc. Moreover, in a completely different position, local self-government units should be placed in a completely different position than that defined here in this law. First of all, I think it is absolutely inappropriate for this law to derivate the provisions of the Law on the Communist Economy, because you here say in an article that construction and reconstruction of public roads are not being paid for by a municipal contribution. I don't think you can predict this by this law, because the Law on the Communist Economy has said what a municipal contribution is paid to. Therefore, if you do not want a municipal contribution to be paid, then you must go to amend the Law on the municipal economy. Just as in Article 80, I think you're saying that the Public-private Partnership Act will apply to road construction under the public-private partnership model. Well, that makes sense. So you can't determine whether something wills or won't, because we said in the Public-private Partnership Act what this law refers to, and it refers to all public-private partnerships in the Republic of Croatia. So that's one unnecessary article in this law. Furthermore, you have the Waste Act. The waste law said that the polluter pays therefore cannot then in this law provide that when the sewerage is part of the local sewerage, then draining and purification of water from the state road goes to the burden of local self-government, and when it is not part of the local sewerage then the owner of the road pays the drain and purification of that same water. So, according to the Waste Act, a national principle has been introduced that says the pay polluter. Since vehicle owners pay compensation for the use of public roads from that public road fee, what happens on that public road must be paid, whether it passes through the settlement or not, regardless of who will provide the service of what happens as a result of that road. Thus, Article 27 cannot say that local sewerage will build and pay for the disposal and purification of local or local self - government rather than simply stand to pay for it by the owner of that road. So, for highways, highways, for the state roads of the Croatian highways, for the County roads of the ZUCs. Because otherwise, we're bringing local self-government into a completely unequal position. You know when you build a road in the area of the unit of local self-government, then Croatian roads or County Road Administration requires you to make a rain drain that will connect you to a local sewerage network. So, first they condition you to do something, you have to finance it, and then eventually you have to pay the result of the pollution resulting from the use of the road on which these county road administrations or Croatian roads charge compensation for using it. Furthermore, much is predicted here to be dealt with by various rules by the minister. It is necessary in the law to define within which time limits the minister will adopt those rules and to define that these rules should be such as to remove any discretionary right of any minister to decide beyond the criteria which are very clear and very unequivocal. Because it cannot happen that, for example, on the proposal of ZUC, my county minister has decreed that in my town's area, a third of the county roads stop being public roads and become unclassified roads from the following criteria, so Minister Kalmeta explains: "The proposal to do so was a lack of financial resources and, consequently, the inability to maintain those roads". So, ZUC from my county writes Minister Kalemeti, the minister we don't have the money to maintain county roads, would you transfer it to the city's burden on the unclassified road. And Minister Calmeta has mercy and says you see the ZUC has no money to give it to the city so let him take care of those roads. So we have to have unequivocal criteria that will remove the possibility of political arbitration in determining what something is county and what isn't, which is something city and what isn't. That's why we need to get technical characteristics started. And a closing sentence. The Association of Cities has made very concrete proposals on how to calculate the redistribution of the funds collected together. I think the proposal is correct and it would be good to respect it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64580	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64581	My colleague Mršić, when you mentioned this program of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, here I have it here... 2009-2011. I would like to refer to you and mention another problem, and this is the problem of this government that has put into its program, or they have been doing it for a long time, the fast road of Varazdin-Krapina means the road that connected 4 cities, and these are Varazdin, Ivanec, Lepoglava, Krapina. It is a road which is one road necessary for the development of this entire region which has connected three counties, we can tell Međimurka, Varazdinska, Krapinska and Zagorje County, because we can also say that without one such link it is difficult to run all business zones that are possible in that area, since it is 50 km away. These business zones would certainly employ new workers and thus help to develop this region, which is unfortunately forgotten by this government. Since this is a road that only extends from year to year from year, and nothing is done on this issue, we can also conclude that unfortunately, since HDZ has not won these three counties, that in this way indirectly punish citizens who are not given the opportunity to build one such road, one such project would certainly help develop all three counties primarily Varazdinska, Krapinska and Zagorska and connect several cities. There are a number of business, economic areas that could be activated, but no one wants to invest since there is no good road.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64582	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64583	So you see, fellow Habek, we here in the Croatian Parliament have never been in a position to have someone submit a report on what has been made out of the purposely collected gas funds, i.e. from compensation for the use of public roads. And as you have been exposed to great promises that your road will be made and I am exposed to a great promise that A11 and A12 will be in the Križevci, 2011 in Koprivnica or Virovitica. But the thing is, this law should define the real criteria and then responsibility based on these real criteria. You see, this law stipulates that the government is adopting a strategy to build and maintain public roads in the Republic of Croatia, so it means county and local roads, and that the minister is making a plan for what will be done. I think we should have wunderkind as a minister so he can come up with a plan that each local road will be built and maintained in the area of some county or now town. So it would be logical for the government to take care of highways and state roads, and for the county and county road administrations to take care of roads in the area, county and local roads. But then we need to know what the means are and we need to get a report on what was built out of those 0,60 kunas from the gasoline. We can't think that something is, or that something isn't. Unfortunately, neither does this law foresee that a representative body in Croatia, which is the Parliament, has any insight into the state of transport infrastructure in Croatia. We will not, therefore, receive a record of what roads are like, nor what was done, nor how any money or how that money was spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64584	Thank you. I must warn others. You're replicating something he didn't speak of at all in his presentation Mr. Mršić, and he's again responding not to your replica. I mean, we stick to the subject and we have to stick to it. We're moving on with an individual discussion. Dear Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64585	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues from the ministry, my colleagues and my colleagues. Well, here I am glad that this law has corrected some discrimination, but only for 100% blind people, however, there remain, of course, other 100% disabled people who are still discriminated against by this law. I would actually talk today about the ranking of these roads that we saw in fact in these discussions before there are no real criteria where you would rank the roads and precisely because of what your colleague said before me, I think the best thing would be technical criteria, in order to satisfy it better than those as they are now. In fact, reading this law has brought confusion to me in definitions. So we have Article 2 paragraph 1 of point 5, where local roads and roads are described there in the urban area that connect urban districts with the county roads, connect neighbouring urban districts to each other and are classified as local roads according to this law. When you look at Article 98, it says that the unclassified roads are roads that connect settlements, roads that connect neighboring urban districts to each other or parts of the settlement. The only difference is the fact that the local roads are sorted, and the roads in the settlement are not. It should also be noted that according to the applicable Regulation on criteria for the classification of local road public roads were roads in the urban area connecting urban districts with the county roads and roads connecting neighbouring urban districts to each other. Despite this, however, two county roads in Dubrovnik have been wiped off the public road list even though they had conditions for classification on local roads. Of course, this will now reflect the suspension of the compensation provided for in Article 107 of the new law where, of course, funding of unclassified roads is now going from the budget of local self-government units. Perhaps the confusion over the name of the road also creates a non-compliance of concepts with the road law of the Road Safety Act where we have in Article 2 it is written that the road is every public road, street in a settlement and unclassified road on which traffic is carried out, where public road is an area of general importance for traffic which everyone can freely use under the conditions laid down by this law and which has been declared public road by the competent authority. Now, the Road Safety Act introduced the concept of the street in the settlement for the first time, but it's not particularly explained. At the same time, the unclassified road states that this is the area used for traffic on any basis and available to a large number of different users, with rural, Polish, forest roads, roads and flood defenses, access roads, parking spaces, gas stations, etc. So I can suggest that in the new Law on Roads, which is now a new concept of the city road, which the colleague spoke about, all these names should be aligned with the name of the Road Safety Act, in particular with the provisions of Articles 2 and 98. The Law on Roads, which are listed in Article 2 and Article 98, speaks of unclassified roads. As on our occasion, the largest part of the traffic, including fuel consumption and road use, is carried out in cities and urban roads in a proportionate distribution of the annual public road use fee, should include so far unclassified roads as well as unclassified roads and urban roads, which will become the result after the adoption of the new criteria set out in Article 7 of this Act, i.e. by the Government or Minister. However, as counterpart Mršić said, there are no real criteria, i.e. they are not objective because it can happen in some county that, for example, does. There's a little vehicle going to get a little income, and there's a lot of miles to which you actually need to spend a lot of money. I'd like to take another look at property-legal relations. Namely, there is a huge difference in the price of real estate in various parts of our beautiful one. So we have a problem with Dubrovnik where it's a square meter. Therefore, whether it is possible to say, determine the unique amount of real estate fees for construction, reconstruction and maintenance of public roads, unclassified roads and urban roads. I'm not sure we can do the same, but can we do some kind of graduation in view of the huge price differences in real estate? Then I would also say something about enrolling unclassified city roads. In fact, Articles 129, 130 regulates the entry of these roads into land books, so we also know that we have a large number of examples that public roads, especially city streets, were built on land that was registered as common folk good in land books. However, in addition to the wheel surfaces, municipal installations have been built into this and equipment and now, of course, this land in land books is listed as private property of formerly existing social enterprises of natural persons. And now it happens that some of the owners have fenced their property. They even require the move of bus stations, etc. And I hope, in fact, that this law will get rid of it, regulate it. And lastly, I can tell you about the Dubrovnik-Neretva County, we don't even have a metre of highways. As far as state roads are concerned, we have 396 km, of which in the city of 28 km, we have county roads, local roads have 644 km, in Dubrovnik 42 km. And once again, I would like to emphasise that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a Regulation on criteria for the classification of public roads. However, it is not clear why the former county road road Iva Vojnovica is not included in local roads run by ZUC, although it fully meets the criteria of local roads. Therefore, once again, I stress the need for technical criteria for road classification. Here, I hope that in the second reading it will be clearer and that the remarks you heard from our discussions will be appreciated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64586	Thank you. We have one replica, the distinguished representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64587	Well, colleagues here when you're talking about ownership there's another additional absurd that should definitely change in the final bill, and that's the question of paying off the service when the property is owned by a local self-government unit, and there's a public road on that land. Then it is said that in that case the service is not paid. So here we come again to the fact that what is owned by the units of local self-government is not owned. We must define property as property regardless of who is the title of that property and we must treat each type of ownership in the same way. Because, for example, when you build public lighting along the state road, Croatian roads pay nicely for your service for the use of roadland. When you build a sewer along the state road, then state roads charge you for the use of roadland. But when that road is on land owned by a unit of local self-government, then it should not pay the service to use that land. I'm about not to be paid, but then let the land be bought, paid to the units of local self-government as well as to all other owners. So you can't own a local self-government unit being treated as if it wasn't owned. Finally, a strict application of the Property Act and other real rights should be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64588	Thank you. The answer to the replica, the esteemed representative, at least that's how I understood the hand. You must have a tile, please. But all right, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64589	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague of Mrsic's, you basically said the problem that bothers all of us in local self-government when building any infrastructure. And just as we were saying today, we could say a hundred examples that we are facing, and that is why it is necessary to define more clearly this concept of service that we know how to correct at certain times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64590	Thank you very much. The following has been reported for the debate by distinguished counterpart Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64591	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Our roads are being modernised, and it makes perfect sense to finally get a modern new Law on Roads. In every sense, however, it must mean, first of all, the protection of the public good. Our roads, our highways were built with public money, built with taxpayers' money. That is why, at the beginning, I believe that at no cost should abdicate from the definition of the public road as it had, as the law so far has done. In fact, the existing law defines the road, public road as a public good in general use owned by the Republic of Croatia outside legal traffic on which no right of ownership can be acquired, etc. The new bill relativates the matter and says public roads, roads are classified as public roads. So we have one pathology, we have one definition without any content. Which is why the government is afraid to leave and define public roads as in the current law. Is this way one step further to selling highways or roads in a money shortage? Sometime later, I will say what is with concessions that define in a slightly different way, i.e. enables concessions than the concession law states, and even then the Public Procurement Act, which is referred to by the concession law itself. Those of us here who have been burned out of what we haven't gotten out of yet until today, Croatia has been traumatized by this privatisation. Are we now, as a proposal for a law on water, some other laws and, therefore, in this law, preparing privatisation and sales at a small door. You'll say it's not like that. But then I tell you not to give up, because there's no reason to give up the definition of public road and give public roads full content. Public roads are roads not only defined as public roads, but must certainly be defined as those in public use. Because that's exactly the term that then removes any possible anti-ciption at any time and anyone else so that these highways can be privatized. Why does the law not speak of a public private partnership spoken of by the Law on concessions? Let new roads, let new highways be built by public private partnerships, but what was built on public money, so taxpayers' money we haven't even gotten rid of yet there are still big debts in that sense, but these debts, i.e. loans, are funded, serviced, and not, I see some unclean thing here, which needs to be fixed by the final proposal in any case. Furthermore, when we were during Racan's government and Racan asked experts if we could build a highway in three years, do we have financial resources for it? Some braver ones encouraged him and said that he could do it. That's how it's done. But I have to tell you why I'm bringing it up. He's not doing any propaganda, he's doing it because the pedal didn't even get into somebody's land. There were units of local self-government, it was private, which was the most important in private property, that it was not paid in advance, and the entire highway was registered in land books. That is why 5 hundred ZK referents were provided and educated, which were specifically educated as reinforcements, especially in highway-by-road courts. These people were later fired, although the job has not been settled as far as some other matters are concerned, it is a pity that the state did not have the money to solve these people and the deficits because a lot of resources were spent in their education. These are specialist skills that are not acquired in any high school, which is mostly people refer to medium professional training. So today we have a situation, and it's been happening a lot lately that our senior officials, when they found out, had to cancel a certain section's opening ceremony, because they found out they didn't have the necessary documentation, and I'm not talking about people being paid off. People today what's been built lately, a few last years people haven't been paid a fair fee. And more like not even mentioning that law of confiscation of property for a time that bore such a pompous name that it would in some way reflect the horror of that system that took away people's private property and didn't pay them. Let us remind ourselves of the Law on Land Abduction during the Yugoslav communist rule. Today, there is no mention of this law at all, very little, and it is weak and handled, and here, even when road construction is taken away from people private property, and for this they do not receive compensation, they do not receive adequate compensation or receive it with a painful trial. It can't be. The state better not build anything, if it doesn't build up honestly at the beginning, because I say it has far-reaching consequences, otherwise as citizens, as business partners behave and say that there are far-reaching and fatal consequences for strengthening our business and civic morality, which is ugly and often the public behaviour of the public authority, and the highest, with the highest levels, that we don't even speak from local levels. I would especially like to point out, something more has been said about my colleagues before, but why the law, and it's existing, I think it was his fault, and I think that if we update the law to spread some better messages, and unclassified roads, why if we already have, we have defined which roads, that concept of unclassified road does not reflect the true state of things and should call them local roads. I know the law mentions local roads, but then they can be local roads, two kinds of local roads. The term unclassified roads as if the law did not know what to do with them, so he sorted them there somewhere, and that's not so, because they have their definitions, especially Mršić talked about it, about the way they finance, and about that kind of roads, local roads and these unclassified ones. I would especially like to point out then in that part that the state cannot behave that the units of local self-government are something that is the auxiliary wheels of the state, and in a situation where it has not decentralised the funds and these are already the things that have been sang, and it has decentralised their obligations and tasks, and that in terms of the former... , i.e. county roads and now these local, or unclassified roads act as if there were no roads, i.e. to give them this status in order not to finance or co-finance in that particular ratio which is now mentioned, but in a significantly smaller part than it has done so so far. [[You don't understand.]] Similarly, if concessions are mentioned here, others are mentioned, other than ownership of other real rights on the roads, there is no logic whatsoever that in principle, it is another thing that I said earlier often does not execute, but that it provides legal, legal compensation, of course and obligation, and that the state is not obliged to the units of local self-government when it decides to make roads of such meaning, of national importance. This cannot be, it simply needs to respect the autonomy and legal personality of the units of local self-government, that we do not say that it is contrary to the law which defines the rights, duties and obligations of the unit of local self-government and their partial work. Therefore, there we see already the discrimination between this law and this law, we must build a single legal system, not only because of those to which it applies, but those to which these laws will apply, because they will often come into collage. So, according to the fact that it's not a content problem, and even this normative one, I see the problem here, so please agree to another reading, but equally so that the units of local self-government are evenly equaled with the status of the person to whom it is taken away, or to control its property for road construction purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64592	Thank you very much, colleague Anticevic. Millivio Schwartz next reported. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64593	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Road Law proposal regulates some of the important issues in this area in a much clearer way, which have been opening up for some time and seeking new legal solutions. And they have come from the first major changes that have occurred in this area in recent years and the second from the experiences gained in support of the need for a new Law on Roads after as many as 6 amendments to the law. Further decentralisation in road management, especially introduction for the first time so-called. urban roads in the area of large cities with more than 35,000 inhabitants and cities of county headquarters should bring new quality to governance. But I agree with these discussions where it was warned that care should be taken, especially in cities, whether these are administrative boundaries or whether they are the limits of the area of the city's narrow settlement. This is a big difference and in certain criteria it is very important to take into account. What is particularly to be supported in this bill is the tightening of public road protection measures. Large investments in road construction in recent years, especially when it comes to newly built highways, give the legislator the right to protect his investments in a timely and adequate manner. In addition, such measures should certainly contribute to greater transport security, which is always the ultimate objective of any legal solution in this area. One of the most important issues covered by this law is the one related to the book of land books. We will all agree that one of the fundamental issues that proves the legal arrangement of a country is exactly the state of the land books. Public roads cannot be excluded from this, for this reason I welcome the proposal that today's unsettled situation and the settlement of ownership issues and the possibility of enrolling the inalienable ownership of the Republic of Croatia over its public roads finally be resolved. There has already been a talk here on electronic toll collection, this proposal will allow further compliance with EU legislation since we are expected to implement the European toll payment model. I would especially like to warn you about what I said on the Committee on Transport, to appeal to the Ministry to try to organize that the Zagreb-Macelj highway also includes the possibility of charging the ENC because we see traveling through Croatia and on Croatian highways and on the Zagreb-Rijeka highways full compatibility and a very convenient passage through the way of charging the ENC that also allows for a reduction of crowds and many other problems. For local communities, the idea of an unclassified road is of particular importance. This proposal regulates the unclassified road as a public good in the general administration and owns the units of local self-government. The current legal gaps should be resolved because the law provides for a definition of which roads, which makes up components of unclassified roads, prescribes their entry in land books and how property-legislative relations are resolved when they are built and reconstructed, which in practice is often shown as a problem. The proposal for this law also extends the rights for persons who have been diagnosed with a physical impairment of 100% vision, i.e. their release from the payment of tolls as we know it has been sought so far, unfortunately it has not been resolved, and this is commendable that part is included. And finally a little review of the problem and the road situation in the Krapina-Zagor County area. My colleague Hursa said she was skeptical. I'm not skeptical, but I'm using the secretary of state here to try to push the law we've passed here, and that was the last... where Zagorje has 4 directions for reconstruction in the Batterment programme, and this is an old Zagorje road we know from Zapresic towards Zabok; D205 it is from Zabok towards Kumrovec in the length of 11 km is a reconstruction; then it is an approach road towards Marija Bistrica by the Zagreb County of Laz-Marija Bistrica and Krapina-Valentinovo and one very important, but in a very poor state of roads. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All assumptions have been made, the law has been passed on the confirmation of that contract and I appeal if one, and I know that apparently one of these roads has not been solved as far as the projects are concerned, that at least a package of those three other roads will be made a competition. Em, it's about roads that are really in bad shape, and I think it's also a matter of hiring large-scale construction facilities. I would also look back on one situation, the question of the Zagreb-Macelj highway. When we travel through Croatia, we see that almost everywhere along the highways there are beech dams built and as far as the rear part of the road from Krapina to Macelj is concerned, but on this part which was already mentioned as a state road used in the highway, which is a move from Zabok to Krapina, primarily with the settlements Zabok and St. The bukobran cross wasn't made. There have been certain protests and everything, so I appeal if we can somehow talk to the concessionaire to do everything possible to get to those bozos. I'll take advantage of the opportunity, I don't think habeka has any here, he likes to say one part of the county that isn't like this, or they're not like that, so they're cut off. You know, we've managed to find out at this point that one road that's right on the border with the Varazdin County, which is D24 that leads from Zlatar Bistrica through Konjština, goes Budinščina, Hrasčina, it's currently running, it's a project of some 30 million kunas, but for years we've been a little bit and jealous that the part that's on the Varazdin part is really made almost like a highway, which should be praised. And I think that my colleague Habek doesn't have the slightest right to talk about it either or my colleague Mihalic, but that it is much invested, and I believe that Croatian roads and the ministry are taking care of it, that even investment is only a problem if there is no money or if there are no projects anywhere, or if there is no opportunity to be all at once but I believe in good intentions, good will and correctness, and legally everything will be taken care of what is both in county and state roads. There's this program that the minister has a special part for county programs that I think I'm appealing if possible, to increase the funds there to make certain interventions on the county roads, in the area of our county, because we're participants in the bad weather that's been going on all year long, and right now, a lot of slides have opened up on local and county roads, and I think that's where we need to engage with bigger resources, and not just us. We are witnessing that the rinks and the part of the Varazdin County, now I will say, something in favor, the issue of Misery and that part needed a lot of resources. I also draw to some conclusions that were both on the Committee on Transport and reading the conclusions of the Committee of the Local Administration that many of the solutions spoken of, I think it is necessary to consider them seriously until the second reading and try as much as possible to include them in order to make as many things as possible, and their intention is certainly true, to resolve that the Law is as high-quality as possible. I will uphold the law in my first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64594	Thank you very much, colleague Schwartz. It is next for the debate, the distinguished representative of counterpart Niko Rebic. Here you go, Comrade Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64595	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is one of those bill proposals that we can say without delay that it is well prepared and made and that it is a major improvement compared to the current law. The Law on Public Roads regulates the legal status of roads, protection measures, concessions, management, financing, supervision, the law was passed in 2004 and has had several amendments and additions throughout this time, but until the December 2009 amendments, public roads had legal status of general interest for the Republic of Croatia. And from this moment on, there is no colleague Anticevic, which has resulted in a whole series of problems. First of all, I mean property-legal jobs that are created by construction, reconstruction and maintenance of public roads, because when the public road has the status of a general good, the entire property that has been invested to build a public road enters the general good regime. As a result, a significant part of the expropriated land was not used for the purposes to which it could be used, regardless of its entry into the roadside of the public road. This new Road Law proposal, not more about public roads, solves and better regulates a number of complex issues in the implementation of the Law on Public Roads. It is necessary to edit books related to the registration of public roads in land books, management, i.e. It will be easier to decentralisation, to strengthen public road protection provisions, but to install into the Law the provisions of the new guidelines of the European Union in the area of road safety and toll tolls adopted in 2009 and 2010. What is necessary to pass a new law is the poor implementation of the 2005 Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Law contains provisions that counties and large cities, and cities of county headquarters are entrusted with public road maintenance tasks, the implementation of this public road law, did not properly resolve this proposal. In fact, county road administrations have been fully transferred to the authority of maintenance, construction and total management of county and local roads, and large cities, so those cities that cross 35 thousand inhabitants are not given jurisdiction over public roads or in any segment. What the existing Law on Public Roads also does not regulate makes way a road network system in the Republic of Croatia that is governed by two laws. Public roads Law on public roads, and unclassified roads by the Law on the municipal economy. Thus, a separate and different arrangement of a simple road network system has proved impractical in respect of entities participating in the implementation of these laws and in relation to the interrelation of public and unclassified roads. This Act proposes to designate the unclassified roads as a public good in general use owned by units of local self-government in which it is located. They cannot be estranged from the ownership of a local self-government unit, nor can they acquire real rights other than the right of service and the right to build buildings in accordance with the decision of the representative body. In addition to the legal unclassified road, this Law proposes to determine which roads are prescribed in the book, as well as the management and financing of unclassified roads. In the manner and with the application of the provisions governing the municipal economy. The Article 106, which regulates the management of unclassified roads, may provide that the management, construction and maintenance of unclassified roads should be duly applied to the provision of public roads. Maybe. It should be considered whether in this article, it should then be prescribed that local self-government units for construction, management or maintenance can establish a legal person and then the legal person from the local self-government unit gets to keep records of these unclassified roads. What I hold particularly important, and what will be obtained by adopting this Law, are provisions governing public road books in land books, which will result in the settlement of the effective state of ownership in relation to today's unregulated land-book situation and which will allow the registration of inalienable ownership of the Republic of Croatia on public roads. So, in the end, I'd say that one road that's been causing lately has actually fallen and that's road D1 so from Dugopolje to Karlovac. It is a road that suffers by opening the highway a large isolation and publicity in those areas that are very far away from this highway there is not only no quality road, but it does not have as many bus lines as it should have, and no one would say those places are much, much less connected to what they used to be. Sometimes these small places like Vrlika, Slunja, Gračaca had as many lines as the town of Split. Today, it's so much less. There should be ways to subsidize these lines, something like on islands so that people can communicate and, of course, invest more in reflecting that road, because it is year and year more abandoned. Otherwise, as I said at the beginning here, it's done by one well-prepared law, so I'm going to support it, and I think in the second reading it's going to be even more quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64596	Thank you very much. And we have a final application for an individual hearing. Dear colleague Vlatko Podnar. Here's your colleague, Podnar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64597	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, by reading this bill, I've come across a little bit of illogicality or a little archaism, and I can say so, and it's primarily cutting down the forest. It's mentioned here in a few parts of the forest. A long time ago, the forest was thought to be a deforestation to bring new values or new surfaces. I think it would also be better to use the name of the forest exploitation products in this sense, because in Croatia, according to the Law on Forests of the State Lords of the Croatian Forests or on private forest owners, the consultative service now under the Croatian Forests is not mentioned anywhere, nor about the Law on Forests, cut the forest, but also about the products of forest exploitation, because, according to the Law on Forests, forest lords in the Republic of Croatia are also mentioned. I understand why he left that name but I'd like him to change into the products of exploiting the forest because he's more logical and appropriate to the forest law. I also found myself in one place that it was forbidden to draw beams, balvanas, branches, etc. on the public road. We also think that we should change the trees and parts of the tree, because the beams of concrete will certainly not drag on the public road, and by the beam we usually believe that it is a wasted building, and then it is called a beam, and the balvanies are not going to re-enter the balvana revolution in Croatia, so we do not need that name. So I think it's better to be trees and parts of the tree, because then both trunks and branches are forbidden to pull. When I read article 42. The Law on Public Roads, in particular paragraph 2, where it states that "in the case of detached from the forest-economic area of forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia for construction, reconstruction and maintenance of public roads no compensation is paid for the transferred rights prescribed by law, which determines the management of the forest." The fact is that the Law on Forests also provides for compensation for the separation of the forest-economic base of the area, as regards land compensation and compensation for unused wood mass and general useful forest functions. So according to the rule on the calculation of that fee, in this case it would be clear that it's only for the construction of state roads, that it's only for the construction of highways. But under public roads, both county and local roads are included. I have to because I know from experience that a lot of local and county roads were made out of the funds of former legal ancestors of the Croatian Forests, meaning former forest economies, and that these roads were now renamed to local roads either on the county roads and then there was a problem, who should maintain the roads there. Croatian forests are no longer mandatory, no matter how much they take advantage of these roads, and local self-government or municipalities, although under the Forest Law, they are not being spent on the development of infrastructure and are simply not enough to maintain these roads. So I think that for this very reason, we need to separate here what is the interest of the Republic of Croatia, and what is the interest of the units of local self-government or county and municipalities and cities and how much of this road will really be in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, and that it is then exempt from payment fees under the rules on the billing for lost value of forests and forest land. I say this for the simple reason that this can be a simple attack on forests and forest land wherever anyone remembers it will connect two places and will declare that it is of interest, it does not have to pay the exemption fee from the forest-economic base of the area, or under that regulation, and the Croatian forests and the Republic of Croatia are left without forest and forest land, which then has nothing to return or buy another land, another forest that will remain similar to the surface. Then we also have the concept of overuse of public roads introduced here and again mentioning the cutting of forests, so again note that change it into products and exploitation and here says what is excessive use. The fact that I am returning to some built-up, forest traffic or roads that were used in the opening, primary opening of forests and forest land and are now declared public roads, whether county or local character, and on them local and county roads place signs of restrictions on axle loads at 5, 10 tonnes depending on how anyone remembers that this should not be exploited. Therefore, I would ask for some clarification of this notion of excessive use since, according to the Transport Safety Act, Article 154 provides that the overall load capacity should not exceed 40 tonnes of truck composition, while I think the regulation predicts that in the case of a vehicle over 40 tonnes of wages, an increased fee for the use of the right road means when registering. Is this excessive use of public roads or is it something else, or is it just the part that applies to county roads, or local roads, which are then limited by these signs of traffic, and then a permit for increased road load must be sought. It now turns out that in two ways, i.e. the owners of such truck positions, whether within the Croatian Forests, whether private truck owners, private carriers, will have to pay for this at least. It goes on to say that the minister will bring in the rules on which that fee will be charged, whether it will be then and how much it will be paid. Because in this way and the part that, if we talk about rural development, and we know where the forests are in rural areas, are we going to put even more pressure on that tree with the price of production or the price of transport, or are we going to allow rural development, where possible, that as little that tree travels from, say, Zagreb to the highway or vice versa to the Vinkovci, that as much as possible, it is processed and spilled near these rural places or municipal places that are closer to it. It has already been mentioned here that for the compensation of game damage, it is obvious that drivers who have such a close encounter with any kind of savages will not be able to make their damages under this bill. Because according to Article 16, Croatia's roads or county roads will always say that, we have done everything, only you haven't adjusted the speed of road conditions, and the gamer doesn't know if it's an expensive car, whether it's cheap, whether it's a truck, whether it's anything. I've had such a close encounter so just a deer pops up in front of your car, and if you couldn't see it from the woods, you can't see it, you can't see it. So I think it's either it or it's turned through hunting insurance, and they've taken off the Hunting Law to say so from that obligation or through mandatory car insurance that will then be able to cover the costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64598	Thanks a lot, buddy. We've exhausted all the applications for an individual hearing. In conclusion, on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Mr Tomislav Mihotić. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64599	Thank you. I'll try to comment on the basis of basic remarks. First of all, clubs were asking questions about the coverage of city roads. We will certainly consider this until the second reading and define the exact boundaries and ways in which the city roads will be determined. left to cities and municipalities to manage. As far as financing city roads is concerned, they are partly financed as unclassified roads, the possibility remains from municipal contribution and municipal compensation. On the other hand, those funds are now transferred in the way the ZUCs are financed. Therefore, by virtue of what is provided for in the law, those funds should, according to mileage, be transferred to cities and municipalities to the authority of cities and municipalities. Thus, the funds for registration of the vehicle and those for the price of 0.6 for the Croatian roads are provided to the ŽUCs on the basis of the criteria, but they are mainly the criteria of underdevelopment in that part and the criteria of the county's strength. So, the county with a lower budget gets a higher percentage of these funds, and therefore cities located in the area of these counties will on average receive more funds than those cities located in developed counties. But that's certainly the thing that we're finally going to do with the Association of Municipalities and Cities, and with the ZUCs' Association until the end of the second reading, you're going to have an answer to what kind of proposal it's going to be. The questions that were about the game, there were plenty of them. We'll match all those related to the Hunting Law to the Roads Act. Some provisions of the Hunting Law have already been put out of force, and we have done so in a way. We'll try to simulate all the situations you've talked about and see in the finality in what way and how responsibility will be shared between all of those factors that are listed inside. Establishing the right of service and the right to build on a public road, this was also a question of liberating the municipal contribution of municipalities and cities, i.e. public roads when working in the area of municipalities and cities. It is true that this provision has been put in place, but there are also provisions that make the situation easier for municipalities and cities. That's how it is, for example. One of these provisions in Article 86(5) and (6) where the establishment of the right of service or the right to build on a public road is referred to because these fees do not pay municipalities and cities when they operate installations, and it is defined which installations mean water, electricity, sewerage, etc. in the area of public road. So they're freed in that case. They were also released, i.e. They are facilitated by the situation in the management where there have been a lot of objections with overpasses and underpasses where it is now defined that the higher level of road in these cases bear the costs of maintenance of these facilities. So, where the state road is cut down with a city or unclassified road there, the complete cost of maintaining the structure of that object is borne by means of higher-ranking roads. Therefore, this is also the situation where the position of municipalities and cities is facilitated by the costs they have in maintaining these funds. As for concerns about the possibility of privatising public roads through these provisions that the law provides. Article 3 provides that public roads are public good in general use owned by the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, I see nothing unclean about what could happen to the future status of public roads. Now these technical questions related for example to Zagreb – Macelj, ENC problem and ENC inclusion. There's a fact. Otherwise, the whole law goes in this direction to accept, among other things, the European Directives that speak about that in the future, all highway systems across Europe would be integrated into one ENC. These assumptions are established through the provisions of this Act, and only putting into the common ENC system in the territory of Croatia at the highway Zagreb – Macelj has one technical problem. That highway has one break of 3.8 km and we will certainly make sure that this road is finally completed to full profile on both sides. Now the use of these 3.8 kilometers is working to break in the system eventually if we put it in the ENC system. Then there should be interruptions and complicated coordination and putting it into the overall system of all highways in the Croatian area. Therefore, in the future it will be worked on but today it is simply for technical reasons problematic. As regards the comments concerning the situation on D1 and in the area from Split gave Zagreb as well through Krapina-Zagorje County. There's a whole series of procedures on D1 scheduled. A good part of these procedures is also through the Betterment. Otherwise, as far as only Krapina-Zagorje County is concerned, it is also envisaged by designing a whole series of assumptions that these traffic problems are being solved which are being discussed here. Also, as regards the eastern bypass and overpasses, i.e. Underpass in Slavonski Brod and he is in the plan and in the process. He's currently in the process. Therefore, Croatian roads make assumptions that this problem could be solved, and I hope until the second reading that we will have a more concrete answer on the issue. So I think I've covered most of the problems that came out here. In any case, between the two readings, we will clear up the first row of this city road-related thing and the demarcation of funds between counties and cities and municipalities related to the problem of financing city roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64600	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the quote, dear colleague Boro Grubisic. Here's my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64601	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So, regarding this underpass in Slavonski Brod. In fact, in 22.9.2005, a government decision was made, if the government's decision is binding, then I don't know what's binding in this country if it's not the government's decision, and by now here's five years more and there's nothing left. I wish you could tell me something specifically about it. And that's what the citizens of Broda, the sixth-largest city in Croatia expect from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64602	Comrade Grubisic, you have raised the table of correction of the quote. Any member of parliament by the Rules of Procedure can write a request to the ministry. His government has to go to... the time limit to respond. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think that it's better for you and the citizens to write it down, let them write it down so that the media publishes it, and they'll know then what's the situation, and instead of doing it through the correction table, you solve it. Yes, it is. [[Intruder Grubisic: I wrote, I wrote Mr. Vice President.]] Well, then, that's different. Then I urge you to answer. Thank you very much. With this, we've exhausted the total applications for the debate. I'm closing the agenda. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64603	We move to Road Law Proposal, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 661, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. The Road Law Proposal is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments, proposals and opinions delivered in the debate will be forwarded to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Let's please get involved and vote on this conclusion. Score. This proposal was adopted unanimously by 107 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64604	And according to the agenda we are going to the next point, which is - Final proposal of the law on Croatian broadcasting, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 586. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate under our Rules of Procedure. The Competition Protection Agency submitted a preliminary binding opinion on the basis of the State Aid Act which you also received from the Parliament. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Committee on Tourism, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. Reports from the board's session were received as well. The amendments have so far been submitted by MP Dragutin Lesar, and the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community and representative Ljubica Lukačić. On behalf of the promoter here is the distinguished Culture Minister Bozo Biskupic. He will introduce the bill. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64605	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Let me first state in a few sentences the reasons why this Law is actually being passed. There have been significant changes in the period of adoption of the Law on Croatian Radio Television since 2003, with regard to the way in which the content of public function, public television is determined, and the technological development that assumes the diversification of public television services in view of the different distribution platforms and the digitalisation process. The adoption of a new Law on Electronic Media last year opened the possibility of broadcasting the programme through a general and specialized programme channel, which opens up the possibility for Croatia to produce and broadcast a specialized radio and television programme in order to achieve its role as public television. In addition, significant changes have also taken place within the organisation of public television in Europe in a way that requires a functional approach to organising activities in new market circumstances, an increased number of commercial publishers, with the obligation to comply with state aid rules, and given the way in which public television is financed through tax, and commercial revenues. A particular problem is the financing of public television under emerging circumstances, as Croatian television uses a dualist way of financing its programmes, fees and commercial revenues. The use of these sources of public television financing must be in line with the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision to publish State aid rules for public broadcasting services, which requires that the public function of HRT and the amount of funds for its publication and the control of the spending of funds be determined. Therefore, in the course of the long process more than a year of drafting this law, which was sent in two readings to this High House, and which passed a broad public debate, as many remarks and proposals as possible were made during the public debate. Also between the two readings, most of the proposals that were tabled during the parliamentary debate were accepted. The draft text was also read in the professional services of the European Commission, which were positively reflected in the proposal for this law. The adoption of this final bill will allow for the maintenance of stability and independence of Croatian broadcasting, which is extremely important for cultural and media diversity for media pluralism and democracy, will allow HRT to perform public functions so as not to disrupt the competition at the same time. A stable and responsible HRT management will be ensured, and the financial stability of the HRT will be ensured in line with the European Union's recommendations. The final draft law regulates the status of HRT as a public institution, which carries out the activity of providing public broadcasting services. Croatian broadcasters carry out public broadcasting services activities, and the Republic of Croatia ensures independent and independent financing in accordance with this law and rules on state aid for public broadcasting services. ... The draft law does not regulate the internal organisation of the HRT; this is in line with most European countries to be left to the Statute of the HRT. [[You don't understand.]] There is no single European model of public television organisation, but this is the result of the development of social relations and experiences in certain countries. They are governed by this law by programming principles, and HRT is obliged to permanently, truthfully, impartially, and timelyly inform the public about the facts, events and phenomena in the country and abroad of public interest, to respect and encourage pluralism of political, religious, secular and other ideas, and to allow the public to be familiar with these ideas. HRT must not represent in its programmes views of the interests of a particular political party, as well as any other individual political, religious, secular and other views or interests. HRT has to deal impartially with political, economic, social, religious, health, cultural, educational, scientific, environmental and other issues, allowing for the equal interface of the views of different sources. In the creative processes, it must respect the criteria of excellence, expertise, cultural values and professional competence in terms of national and European standards reached. Before publication must check the source and content of the information according to recognised professional standards of independent journalism, and what must be... information and comments, and make clear comments as a personal opinion of the author. [[You don't understand.]] This law defines the content and functions of public services, so-called public services. public... , the final draft of the law is detailed on which public services are provided by HRT and provides for the conclusion of contracts between the Croatian and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which will more closely regulate the programme obligations of the HRT during the five-year period, as well as the financial framework of its operations. [[You don't understand.]] In particular, we point out that the programme obligations of the HRT are determined after the public debate, in which citizens and all interested persons can participate, so that the public can directly influence the content of the programme commitments which form part of the Croatian and Croatian Government contracts, and, of course, can also monitor whether the HRT implements the contract of defined programme obligations. HRT is obliged to ensure that the European works are a majority share of its annual publication time, and of which at least 40% of these works must be broadcast originally in Croatian, on each general TV channel of HRT. At least 15% of its annual programming budget, HRT is required to provide for the purchase of European works, independent producers, of which half of these funds must be intended for works originally produced in Croatian. Croatian music must account for at least 40% of the use of all music content, Croatian music represents the music of Croatian music authors and/or music performers. A specialized TV channel is projected to broadcast two specialized TV channels, a type established by the contract between HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in addition to two general television channels. HRT bodies are being arranged, the HRT is expected to have management, the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council. The HRT administration shall have a president and two members, who shall appoint the programme board and the supervisory board at the joint session on the basis of a public tender, as one body to the two-thirds majority. The HRT administration manages and manages the work and business of the HRT and develops proposals for the work programme, the financial plan, of course, and others. The Supervisory Board has 5 members, four of them based on a public tender and, on a proposal from the Committee on Information, Information and Media, appoints and resolves the Croatian Parliament, and one member is appointed by the Working Council of Croatian Radio Television. The Supervisory Board shall have broad powers with regard to the control of financial operations, so as to approve general acts on the financial operations of the HRT General Payments Act and other material rights of the HRT Workers, and compensation for external associates, approves the availability of HRT assets and gives prior consent to the conclusion of a loan or loan contract. The Supervisory Board shall also determine the level of the monthly fee, with the agreement of the Electronic Media Council. The program board of the HRT has 11 members, and is selected and resolved by the Croatian Parliament, on the basis of a public call issued by the Committee for Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament. Proposals for candidates can be made to the Committee by the institutions, citizens' associations, with the need to be respected intellectuals, renowned artists, experts, and other public workers who in public life have been highlighted by advocating respect for democratic principles and the rule of law, building and improving the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, the development of civil society, defence of human rights and freedom, promotion of culture, science and art, as well as the protection of freedom of the media and expression. Provisions on the prohibition and prevention of conflicts of interest are provided for for by the Programme Council and other bodies. The Programme Council shall monitor the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by law and the Treaty between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It also appoints editors-in-chiefs on the proposal of the administration and after the tender procedure and the opinions of editors and journalists and/or other staff who are creatively involved in the creation of a programme for which the editor-in-chief will be responsible. The Croatian Commissioner for HRT Services, which is one of the newspapers, appoints the HRT Programme Council for a term of four years, and he is in charge of considering complaints and suggestions from viewers, listeners and other Croatian service users. The Commissioner may be appointed as a person eligible for the selection of a member of the Programme Council. The Commissioner shall submit a report to the Programme Council twice a year to discuss this at the first next session. The law regulates the means to work and carry out surveillance. In order to carry out its activities HRT can use fees and commercial revenues, this means advertising. The law also regulates more permanent advertising on radio channels and general TV channels of HRT, while advertising on specialized television channels will not be allowed. In order to carry out the supervision of the use of public revenue, separate public revenue accounting is introduced and it is prescribed that HRT must carry out its commercial activity in accordance with market competition regulations, not lower the price of advertising when buying the right to transfer sport events, it must not offer the price, and it must not offer a price higher than the market price for the transfer of sporting events. External supervision of the implementation of this law and the provision of the contract between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall be entrusted to the Council for Electronic Media as an independent regulator, and a breach of the responsibility of the HRT in the event of breach of the legal provisions shall be provided. The transitional final provisions provide that HRT is to comply with the provisions of the law within one year of the date of entry into force of this law. The law also addresses the issue of digitisation by broadcasting general and specialized television channels at national level in earth’s digital broadcasting and within multiplexes. In order to facilitate the implementation of this law and the implementation of the reorganisation in the HRT, HRT is intended to provide a temporary contract to the Government of the Republic of Croatia immediately following the entry into force of this Act within 45 days, which will regulate all the programme obligations of the HRT and its financing during the transitional period until 1 January 2013, i.e. until the signing of the contract referred to in Article 13 of this Act. This will ensure the programming and financial stability of the HRT during the transitional period until the HRT fully adapts its work and business to the regulations of this law. HRT despite all the problems the institution has been going through is of exceptional importance for Croatian society, especially for Croatian culture. HRT is the one that provides the necessary space to promote and display Croatian audiovisual production, but also significantly participates in creating or at least financing the production of music, films, documentary programs and others. This new law will ensure the necessary stability and independence of HRT, but at the same time and much more precisely define the public function of HRT. Through the process of drawing up this contract, the public will be able to give their opinion on how HRT will fulfill its public function. We believe that exactly the process of making, signing and monitoring the execution of a contract involving the public will provide a new stopper in the programming development of HRT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64606	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Mr. Stazić, on behalf of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64607	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Minister with Associates. The Committee considered the final proposal of the law as a parent working body. And in the debate, all committee members supported this bill, and I must say they commend the Ministry of Culture and Minister Bishop for the process of passing this law. It should be an example of how to approach a change of law. From a wide public debate, workshops, round tables at the end of the parliamentary debate in two readings. It was also stressed that the co-operation of our Committee and the Ministry of Culture with regard to the adoption of this law was very high. Finally, it is also a pleasure that the committee has decided by consensus on the amendments that will be proposed to this high House for the final draft of the law. So let me just say a few words about these amendments. The law provides for HRT to determine the prices and other conditions of use of archive material. Archive material is not fully digitized, only 10% of these archives are digitized and it is impossible for HRT to now set the price for each individual unit of this archive material, these units have thousands. Therefore, the Committee proposes an amendment that HRT has no obligation to set prices but to establish a way of setting those prices, principle one. The law obliges HRT that 40% of the music broadcast in HRT programmes be domestic Croatian music. With this committee, however, the law has provided for such a commitment that 40% should be on each single radio and television channel. In this regard, the Committee proposes an amendment and hopes that the ministry will accept it. It would not be good to keep that obligation on every radio and television channel, primarily because of the third Croatian Radio programme, which broadcasts mostly serious music from music. The question is, do we even have 40% of domestic quality music to impose such a commitment? This may even lower the quality of the third radio program needlessly. Enough will protect our musicians if that obligation becomes on all channels, but not on every single channel. The following amendment sets out that the HRT Programme Council, not the Supervisory Board, should the term of office of the members of the Board be impossible to appoint. This is in line with the democratic sense, function and position of the programme council. I will not mention any technical amendments because they do not concern the public, it is about some of the deadlines that this Committee must comply with in relation to this Act, we propose extending those deadlines to a reasonable 30 days. We also more precisely define in one of the amendments the process of agreeing in the elections, i.e. the proposal of members of the Programme Council and members of the Supervisory Board, which will also fall within the activities of the Media Committee. Practice has shown that this is not precisely regulated in the current Law and the Committee feels it would be good to clarify the procedure a little. The law provides for the obligation of the HRT to establish, public disclosure of prices, advertising and other commercial services. The Committee considers that this should be thrown out of the law because if this obligation does not exist for commercial publishers, I see no reason why it should exist for public service. So we propose to get it out of the law. The important amendment is the one concerning broadcasting in multiplex A or multiplex B, so we suggest that this provision in the law be amended and that Croatian broadcasting broadcasts in multiplex A on its general and specialized channels. One of the major amendments, perhaps the most important of the Media Committee, concerns the election of members of the Supervisory Board. So we propose that one of the four members of the Supervisory Board who are elected here in the Assembly be elected on a parliamentary minority proposal. This would distance this Law from one intention that we feared at the beginning of the first reading, so that it could represent the etatization of HRT with this amendment if the Government accepts this fear and the law gets its own democratic process, and the conditions for this law to be voted either by the will or by the majority or by all clubs, representatives, including the SDP Club. Here is the committee proposing that the Parliament accept these amendments and the bill if these amendments are accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64608	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the board? Yes, colleague Bagaric. The Board of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64609	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia discussed the final proposal for a law on Croatian broadcasting as an interested working body. The proposer's representative met the Committee members with changes in relation to the first reading of the Law, and said that this Bill proposal brings a whole series of newspapers, especially in part of the HRT's supervision and business. The biggest newspaper is actually the negotiation of programming obligations arising from Articles 9, 10, 11 and 12 between Croatian Radio and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The contract to be concluded will cover programme commitments for a period of five years, with public debates on the content of the contract being conducted previously. The stability and financing of the guarantee of HRT's independence has been expressed by the proposing representative and therefore, dual financing and subscription and advertising have been proposed. The debate highlights the importance played by HRT as a public institution of national interest in the field of information and all the powers of social life of the production of different programmes, including those aimed at preserving Croatian cultural heritage, promoting the values of democracy and freedom and the overall progress of Croatian society and state. The Committee supports HRT as a media that is expected to perform public functions, including those relating to the interest, the special interest of this committee, which includes timely informing our people in the world, about everything that is happening in the Republic of Croatia. As well as getting to know the public in the Republic of Croatia about the lives, events and problems of Croatians in the world. Considering that Croats outside the Republic of Croatia live in different status forms and different living and social circumstances, sharing the fate of the environment, i.e. the country in which they are located, each of these groups should be approached by respecting their needs, expectations and specialities. In particular, the Committee calls for seriousness and responsibility in the process of concluding a contract between the Government and the Croatian Television which will define, the type of scope, the content of software services or obligations, of the interest of the Croatian public and Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. The Committee also welcomes the addition of the proposal for a law adopted on the proposal by the Committee, which obliges the HRT to produce and publish programmes aimed at informing members of the Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia, as well as programmes intended for the public in the Republic of Croatia concerning life, problems and events of Croats living outside Croatia. The members of the Committee stressed the importance played by HRT as an instrument of integration of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside Croatia, and pledged to elect among the members of the Programme Council a representative of Croatian associations promoting the interest of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. In the near future, Croats outside the Republic of Croatia are expected to be able to monitor the HRT programme in real time, given new technical opportunities. It is also proposed that Croatian television develop an international programme that is modelled by world-renowned television programmes in several languages to the international public to broadcast a picture of Croatia. Which is of the economic and general interest of the Republic of Croatia. Members of the Committee, several members of the Committee, supported the proposal to explicitly state in the Law that HRT commits itself to promoting national interests and patriotism. After the discussion of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, he decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Croatian Television with the following amendment: Amendment 1 in Article 25.8 above the words of the national minorities is deleted and the words are added, and associations that promote the interest of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Since the Government of the Republic of Croatia is its own amendment, so this is my clarification now, by its own amendment, which has been amended by this Committee, which has been amended by Article 25 in a way that no representatives of the special groups of Croatian societies will be elected among the members of the programme council, then in this case we will withdraw this amendment in front of the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64610	Thank you very much. Any other committees? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. The first club is the HSS club and a distinguished colleague, Marijana Petir. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64611	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives and deputies, Mr. Minister with his associates. Since the adoption of the Law on HRT in 2003 has changed circumstances not only in terms of technological development and way of determining the content of the public function of public television but also the internal organisation of public television in Europe, we need a new law. Thus, the adoption of this law of the work of the HRT is brought into line with the new Law on Electronic Media, as well as the Government's decision to publish State aid rules for public broadcasting services which are prescribed that the monthly fee is considered to be State aid which must be spent exclusively for the provision of public services, i.e. to realise the programme obligations of the HRT. In the past, politics in many ways has been setting up the HRT programme, but now it is not. Generally looking at media space now increasingly on the content of what we are going to or will not look at the impact of the interest of big money on what scientists are warning about in the media area. In fact, media content is increasingly serving to inform citizens, and increasingly profiting their owners, instead of a serious and quality programme that aims not only to inform but also to educate and sensitise citizens for some specific social topics, is offered a program that is designed to attract advertisers. HRT had and still plays an important role in Croatian society, because we know how much the media play in society in general. In particular, this refers to small screens that shape the preferences of citizens and change them, their view of the world, politics and the economy, the way they experience entertainment as well as society as the whole. HRT must therefore meet what is expected of it as a public service. HRT needs to inform the public in a timely, true and impartial manner, and certainly leaves enough space for information to be designed in a manner acceptable to citizens without having to capitulate itself with growing requirements for entertainment that cause it to lose focus. It is also required to ensure adequate representation of informational, artistic, cultural, educational, children's, entertainment, sports and other content. One word will produce and broadcast programmes that are important for this society, to preserve national culture even though they are not worth it as a show program in which individuals who are eager to celebrate and earn without cover will be able to express their privacy to the public. What kind of message is sent to young people does not need to be particularly exposed, but rather about this topic is said here in the assembly when we discussed some other laws and other reports. Unlike commercial TV and radio stations, which are crucial to the profit of which the programme adapts the work of citizens interested in advertisers and thus also finance HRT is intended for all Croatian citizens who pay it through the fee and who have the right to a quality program suitable for their values, where the entire Croatian society rests. When reading Article 9 of this proposal for a law defining the content of HRT public service functions, it is evident that it is a long list of areas required to be given special attention in the production of the programme. In most cases, it is about programmes that are difficult to be commercially profitable, whose production needs to be financed because among other things it is also about members of the Croatian people outside the Republic, national minorities, persons with disabilities, children with difficulties in developing or protecting the environment, preservation of cultural and natural heritage, values of Croatian villages and values that the Croatian man has lived for centuries and passed on to his descendants, which are primarily patriotism and godly. The quality program certainly requires more effort and work and more resources than the one made up of the emission complex by the principle of the movable, order one, and order the other, with the yellow-colored dressing, whose aim is to invest as little as possible in order to make as much money as possible. That's why television shows can be viewed between various shows and a show where fortune tellers and fortune tellers perform, which is not the case on HTV. If such a programme contributes to the development of culture, the education of citizens or their objective and timely information, judge for yourself. In order to achieve quality, it is necessary to create assumptions, which means that not only business but also the way HRT administration is chosen, as well as members of the Programme Council and Supervisory Board. It is clear and open to say that it has not always been without political interference. But we want to believe that through the process of democratisation, we have come to the idea that policy ceases to have editorial ambitions, in particular that it refers to an information programme, although it should be said, sometimes it is the impression that the media content of the public serves the worldview and values of the news or contribution authors, namely certain groups, especially when selecting a team for a topic, especially if there is no opinion on the other hand. This certainly does not respect the highest professional standards and ethical principles, as well as professionally recognise the standards of independent journalism, which according to the Croatian legal proposal is required to respect. We believe in the HSS that this legislative proposal will ensure a transparent selection of the administration of the programme board and the supervisory board, since it is high time to introduce order in the operation of HRT, but we know that since it is a large institution, it is certainly a matter of time, but also of money. Although HRT does not fully meet the public needs and what is expected of it and what is expected of those who pay the monthly fee, this does not mean that it should be punished by abolishing the revenues from marketing, but that we also need to introduce order and rationality in the HSS club. The HRT, as a public institution, should be independent of any political influence and pressure of commercial interest promoters. However, some believe that by reducing the duration of the promotional messages to 4 minutes an hour in time from 18 to 22 hours in a prime time when most citizens can sit in front of television, HRT becomes a prisoner of someone's business interests. Others, however, think it is good to open up a space for the inflow of active revenues on commercial television and that this is fair from the point of view of competition. We at the HSS Club believe that this article of law is related to the duration of promotional messages most optimistic at the moment because it also meets the needs of HRT, but leaves room for profit and commercial televisions fighting on the market. The people would say that this legal solution has made the wolf full and the goat full. In the first year of application of the law, it is foreseen that the time of promiscuous messages may last up to six minutes per hour, which shows that this time is actually intended for adjustment and that HRT is not left in the wind which could have been heard these days. It should also be mentioned that HRT collects 1.2 billion kuna annually and from the fee paid by citizens. It is true that from the funds collected through payment of the monthly fee, HRT is required to pay 3% to the Pluralism and diversity Fund of electronic media. From the part of the total annual gross income, which includes public and commercial incomes, HRT allocates funds for the benefit of the Croatian Audiovisual Centre. The law also determines how to determine the amount of the monthly fee, and determines the revenue obtained by the HRT. These revenues are shared on public revenues from the monthly tax and from the European Union funds and commercial revenues from carrying out commercial and other activities, where some of the funds, according to their origin, fall within commercial but are explicitly determined by their public character. The use of public revenues for commercial activities is prohibited, and if this occurs, the Council for Electronic Media will order their return to the provision of public services. The increased transparency of income spending and better supervision will certainly contribute to the management of separate accounting for revenues from marketing and revenue from subscription. We are positive about the fact that the adoption of this law, that is, how it provides for the signing of a contract with the Government which determines the programme obligations for five years, will clearly define what HRT as a public service is obliged to provide to its subscribers, and we believe that more order will be introduced into its business and ensure its independence, which will ultimately lead to greater satisfaction for the citizens of the HRT programme and will therefore support the adoption of the Croatian Peasant Party's Law on HRT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64612	Thank you very much. It is up to a distinguished colleague, Milorad Pupovac, and the SDSS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64613	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. 20 years ago, the imperative for those who had democratically understood the public interest was to view pluralism and pluralism as a major instrument for forming something called democratic, free, public interest. Based on the experience of the past 20 years, things have changed so much that we understand pluralism is not enough to protect public interest and public media space. Not only is it not enough, but in fact, an advocate of public interest as a criterion for the formation of media space should be stronger, stronger than it is in our media space. In this regard, the legislator, in this case the Government as a Proposer, the Ministry as a Proposer, enters into amendments to the Law on Croatian Television at one key point to question the further culture of public communication and the formation of media space in the Republic of Croatia. With what media space, media culture, general quality, we can't be satisfied? Not only can we not be satisfied with individual elements of the picture, let's say the state of the Croatian radio television, but generally when we talk about media space and the criteria that exist in that space. In this sense, we from the Club of the Independent Democratic Serb Party understand our work in this home by defending this public interest as much as possible and as strong as possible, and Croatian broadcasting as an instrument of this public interest as an additional instrument as a strong instrument and as a co-ordinator in pluralism which, as we know, is not always in the right sense of that word pluralism, but is actually pseudopularism. Because if there is no more ideology and one party to rule, it doesn't mean that there are no other power centers that actually control media space and as we know, the truth is that it is. It can be managed by media space based on specific interests, it can be managed by media space based on the trivialisation of media space, and I think that for us as a small nation, it is as a young democracy of extreme importance for us to preserve our media space from the further challenges that most young democracies are actually facing, and some of the oldest democracies in this regard are also facing. In that sense, it seems to me that some of the proposals that are highlighted here, first and foremost we from the SDSS Club agree that the negotiations that have been under way so far have actually been a significant achievement in the work not only between the ministry and the parliament but also between the parliamentary clubs here in the Assembly and would be of great importance if this practice continues in some other segments. And I have to admit, as far as I'm concerned, it's a shame that some of the elements were agreed two days ago in the meantime audited. I'll say something about what I think and what I mean exactly. First of all, as regards the relationship between the budget or the fees and the commercial assets collected by the Croatian Radio Television. I fully agree that it is necessary for these two accounts to be kept in particular and to differ. And the solution proposal is absolutely good and acceptable. On the other hand, I think that the issue of income based on the market and the market presence of Croatian radio television in the media space, especially in the advertising area, is something that should not be seen only from the aspect of the minute, so whether it is 6 minutes or 4 minutes than how far I have heard and how far I am directed and how much I am informed and from the aspect of the prices. Because it is not just a minute that can be a mechanism that will bring more correctness to the competition between Croatian broadcasters and other commercial televisions, so those who live exclusively from commercial incomes or almost exclusively even though we know that some of the funds received by Croatian broadcasters are based on the subscription. For example, through this pluralism fund media. Although these funds are not large but for a part of small media stations radio stations and television stations at local and regional level, these are significant funds. On the other hand, it seems to me that the issue of advertising prices is also an important tool that should be placed in the position of the competition. And that what is a problem with the relationship between commercial houses and public houses is precisely that sometimes a public house, I apologize to the public media in fact is breaking the price and creating dumped conditions of the advertising market which, with the right of private, commercial, media advertisers, consider something contrary to the law and contrary to the principles of competition. In this respect, I do not think it should be the main dilemma of six minutes or four minutes, but should be the main issue between, one of the main things is the issue of the price of the declared space. And as far as the minutes are concerned, my SDSS club is going to be able to regulate the issue of how prices will regulate the competition when it comes to advertising. We think it should be 6 minutes not only in the next year, but also in the next year, so not only in 2011 but also in 2012 so that we can see how and how Croatia's broadcasting will be restructured. Croatian broadcasting is preceded by a serious task of thorough restructuring in terms of the number of employees, in terms of how finance is managed, i.e. the way in which it operates and how it organises its production. Because I think it is of paramount importance that in the case of Croatian radiotelevision, what happened in the case of shipyards, which is that television is actually being folded as some shipyards crashed thanks to the policy of relations between the shipbuilding company and the cooperatives. But don't get me into the details now. So, what we think is that we should leave these six minutes but with the obligation to make the new leadership of Croatian broadcasters a thorough reconstruction and then after that, the legislator can see whether we should continue to go on a reduction of the time provided for advertising on Croatian television or whether these six minutes are enough to improve what is called public media interest. Another thing more important than this which the SDSS Club will advocate and about which it has submitted the amendment to the Assembly concerns the participation of journalists primarily editors and journalists and creative staff on Croatian Radio when it comes to the selection process of the editor-in-chief and editors on Croatian TV and Croatian radio. With this model that was created that we welcome when it comes to the board of directors, the board of directors, the Program Council. We here in the Parliament and the Government have in some way secured our influence as such. And we'll see how well he works, but some consensus about it we've achieved. And we at the SDSS Club welcome that consensus. But I think the law suffers from the fact that it is not possible for journalists to have their position less pronounced, especially in Article 21 of this proposal. In other words, this Law proposes to hear the opinion of editors, journalists and creative persons employed in Croatian broadcasting on the occasion of the election of editor-in-chief or editors on Croatian TV and Croatian Radio. But that opinion is advisory. And the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board don't have to stick to it. As we have had cases so far that journalists with 50 and some percent negatively rated some candidates or candidates but the Program Council has nevertheless elected those persons as editor-in-chief. I don't think we should allow that kind of practice anymore. We would have to give more space to journalists and editors in creating professional ethics and creating a professional profile of both theirs and the house they work in. If we leave it only to employers in this case to the Government and the Parliament, then in that case we take on ourselves the risk we have so far, and that is that we who are ultimately deciding who will be editors, and that means that in an important sense those words can affect what kind of editorial policy will be. It will return the matter here to the Parliament to a good extent, so I will say the matter of editorial policy on Croatian Radio and TV depends on what the relationship between the HDZ and the SDP is, not what is the real possibility of working the house, not what are the actual capacities of the house's professional, ethical or any other. And in order to change that, we from the SDSS Club think that we should strengthen the role of the press company, the editorial company and the general person working on TV in creative roles such as producers, such as directors, organizers or other people. And that is why we propose that, instead, only an opinion is sent to the programme council by journalists, we consider it necessary for that opinion to have a binding character. Well, in that case, the programming council might accept it, but it doesn't have to. So in any case, he can put it back, he can repeat the selection process, but he can't deafen himself to the position of the press company. I think it is of paramount importance to further improve the responsibility of the journalists themselves, to further improve the professionalism of the journalistic call and both professional ethics within the company. Someone will say, as some of my colleagues with whom, with great respect, I've had this debate over the past few days, that it would be just an administrative model for journalists to choose themselves, their own bosses, so those bosses wouldn't have enough credibility in their work. It's not that. It's the programming council he chooses. Recently, our neighbouring Slovenia had such a law on the 20th and 10th, i.e. to amend such a law in that sense, France has had it from earlier, Denmark has it from earlier, I see no reason why we would not actually give a little more trust in Mr. Minister, and therefore I will be free to share with you the arguments additionally, and other than those I referred to as a pay phone, to do so because it will certainly have an additional echo on status and journalistic professions, and the status of journalists and, of course, the greater independence of editorial policy. Less will depend on owners, less will depend on founders, and you will have to depend on what is natural, on those with whom they directly cooperate, and these are journalists and other editors with whom they work. That kind of control that's not only on one side, but on several sides, in my opinion, is better than if it's only on one side. In that sense, we are actually going back to the beginning of what I said, and that means we actually have pluralism of control that is better to safeguard the public interest than if this pluralism is limited only to property interest, or limited to founding interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64614	Thank you very much. I'm taking a break by 3:00. At 15 o'clock is the first row of the Croatian Democratic Community club, and a distinguished colleague of Suncana Glavak. My colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats and continue our work. Discussions are under way by clubs on the final proposal of the Law on Croatian Radio Television. It is up to the HDZ Club and the distinguished representative of Sunny Glavak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64616	... Croatian broadcasting will receive a new law that seeks to remove all shortcomings in the existing and regulate the functioning of public television. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] I will remind only that the draft new law began at the end of 2009, and during the long process of construction, a broad public debate was held, numerous stands, round tables were held and as many remarks and proposals as possible were made during the public debate. Also, part of the proposals tabled during the parliamentary debate was accepted between the two readings. The text of the law has also been shown positively by the European Commission services. In this procedure and everything that is here today, I congratulate you on the great work of the Ministry of Culture. But the way to the new law, to say the least, was a turbulence. And before the draft law was discussed on the working group, news has already been placed that the government is willing to take over television and turn it from public to state without the arguments for these claims, as the new bill proves. It was unnecessary politicization. Moreover, in the draft law, the facts of the poor or lack of the existing legislative framework, the crisis of control, the crisis of governance and everything we have heard countless times here in the Parliament were inevitable. Therefore, the law is necessary to ensure, among other things, responsible and stable public television management. The law will also ensure the conditions for HRT to perform its public function without at the same time distorting competition and ensuring transparency and financial stability. The status of HRT shall be regulated as a public institution carrying out the public broadcasting service activity and the Republic of Croatia shall ensure independent and independent financing in accordance with this law and rules on state aid. As for the internal structure as well as in most European countries, the Croatian Statute will be governed, which will allow for its reorganisation. HRT is obliged, in accordance with its public function, to inform the public impartially and in a timely manner about all events of public interest, to be impartial, professionally competent or essentially respect the essential principles of democracy. The biggest newspaper is one of the most important parts of the law defining the content and functions of public services, which will be defined by a contract to be concluded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Croatia, which means programme obligations that meet the democratic, social, cultural needs of Croatian society, strengthen pluralism, including cultural and linguistic diversity. The contract will determine the programme commitments of the HRT in the 5-year period as well as the financial framework of its operations and will apply from 1 January. The amount of public compensation to carry out the public service activity set out in the contract shall not exceed the net costs of carrying out that activity, and in addition, the HRT shall draw up a proposal for programme commitments, shall carry out a public hearing in order to demonstrate whether the proposed programme obligations are met by this law. We're including the public, that's what we wanted. The proposal for a contract of the HRT is required to deliver to the Government of the Republic of Croatia 6 months before the expiry of the contract. The relevant law defined the public function very broadly, and the result was also an independent interpretation of HRT on the performance of public function, and as we know and, as we have pointed out many times here, the public content was not enough. In addition, the Programme Council also had very broad powers without clear parameters for monitoring the success of HRT's work. As far as the contract is concerned, we find such examples in other European countries as well. I'll just mention the BBC charter, examples in Denmark or Ireland. The introduction of specialized television channels and two specialized TV channels is also foreseen, which will also be in the contract between the government and the HRT. I will remind myself once again that HRT is obliged to ensure that European works form the majority of its annual publication time, at least 40% of these works, HRT must be broadcast originally in Croatian on every general television channel. And about Croatian music we heard, 40% of the least used total music content. HRT is projected to have management, the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council. The management consists of 2 presidents, 2 members appointed by the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board of the HRT on the basis of a public tender. The HRT administration manages and manages and operates Croatian broadcasting and develops proposals for the work programme, the financial plan and sets out a proposal for a contract. As far as the Supervisory Board is concerned, it's made up of five members. Four members, based on a public tender for the proposal of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, shall appoint and resolve the Croatian Parliament and appoint a member of the Working Council. The Programme Council shall have 11 members, also elected and resolved by the Croatian Parliament on the basis of a public call from the Committee for Information, Information and Media, and the Programme Council shall monitor the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by law and contract between the HRT and the Government of the HRT. In order to carry out its activities, HRT may use fees and commercial revenues from audiovisual commercial communications by placing its products, sponsorships or advertising. The law also regulates the duration of advertising on radio channels and general television channels, but without advertising on specialized television channels. The same is defined as the exercise of supervision over the use of public income. Most commercial revenues are intended to be spent on the creation of public services, but public revenues are not to be used for commercial purposes. It is therefore also provided for the conduct of separate public revenue accounting and prescribed that HRT must carry out its commercial activity in accordance with market competition regulations. The supervision of the implementation of this Act on the contract between the Government and the HRT shall be entrusted to the Council for Electronic Media by saying that this provision also requires administrative strengthening of the Council for Electronic Media. Croatian broadcasting is required within one year of the entry into force of this Act to coordinate its work, business and general acts with the provisions of the Law. The law solves what we have heard here today, and the question of digitization. As soon as possible, the implementation of this Act and the reorganisation of the HRT is foreseen that, immediately from the entry into force of this Act, the Croatian Government must deliver a temporary contract to the Government of the Republic of Croatia which will regulate all programme obligations of the HRT and its financing during the transitional period until 1 January 2013, i.e. until the signing of the contract referred to in Article 13 of this Act. This will ensure the programming and financial stability of HRT. If it were possible to look at public interest, find consensus, it happened at a meeting of the Committee on Information, Information and Media where amendments were unanimously accepted, and the session had, many will say impossible but it is, a democratic atmosphere unlike any previous. And at the end of the day television is an unforgiving part of our daily life, it lives in our families, creates, changes, affects public change, and in such a rich environment television is constantly redefining its role. New ways of creating and spreading data are revealed, the world has become networked and television is part of that network. It will certainly continue to play a key role in the dissemination of information, in the increasingly dynamic world where we live. However, it will also retain the influence on the development of democracy. Not only the public television we're talking about today, but also commercial television with its software platform precious to foster pluralism. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of the HRT Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64617	Thank you, colleague. SDP advocates' club and distinguished counterpart Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64618	Thank you very much. I was expecting the position of the HDZ Club on this bill proposal and we heard only persuasion of the legal provisions as if we hadn't read them and we heard one conclusion that Croatian television is creating data, that's not news. That information should also transmit data, not create them, and if it creates them, then it would be really bad for public television and the public at all. The relation of SDP to public radio and public television is well known. Public television has not always existed, it was established in a long-standing communist era, founded as state television, we could say as party television in a one-party system. The democratic changes have not changed and the introduction of multilaterals has not changed such a position as unilateral television, it remained state-owned and it was party-run, it was perfectly normal for the ruling party's vice-president to also be the director of radio-television. So the relationship between the party and television was very prominent. 2001, then the 2003 Law. The SDP then decided to create public television. He received the HRT as an election prey in 2000 and the first director then Galic received his first term in a way that Prime Minister Racan proposed it to the parliament and was voted by the parliament as head of the HRT, so in one way that the leaders of some government organisations are elected. The SDP could have been used by this election prey, but it did not want to, but instead went through the creation of public television and, in that sense, passed two laws. This 2003 law, here we are today as we talk about this in force, and it needs to be innovative because of new technological progress, due to the introduction of digitisation, because of the possibility of opening new channels, needs to be modernised. In this modernization at the first reading of the Law, we made numerous remarks. There was a danger of going back to the concept of state television with this new law, so the draft law seemed to be in the first reading. UNFORTUNATELY, and probably with due recognition from the Ministry of Culture, Minister Biskopić, probably with his pawnship, the opinions we expressed not only as a party and as a policy, but as a professional and general public after the first reading were respected. They were respected for giving up such a concept of state television, so returning to the concept, decided to continue the way we also called on the government and the Ministry to advance public television and to continue where this previous law had left off. These remarks are appreciated by me here, perhaps a little unusual for me, to give public recognition to the Ministry of Culture, and to Minister Bishop and his team on this effort. I think he deserves praise, because public television is generally good. It cannot belong to either government, nor foreigners, governments are changing, parties are coming to power and public television cannot be an election prey, because it is not good for that television to change its leadership, its concepts, every time after the election. This abandonment of television is particularly visible in the election of members of the Programme Council, the concept that exists in the current law and which guarantees it, and then by accepting one of the amendments of the Media Committee, which is the way the Supervisory Board is elected. I wish at least one member of that committee were elected on a parliamentary minority proposal. With such a solution, no one will have 2/3 of the majority guaranteed in that joint body to be elected by the Director-General. And we know from the principal director further come the directors of branches, editors, general programming policy, the CEO wanted me to or did not play an important role in creating the position of television as public or as biased or prone to one of the options. Since this main observation of ours has been respected, conditions have been created for the law to be resolved when it is important in advance and in some areas in which it has shown some shortcomings but which are not so important. And if we'd respected all these other remarks and if this one hadn't been respected, the law would have been unacceptable to us. However, as it is appreciated that this major danger has been removed from the law is with amendments submitted by the Media Committee, but I see that some other clubs have also been submitted, so the SDSS Club insists on its amendment to the major participation of journalists in the selection of editors, which I think is a good thing that I also think should be respected, I call on the ministries to consider this amendment and to adopt it because I also resent it and myself that as chairman of the Media Committee, we did not implement it through our committee, because it is the place of origin where such objections should be discussed and argued and then proposed to this House. The most important newspaper in this law is the contract. A contract is introduced which separates it publicly from the commercial one. What's public television? Public television is the one that produces a public programme, which is funded by the public and which is controlled by the public. Without one of those three functions, we can't talk about public television. Public television will now be transparently funded by the public, as the contract will resolve the public content that television must produce and which will be financed by public money, tax money. It's a parafiscal imposition, that tax solution is good, it's got other democratic countries, it's a good way to finance a public service. Public money will be allocated from commercial money, from money collected by marketing. And the contents will be separated and it will be quite clear that public money can only be financed by public content that represents some kind of public need. It'll have to be run in double accounting. When it comes to minutes of marketing, we don't consider it the most important issues or consider it in this whole series of issues that I've talked about the least important. And somehow, he and numerous public debates focused most on him. This is due to the pressure of stakeholders who are perfectly normal who is quite logical, who is expected because there are different interests in society and of course everyone wants to satisfy their interest. It would be unnatural if it weren't. How do we approach this problem? We're accessing it in principle. What is the general public interest of all Croatian citizens? Their public interest is that public television exists but there is an alternative to public television, that there are several sources from which citizens can be informed, that there are different editorial concepts on these media and that citizens have the right to choose what they will look at and who they will trust. Without that, this general public interest could not be satisfied. Therefore, the preservation of commercial television on the market is part of the public interest of citizens. the second objective that must be achieved in order to achieve this general objective is a stable business of Croatian public television. It will no longer be a public service if it comes into financial dependence, and it will no longer be independent. Any such television if it comes to the government's dependence if it has to knock on the government's door, and the founder of the HRT is the Republic of Croatia, therefore it is an institution, hence the founder is in full responsibility for the losses. If the government had fallen into losses, it would have to make up for the loss from the budget or send that TV to bankruptcy. That TV that would knock on the government door looking for money wouldn't be independent anymore. Therefore, financial independence and the stability of HRT is a condition for its independence. It's not just our desire for HRT to be financially independent and stable, it's a necessary condition for public television. The third principle we have to take care of, it's a fair game of competition. And we think that in that fair market game, all the entities that appear on the market must operate in the same way, if possible under the same conditions, and exercise the right to earn money. No one should be favored. In view of all of this, we believe that the proposal put forward by the Government or the solution contained in the final draft law is such that the SDP club will not oppose it. The SDP club will not stand up to it for one reason, an important reason, which is what the solution envisions for a year, and we could call it probation. 9 minutes in all times except when in the first year it decreases in 6 minutes and later to 4 minutes. It's important to us these six minutes or a year. It's a year to see how this thing works. Within that year, a contract should be signed, a contract should be concluded, radio broadcasting obligations should be seen, it should be seen how it fulfils, whether it can fulfil its public function and whether it can be held on the market under those conditions. So far, that would be a prejudge too soon to say that some other solution would be better, because we don't have input data. That time will not pass in vain. The SDP will closely monitor the activities of Croatian broadcasting and commercial television activities. Let's see how many of those pieces of marketing cakes they're now going to grab a little bit more, how much they're going to use to fulfill those public functions they've accepted the obligation to make concession contracts. How much of the extra money they now receive will help them to keep on the market, but also to fulfil at least part of their public functions according to their concession contracts. They still meet them today, if nothing else, with an information program. We will also closely monitor the activities of HRT and the activities of commercial television. One year is enough time to review the situation again after that year and see if any changes should then be made in this law and in which direction it should work. Since the most important remarks on the bill are respected, which is why I once again commend the ministry, because I think we can be satisfied with the text of the law, no law is perfect and cannot be perfect, it is not necessary to pursue this ideal, but the main obstacles have been removed, the SDP club will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64619	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to the quote. Dear colleague Susana Bilić Vardić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64620	Thank you very much. Comrade Stazic, you said in your debate that it is unusual for you to praise the ministry. It's not exactly a colleague, it's the other way around. Respecting the role of the ministry headed by Minister Bishop and his co-workers, this law has been sent to the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia headed by Mrs Jadranka Kosor, but the colleague Stazic cannot pronounce it, and the truth is that we do not expect it either. Another incorrect allegation is that this proposal, therefore the final proposal of the law, has removed the attempt, I quote: PTT-ization of HRT, thanks to the comments of the SDP, so it cites an example of the composition and selection of the Programme Council. My fellow Tracker, that's not true at all. When you talk about the composition and selection of the Programme Council the law in the first reading in those articles had alternatives and if you remember the debate, MPs from the parliamentary majority and clubs stayed mostly for alternatives, so to stay as it was settled in the current law and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is just what we have brought here to appreciate in the final proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64621	Thank you. The second correction of the quote. Dear colleague of the Sun Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64622	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There were several incorrect allegations I'd like to correct. So the information is created by a colleague of the Stazic, and the facts are transmitted. The CEO doesn't create a program unless you're pretending to play a new role and you want to change something else. There's been a threat of public television collapse, you said that, I think that's incorrect. The only danger has arisen is that unless a new law is passed that there is still chaos and financial intransparency that we have had there with a law that has been in force so far. And you said something else, our remarks were respected. My fellow Stazic, it wasn't just your remarks it was a broad public debate. These were also comments from the parliamentary majority representatives, these were comments from different groups of companies that participated in the public debate. Don't give yourself credit for what happened. And as for that, we haven't heard anything new about your attitude, you've convinced the contract, that's a big newspaper, but it seems to me that you've said almost the same thing that I've just been much, much stricter, but I guess that fits your temperament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64623	Thank you. Next up is the Club of HNS-HSU Representatives, a respected fellow representative of Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64624	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. Here comes a very important day when we are discussing the final version of the Law on Croatian Television and many of which many expect. The entire public is a witness to agony in which Croatian broadcasting as a system not only of business but of the creative one I would say over the past year, a year and a half with a constant deterioration of the situation where the public is actually asked whether this new law which is before us can correct everything that is in public debates through the Croatian Journalist Society, NGOs, the working bodies of the Parliament, various conversants have indicated as the key problems of the source of these problems in the Croatian Radiotelevision system. If today we argue that the new law will solve all the problems of Croatian broadcasting, I don't think we would be telling the truth because they are always the key to every problem of people. Practice has shown that we are champions in contempt of the law, that we are champions in avoiding the implementation of legal norms no matter how beautiful, useful, well written and with best intentions suggested. Any law could unfortunately be misused, so it was possible that the 2003 law, which was a major step forward in the previous practice, eventually went out in practice to some of the situations we claimed were the consequence of political pressures and different interests. Croatian broadcasters found themselves in one rift, I would say a scribble, between the one part of the interest of commercial competition that cares about to be distracted, tears, suppressed some of the capacities of Croatian radiotelevision, which, by nature, already has a certain advantageous position and the very fact that it is a television that was not created yesterday, which has a long tradition and on the other hand, an attempt to introduce a political patronate that is not only imaginative to one party. All political furniture in one way or another tried to control this system fully aware that whoever controls information is controlled by society, but it should come out of that pre-political era and should look the interests of the nation in the eyes, and should be at the level of the task so that what may be in the nature of every political party, come out of this framework and work for the benefit of the people. The new law as my predecessors have said brings a whole series of newspapers, I will not repeat them, but I will mention those I hold particularly important. The complete novelty is a transparent definition of the relationship between Croatian radio and government, through a contract that will, on a whole new basis, also technologically, determine in a new way what the gauges and contents of public interest are, how much it costs, and how it will be co-financed from parafiscal income. It is something we have not had so far and some warn that there may also be a space for political manipulation if the party or coalition holding the government is not aware of its wider social responsibility but rather if it is closely foreign. Let us not forget about the document that should be passed every year, which should be re-signed and where there is always a technical and theoretical possibility of pressuring, but let us not prejudge an institute that has not been revived. May God show that on the one hand, management of Croatian broadcasting with all those who create the programme will be mature and smart enough to propose an excellent programme and real prices at which it will be produced, on the other hand, to be a national government, not a party government. If that happens, then the contract should become a form that will allow the public to see everything that happens in that system and should not cross the development of Croatian broadcasting but, above all, the production of the programme, because it is the essence of Croatian broadcasting. Furthermore, the opening of two specialized channels will allow Croatia's broadcasting as a public service to cover the provision of public services in the field of information and all that so far are different groups of Croatians living abroad, NGOs, people dealing with culture, those dealing with the protection and promotion of human rights, citizens, especially children, birth rights, all these observations will probably be able to alleviate the opening of new specialized channels, i.e. by spreading minutes of broadcasting of the entire programme, because so far objectively, many of what we consider socially justified, objectively needed could not find any place in the programming scheme because it is limited to 24 hours in two programmes. Furthermore, what is new is certainly one limit for the broadcast of Croatian music. I hope this limit will help Croatian music production develop, but on the other hand there will be a dam that will not allow every weed and every swivel, which there is in Croatia music, to enter on Croatia. Furthermore, the service user commissioner, one mini ombucman, will worry about how the public interest is fulfilled, on the other hand, how the comments of end-users are applied to the creation of the programme. We believe that the Law is better than the former but that in its original form it is not good enough, and it is more than important that all benevolent people have engaged to improve it through amendments and it is good and it is great that the Ministry of Culture is in this sense as a key link. Of course, in a broader sense, it is the Government, but in a narrow sense, you know who did this job, you know who was on the line with the European Commission, so in a narrow sense, the Ministry of Culture has shown a high level of maturity and flexibility. On the other hand, if it hadn't been for the information committee's intervention, many very important amendments would not have been seen here today, and they would have removed the political traps that included the initial bill. Let's not forget the amendments of the others who handed them over. There are several amendments, there are amendments to some Committees, from the Committee on Human Rights, from national minorities and beyond. Croatian broadcasting is one of the strongest brands Croatia has at all, it is one of the best quality media through which we can express not only our identity, but also our own interest. Croatian broadcasting is the only medium that can be reached from other countries throughout the South Slavic speech area, very simple and still with a high dose of respect. If that is the case, if what Croatia is doing is valued from Slovakia to Greece, then it is a chance that we must not waste. Then it's a tool that we have to build our regional influence, our regional positions, we still have a lot to be leaders of in our region and we don't need to be ashamed of these opportunities that we're given. It is a family silver that must not be rejected and it is also in the United Europe and beyond, a medium through which we communicate with everyone who speaks with our language and, on the other hand, with all the media through which we communicate with everyone who speaks our language, and on the other hand, with everyone who is considered Croats in ethnic terms, which is not... Even as much as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is why it is the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament to make the law better, to accept the proposed amendment but also to go into operation immediately after its entry into force in order to enable the management structures on the Croatian radio and the Supervisory Board and the future board and the Programme Council to function in the new mandate. But also so that finally the people who know, will, can, and who have shown it so far could continue to work unhindered. But also to narrow down the space of this political pressure on the one hand, and on the other hand the unusual behaviour of part of the administration, the executive of the office of the administration that results in cases of censorship. We are not and cannot be happy whenever censorship happens in our country, and especially where the Croatian Parliament is the founder and where it has its direct rights, obligations, above all the moral obligations to preserve that space. If we allow censorship on Croatian television, it is a place where we will not be proud in the future, and many people, including those 398 who have lost their jobs and do not fall into the unemployed, do not belong to those who have been sedated, who remained on the side when the most important software content of HTV was to be done. So they expect something from this law. They expect order to be introduced and those who do not work will leave the television and those who know how to work and who want to work. The Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party will support this Act, of course, provided that the applicant accepts amendments to the Information Committee and that he carefully examines all other amendments on the table, including the amendment that allows Croatian broadcasters to have six minutes of time, because we do not forget it was cut up until recently there were 12. If we want to pull a wooden boot or a steel noose to the end then let's play with it. But if we're aware of what we have in our hand and what's great value we're not going to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64625	Thank you very much. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate, colleague Lesar. He's gone? Then he loses his right to argue. Next, a colleague named Boris Kunst checked in. Here's your colleague, Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64626	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Minister, fellow MPs. So the proposal for a new Law on Croatian Television is based on standards of media freedom and political independence. The law is a good basis for the necessary changes on Croatian television in order to bring all these structures of society in the Republic of Croatia again after many crises in business and in human relations in Croatia. The fact is that Croatian broadcasting has a privileged position in our media space, but therefore it must have a greater responsibility to justify the function of public television, public goods that will highlight our national values, language, culture that are identified by Croatian peoples. Today, Croatia's broadcasting is too big and too trom, but it earns a lot of money. In 2009 alone, 210 million kuna came in from advertising, and since the television subscription, it has been revenueing annually over one billion kuna, so we certainly have to ask ourselves seriously how this great money and spending on Croatian radio. Today, citizens are rightly dissatisfied with the Croatian TV programme, paying many more prices than the value of the product. Croatia's television is unfortunately one of the largest importers of foreign ideas and foreign goods today, completely uninvented by which the last range is to resell minutes to soap producers who are increasingly on TV and especially on Croatian TV. Croatian television, radio television should not be the subject of frequent affairs and this is about suspicious fees for fictitious members, which we had examples of hearing sometime in 2008, 2009. Payment of over-numbered advisers and assistants who are certainly too expensive for financially fragile radiotelevision, mutual quarrels, bribery and can normally get an impression in the public of the bad interpersonal relations that rule on Croatian radiotelevision. On Croatian television, they must not act as drunk billionaires, so that money is a privilege of a privileged position, not a result of the quality of work or the quality of the program on Croatian television. Such a policy of Croatian Radio Television leads to financial self-destruction. Inadmissible is the decline in the viewership of Croatian television somewhere from the circus 30%, as well as the decline in ratings and the quality of the Diaries in which better commercial TV according to research of the Faculty of Political Sciences for 2008, 2009 and often today you can hear more one-sided comments in the Croatian Television Diaries than in real news. Therefore, after the adoption of this proposed Law on Croatian Radio Television, Croatian broadcasting should be urgently reformed and able to produce new intellectual goods, and interesting emissions, i.e. A better program. But I must also point out that I do not approve of the way many part-time workers are, so part-time co-workers in Croatian broadcasting these days have lost their jobs. Just overnight. Among them are those who work part-time for more than 15 years on Croatian radio and have extremely professional and high-quality and experienced professionals, and that when they were left without existence, neither work nor social criteria were taken into account. And that's why I really ask and I think it's a good thing someone said that even when this law is passed to see that those high-quality people come back, those who are experienced, who have knowledge if they were able to work part-time with television for so long they were good at this Croatian broadcaster, that such people go back and allow them to continue to provide their existence in that house, and normally help that house. Because you know these people aren't things, they're not the things you use when you need them, and then when you don't throw them away. Therefore, I believe that this new Law on Croatian Radio Television will make major shifts in the consolidation of business, rationalisation of spending, diversity of programmes and pluralism, that future funding will be financed without borrowing and paying the excessive interest paid today by Croatian broadcasters when they lend certain funds. Personally, I think this law came at the right time, and that's why I support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64627	Thank you very much. Next, he applied for the word and I give him my word, dear colleague Ivan Bagarić. Here's my colleague, Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64628	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since it is a law that directly regulates the issue of the work of the most important media house in Croatia, and as a representative in this House, but also as chairman of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, I would like to draw attention to this debate with the aim of supporting, in particular, the support given to both the Government and the Ministry responsible for the adoption of this law, which will be regulated on a more high-quality basis, we hope that the work of Croatian Broadcasting will be done. For what reason do I single out, which is why I stress the question in this case of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, and in the context of Croatian broadcasting? It is known that Croatians live in different statuses in the world, except for the Croatian national minority in European countries, and as a Croatian diaspora, i.e. Croatian emigrants and their children worldwide, as well as Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a special nation, and that Croatia's broadcasting is actually the best connection between all these groups, and Croatia as a state. So, given that almost half of the inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia live in one way or another outside the Republic of Croatia, then and in the global time in which we live, and in the time in which we enter, we hope the next day in the European Union, which will provide many other multiple possibilities of cooperation from political, economic, cultural and each other, these two segments, hence the Croatian states, and Croats outside Croatia, then we hold that Croatian broadcasting can play, that it should play and that it will play an even more important role in the integration and transfer of all the necessary information, i.e. information and Croatians in the world about the Republic of Croatia, but also the public in the Republic of Croatia about Croatians in the world. This information is a prerequisite for any other cooperation and my support to this law in this context. And my thanks here to the present minister, his associates who have accepted that in one of the provisions concerning the programme will stand that Croatian broadcasting will produce and broadcast programmes and content for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and that Croatian public will inform Croatians worldwide. This is what all other TVs do, let the Croatian Radio Television do as well. Now a few words let me, they are personal, and I do not want to have any effect on my speech or to create an opinion about my vision of Croatian broadcasting, but I want to express my position and share it with you. Croatian broadcasting will either be quality or will not be. So this law allowed her, opened up the possibility, gave her the opportunity to be truly independent, to be funded, and to be quality. Communism has failed saying not only because of the failure of freedom, but also because of not taking care of what people need, so the economy has come where it is, although we now see this in this global wild capitalism worldly that it is not God-knowing answer either, so it creates such crises as it does in the world, but the fall of communism is interpreted by the lack of freedom, and production, by giving those products that people did not want and because of the fall of the economy. Also, our Croatian Radio Television except for what it does and what it produces, and with what it certainly contributes to all the good of Croatia and all its citizens, surely that products and materials that are not good, and which must be better, which must be different, which must simply be what counterpart Kunst said must be what they expect, what people want, what people want and what their audience wants in the end, it pays them and it has the right to say and choose. HTV therefore needs to promote love for everything beautiful, towards freedom, towards country, for love of country and patriotism, because these are simply values no matter what anyone has said that are actually impervious, such as health, such as purity, such as source, water, and there is no substitute and will never be for those values. I have to say that the central show of Croatian Radio Television, although I am not an expert on it, but I am a consumer, the one watching Croatian Radio Television, so the central show "Dnevnik" is the most watched TV show in which when an event does not appear as if it did not happen, and in which it is so often shown what would be better if it had not been shown. So I'm not saying that people need to be deceived, but people don't need to be manipulated, or killed in people, and they don't want to make progress, for and spread good vibrations. Simply after watching the Croatian Diaries very often and on HRT very often a man really loses his morale to continue to watch the programme at all, but also to live. Therefore, I do not think that we should manipulate, but that we should be open, honest and in a certain way encourage all that is good and what is nice, very often in the journal that should be the number of news there is not much, much is missing and just that time is used to spread some contents, some kind of reporting that is all the other news. Contrary to the shortcomings that I have just hinted about here and I don't want to talk about for a long time because it would take a while, and contrary to the fact that, unfortunately, on HRT, some people have priorities and performances and times and therefore editorial policy is such that several people create stars and these stars are so often in the media space that their attitudes actually become almost the attitudes to be valued and to which other people's behavior is assessed. On the basis of such attitudes and such people, others are often judged. Not only are they judged, but they are blasphemed in the name of the public and condemned. TV is honest, it's my belief, it's the mirror of the nation. So, national, public television is a mirror of a nation to be published, I repeat not to deceive, not to manipulate, raise morale, as far as I'm concerned, and I'll always try to be critical, but I'll do it against all commercial televisions, even though they're welcome, absolutely favoring it. Therefore, HRT is also an important instrument in the hands of those who work on HRT, but both the public and on this side should be aware of both responsibilities. Finally, I am convinced that the HRT in the time ahead should also go into the production of an international programme that will actually transmit a picture of Croatia to the world, which will be placed in different languages and which will be seen freely in the world, therefore free of charge and throughout the day. It is a way to create a picture of Croatia, on all grounds. This is no longer just a question I do not know of Croats outside Croatia but it is a question of both Croatian tourism and Croatian economy and, in general, of Croatian interest. I conclude my debate by supporting this law, by supporting all those people on HRT who are consciously doing their job and thus giving a picture of Croatia the way it is, and it is beautiful, it can be even more beautiful. The big role and great responsibility are in that case and on HRT. So be it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64629	Thank you very much, colleague Bagaric. We have an application for a replica, a distinguished colleague of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64630	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now I've been through like the other day Sanader, the ones before me pulling the charges and losing the right debate, and I need to use the replica. You told your colleague Bagariæ, and I disagree with you, that HRT and its program have mirrored the nation. That is why I want to believe that you will support one of my amendments to, for example, Article 8 which prescribes the obligation that Croatian television, broadcasting is used in Croatian language and Latin letter and does so in all programmes except propaganda programs because there is 70% of foreign language and foreign letters in propaganda programs. So that safeguarding this Croatian and the heritage of Croatian and Latin letters would be good for us to also prescribe in Article 8. for the propaganda programme. Namely, there is not only that the name of the manufacturer and the product may be in Chinese, but also the instructions for use are given in foreign languages, and the characteristics of the product. So when you look at a propaganda program you have to follow it with a dictionary of foreign words to understand it. But something that made me more confused was the debate on behalf of the representatives' clubs. My colleague Pupovac said it directly, my colleague Stazic on behalf of the SDP something a little more twisted. I heard it was in this law until yesterday that there were some negotiations, conversations, consensuals. Since I did not participate in these agreements and negotiations, I expected everyone to speak openly about what they had negotiated, what they had broken down to support this law. Was the subject of trade also a question of the independent status of editor of the Croatian Information Programme? The independent status and freedom of journalists in the Croatian Information Programme or is it the subject of all of these competitions just a matter of how many of yours and how many of their members of the Programme Council? It would be easier to discuss the amendments offered and the bill itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64631	Thank you, colleague Lesar. Replication response, colleague Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64632	Thank you. I told my colleague Lesar that HRT should be a mirror of a nation that will publish news and information, will not be deceived, which will not manipulate, but will raise morale and give people wings. And I said I'd keep criticizing her, but in order to be better, to be, to improve her program. But also, I'm going to keep favouring her over commercial television. Because we can't affect the work of commercial television, and we need HRT. Because we, among other things, are the public who is responsible for HRT in our own way, and as MPs in the Assembly, we will pass this law, I believe a good law that will allow HRT to be better in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64633	Thank you very much. It's time for the esteemed colleague, Antun Vujic. Here you go, colleague Vujic, you can do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64634	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is not often for a person to be comfortable when discussing public television, and it is at the same time in a mostly favourable environment. Because obviously this environment has progressed and obviously we have a law ahead of us, and then we have a joint committee work that has drawn closer to what would be desirable and what we hope, not only personally but also as a club to support. So maybe it's time to explain what happened? Both my colleague Stazic and my colleague Pupovac, including Minister Biskupić, have been using the opportunity to commend the way this Law was debated, have been returning to the history of events, and then also to the context of the different laws that were brought here in their own time. Namely, we had a process that was about to go like this, first it was supposed to privatize the press media and it was done. This was done in the name of freedom of the media so that media like now would finally be free and no one disputed that it was achieved. Meanwhile, the notion of freedom of the media began to relate to the notion of ownership of the media. So now we have different reports where many journalists complain, including only the Society of Journalists, that the issue of freedom of the media has won a new round and that it is taking place in matters of freedom of journalists and journalistic professions in relation to their owners, so it is concluded that there is no freedom of the media but the freedom of the owner and the freedom of advertisers. And this whole debate of ours, and maybe that's the root of what we are now able to pass the law quite in line with common opinions, is taking place in the shadow of a media account which is also a political account and which is the calculation of different types of owners with one media that is not owned by anyone, because there is the owner of Croatia, represented by this Law even more Parliament than it was in the beginning. It's the real nature of the conflict. It is not a conflict between the HDZ and the SDP in this area because every reasonable in any party, forgives what I just mentioned, that we have media as neutral technology that can compete with each other and that I can then judge people who are better. However, we have media that are part of the chain of political relations, which are part of the chain that these relations are ownership relations, interest relations, oligarchical relations, we have today tycoon media, and one medium that has not yet been able to do so. And that's why criticism, this media, comes primarily from that side, which is why we are here dealing with the issue of reducing certain achievements that public television has had and which are actually getting smaller and smaller. They are reduced unfortunately in some things and in this Law even though the Corps is kept. I wish there wasn't that reduction, however, there is. This reduction is not just about advertising, this reduction is also about some other issues, in terms of software bases, not being able to combine software, programs for different things from one corpus of funds, etc. One part of it is also under pressure from what is today a liberal model in Europe and where we, as provinceal victims of that model, adopt things before we have to and I don't think we're fighting enough for this. However, what has been achieved has been achieved in this Law and when I say I am taking into account this assumption that the amendments of this Committee will be accepted, the basic Corps is included, which is the independence of television and its protection. The minute question is about the following. First of all, I have to deny something that my colleague Pupovac said, maybe accidentally, or maybe I didn't get it right, so I apologize to him if I'm going to say something wrong. There were no monopolys and no dumping prices on television, these were established by the agencies that were involved and who were independent and who would be very interested, so... some dumping, it wasn't. However, advertising the tariffs of advertising space can only be so that everyone does so, if it will do so in private television, then it can also be public, if it will not be private why would it do so in public. Reductions occur on some other elements. The previous law had, however, to be understood from that share that should be originally found in Croatian, it had 55%, now it is 40%. It is bad for us to see the restructuring of television in reducing the volume of the part of the program in Croatian. I understand that this is somehow under the pressure of appropriate circles but I'm not sure whether that's exactly the kind of thing that needs to be taught or to insist on what's called identity rights, where public television is the only media like this that publishes the content because others are not present at all, on commercial televisions there's no such content at all, that we have such a reduction from 55% to 40%. I would invite the Ministry regardless of what I basically support throughout this Law to review such one thing and see if it is necessary to drop the share of production in Croatian is otherwise an article of the 10th of this Law. There is also another place that weakens the position of public television in relation to other televisions, which is when it is done, mentioned by Minister Biskupic, which is that on specialized programmes, advertising will not be published. I don't understand why. Because the Law on Electronic Media, I think it's an article, we'll find it easy, if we look for it, the Law on Electronic Media provides for the possibility of three minutes of advertising on specialized programmes that are non-commercial. So if HRT had a non-commercial nature program, I don't see a single reason why he couldn't have three minutes of the program. I'm going to assume that maybe one day they're going to decide on a cultural program, but can't a book be advertised on that cultural program in three minutes. I don't think this is necessary to say this, I haven't prepared the amendment, but I'll say it verbally, I think it should be that point where they're said to have no right, to say that they have the right as much as they have the right under the Law on Electronic Media non-commercial programs if these programs are non-commercial, otherwise completely unnecessary... domestic scales that are already lagged in some places. So let's say that might be considered. The minute issue that caused the biggest problems isn't as important as what matters as an indicator of who to say what it represents. Well, there's a lot of people out there who stood up for it, so I think those who've been looking for minutes like this don't know one thing or didn't take one thing into account. 4 minutes in a very watched program is much more than 6 minutes in a little program, because that's how advertising is calculated. Therefore, Mr. Bagaric is perfectly right when he says, and I would not agree with everything he said, but with this sentence I am very well sat down and I completely agree, which is that this television must either be good or it will not be. I totally agree with that. Since time is up, I will end up with one feeling of relative optimism. The Ministry did a great job in a very difficult job. I know how difficult it is to come to this and I know that it is particularly difficult to reach a certain consensus that I hope will be achieved by assuming the adoption of these amendments that have passed as amendment committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64635	Thank you, colleague Vujic. We have a report of a replica. A colleague of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64636	You highlighted in your debate the importance of public television or public services that it must provide to the citizens of this country. It is defined in Article 9. And I think what it is in Article 9 is good. For example, it lists the obligation of public television to have special programmes on members of national minorities, persons with disabilities and children in developmental difficulties, equality of men and women, promotion of entrepreneurship, sports and recreational activities, and that's all good. But I would like to believe that for the development of meeting the democratic, social, cultural needs of Croatian society, and this is a quote set out in point 1 of Article 9, Mr Minister, as well as public television programmes that go in favour of consumer rights. In the global market and in the market, the issue of consumer positions and emissions that HTV has so far on this topic is extremely valuable and important. But also other than consumers, I believe that HTV as a public service, public service should also have specialized programmes for the education and protection of patients' rights, because Croatia also has private health services, not only public and public services, and that protection of these categories of population, which is the most numerous, because consumers and patients are 4.5 million people, should be the subject of Article 9 as a component of that public service service which is guaranteed to citizens through television. We can't expect this from commercial television. The commercial TV that lives on capital money will not have a consumer protection show. And those who offer health services on the market will not, of course, provide a patient protection programme because they are funded by them, according to the content of the propaganda programme, it is very well seen. And it is therefore my third amendment in that it becomes an integral part of Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64637	Thank you. Reply to the replica of my colleague Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64638	Mr. Chairman, it's absolutely not my fault that Mr. Lesar was late so he couldn't discuss it on behalf of the club. I'm really not a colleague of Lesar's fault, and please, if you're giving me a line, then refer it to me and not to the minister. So this is what we think was an injury to the Businessman but I don't insist that it be shaped as some kind of punishment or measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64639	One part of the debate was so concise that this part could really be tied to that commercial, non-commercial, if nothing else in the last sentence... We're moving on with the debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear colleague and vice president Željka Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64640	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I think this law that is now under discussion and which will soon be passed is actually a very important law. We in the House spend a lot of time discussing the various things that each in their own way have importance for the normal functioning of life, economy and society, but this law represents one of the very important laws that seem to be regulated by only one large and important institution, but essentially regulates many flows, social flows, and even the development and future of our society, whether it goes one democratic way, whether it will preserve and preserve some values or sacrifice everything in the name of profit, capital and forget that there are some traditions, that there is something that has been built on this space for centuries or decades and that it is worth not only remembering, but also preserving and preserving. These words may sound a little pretentious to you all, but you know that the media in general has a strong influence on the creation of what's called public opinion. And public opinion has a very big impact on many important decisions taken at the level of government and public opinion created on quality and good information, on quality and good information or providing all possible broad information, it will be encouraging for all those who decide on the future of Croatia to make these decisions in the real right direction in the real long-term interest of the citizens of this country. We have just heard in a debate that such a media that advocates this law and which we advocate most of the time in the assembly of this Assembly may have a much wider impact, not only on public opinion in Croatia but on public opinion in the region, thanks to some historical relations, the similarities of language. Croatian broadcasting if it preserves its quality can expand and deepen the interests, positive interests of the Republic of Croatia and in the area of the entire region. We have been through a history that has also been said a lot today, through the history of the development of HRT as today's public service passed many stages and gained many experiences. In addition to the various pressures within the country on all the laws that have been made so far and the laws that have been passed, Croatia has been exposed in this respect to a number of advices, advisers, and even I would say the pressures from the developed democratic environment of Europe, most recently from the European Union. The legislator of this law is generally known as one of my views which was otherwise positive for the whole process of proposing this law and even this final text of the law, not in the whole but in the most part, but it is known that in this process, too, we have been overly mindful of the advice that came from the European Union, i.e. by embezzling some standards that have not yet been tried in the old Member States of the European Union. I don't think that Croatia needs this, and I think that if the legislator of the law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, accepts these amendments that have been agreed at the Assembly level, at the level of the Information Committee, that we will also remove that remark that I have made several times loudly. Allow me, too, to contribute to support or to the government as a proposal to accept harmonised amendments, to say a few words about how I am experiencing public service, public radio and television, and I have already said something about why it is important. But often it seems to me that there is no clear idea in the public what it really means to be a public service and what it will have to do with Croatian broadcasting after it has concluded under this law a contract to fulfill certain public functions that are causing it to collect the subscription, it has the right to subscribe. A short time ago, counterpart Vujic said that Croatian Radio Television as a public media service should either be good or should not be. I'd like to add this "be good" a little bit more or expand, so I'd say that such a public service makes sense not only if it exists but if it's also seen and accepted by our viewers. And to be seen and accepted by our viewers then this program must be adapted to the average citizen of Croatia, the average viewer who likes to watch the show about the natural beauty of Croatia, who likes to watch a historical show about the history of our country or about the wider history, the history of the world, who likes to see some concert of serious music, but who likes to watch a dance show and some foreign criminal show, which also likes to see something called collocchial soap opera, but it doesn't have to be that classic worthless or pointless TV series that runs, flows and flows both to us neither beginning nor end. In order for such television to exist and in which case television is likely to be watched, we cannot and must not only limit ourselves to those regulated or contracted content but must be a television that in every segment of the programme that exists will prey on its quality, prey on our viewer, our local viewer and which will be quality, viewed and thus influential. In this case, it would be a television that would be defended by pure commercialisation, which is not interested in content but in a pure profit for which, in accordance with the different interests of this country, there is the same space. However, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as a legislative body, do not have the obligation to take care of what this commercial programme will look like, of course, with some fundamental constraints, but they have the task of taking very good care of a television that will be a spine, ham, 100% commercialisation and all that does not have a positive but in principle a negative impact on social development. And for that reason, I am actually appealing to the promoter to seriously consider the amendments that have been made, that this law which is on the trail of a 10-year experience of an open, at least in the legislative sense of an open, public media service to upgrade the law with those things that have proved either insufficient or simple is the time, the course of time and the changes that occur primarily in the technological sense, that this law is complemented and that we continue to qualitatively create our own practice, to accept these amendments. They will certainly not be contrary to the development of public service and democratic environment within the public HRT and will certainly contribute to the consensus of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64641	Thank you very much. A esteemed colleague, Susana Bilić Vardić, also applied for the debate. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64642	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I agree with my colleague Vujic that it is not common in this House to speak in such a positive atmosphere when the topic of Croatian Radio Television is in which all clubs support the adoption of a new Law on Croatian Television but here. The final draft of the law, I suppose, also testifies to the importance that Croatian broadcasting has for the democratic state of Croatia. The final proposal for a law on Croatian Radio Television, which we are discussing today, marks that at the end of the road started formally in October 2009 by setting up a working group at the Ministry of Culture, which, in parallel with the creation and adoption of the new Electronic Media Act, started to bring the existing Law on HRT into line with the legal acquis of the European Union in the field of competition and which lasts for some 14 months and resulted in a new Law on HRT which I support. As colleagues and colleagues have also said in their discussions on the creation of this Law that went into two readings, with which numerous public debates were held, round tables show that the Croatian government did not put any pressure on Croatian broadcasters and that there were no attempts to etatise public television. This bill regulates the activity of the Croatian Radio Television in two ways. First, as a public service and as a commercial activity, with clearly distinguished sources of income and strictly delimited use of funds, this final proposal also provides for the provision of double accounting to avoid the use of funds derived from the commercial content fee or those obtained by the provision of services, i.e. commercial activities for public purposes. My colleagues and colleagues, I would not be as strict with regard to Croatia's broadcasting as some of my colleagues and colleagues said in their discussions, because let's not forget that the law, the existing law under which Croatian radiotelevision operates was passed in 2003, and that in 2009 or early 2010, when we started to create this law, we found a crisis of governance on Croatian radiotelevision, which is the result of a poor legislative framework, a crisis of supervision, and not only because of the incomplete number of members of the Programme Council, but also the vaguely defined legal role of the Programme Council, the financial situation on Croatian radiotelevision, because there is no supervision of finances on Croatian radiotelevision since 2003. I mean, that was the law. The crisis in the advertising market, which not only affected the media in the Republic of Croatia, but also in the world should not talk about the trend recorded on Croatian broadcasting, which is that it generates less revenue from commercial content year after year. And clearly, the situation is such that the need for restructuring and digitisation is imposed. Let us not forget when we talk about Croatia's broadcasting that in 2009 it ended up with a total revenue of €464525, of which only revenue from the fee was €13 million. On the side now and the loss that they achieved in their business, but the real question is whether they could have been different in such an environment in which the Programme Council did not have the role of supervision of finances, and we also know about the crisis of governance, resignations and temporary governance. In addition, Croatia's TV ended in 2009 with 3522 employees and some 300 part-time workers. According to the information I recently had in my hands, the 2009 FINA report on the business of the company, Croatia's broadcasting is in 12 places by the number of employees. So, among those companies that have over 1,000 employees. For one of these final draft laws, the established public service required the introduction of the administration of Croatian broadcasters, the Supervisory Board, so new bodies of the Croatian Radio Television Administration, the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television and the Programme Council. I said that in the first debate in the first reading of the proposal of this Law, we all, most of us in this House advocated that the election and number of members of the Programme Council remain according to the alternative offered. And I welcome the government's respect for this position, and therefore there is no change in the way of choice and composition of the Programme Council in which its role is strengthened. Clearly, the final proposal defines relations between these three management bodies in Croatia television, and the final draft of the law has given confidence, therefore trust and even greater responsibility to the Assembly Committee on Information, Information and Media to carry out during this transitional period of the task in order to ensure that the objectives of the final proposal of the law, namely that Croatian broadcasting is in line with the provisions of this Act within a year. Well, I hope that, after the adoption of this law, we will seriously adhere to this task as a member of this committee in order to meet the deadlines set, so that we can act within the deadlines set, and help to form and select new bodies on Croatian broadcasting and that Croatian television can live in accordance with the new Law on Croatian RadioTelevision, fulfill those tasks that made us decide to create and adopt a new law, and clearly benefit all those who use Croatian RadioTelevision services as a public service. In doing so, I think of all those citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who, in accordance with the law, pay the fee and that, with the new administration, the new Programme Council and the Supervisory Board, will fully achieve the most possible programming principles that this Law imposes on Croatian broadcasters, which do not differ in many of the existing legal solutions. Here is the desire to adopt this law as soon as possible in one of these, however, with one consensus I will support the adoption of the Law on Croatian Television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64643	Thank you, colleague. Replica, dear fellow Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64644	A colleague, Bilić Vardić, said that all clubs supported the bill. I haven't heard all the clubs, those who participated in the negotiations and agreements until yesterday probably did, but all the MPs still haven't backed the bill. A small difference or a significant one. And my support depends only on three things, whether the government will accept those amendments that strengthen the role of editors and journalists from the ordinary right to think about making decisions, other than whether we won't cut, shorten the time for marketing because we're all looking for a better program, less marketing, and we're against an increase in fees. It is impossible to realize, and I think that if the European rules allow us up to 12 minutes, we should not be papal. And ultimately, whether public television will be obliged to publish after all elections how many seconds, who and how many rabbits he paid directly or through FIMA-media, then we're clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64645	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64646	Thank you very much. My colleague Lesar, I know you're troubled by which club he pulled, or dropped the debate, so you missed your 10 minutes. ... No, it's not a fight, I like it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I know you're troubled by a club, I don't know if this club would support the adoption of this law, but I was talking about a positive atmosphere in which this law is being discussed, about amendments which, for example, some of them are the amendments of the Committee on Information, Information and Media to bring consensus, although it should be pointed out that most of the members as well as in the other working bodies of the Croatian Parliament have a parliamentary majority, but they are brought by consensus, and we expect, or we don't, but we're used to what you said that I will support if. Well, then it's called a colleague, I don't want that harsh word, it's a negotiation, I won't say blackmail, but I'll say it's also the subject of a deal, of conversation and of a particular compromise that can then result in a consensus on the adoption of this law. But I don't know, I didn't get it right or didn't hear what you're talking about, when in this bill, so in the final draft of the law, it's clearly said, unlike so far, that the amount, the amount of the monthly fee, is 1 and a half percent in the current one and a half percent in the new one and a half percent in the average monthly salary, the annual salary at the level of the Republic of Croatia. So it's smaller.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64647	Thank you. Replica, colleague Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64648	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You colleagues said that some MPs spoke more critically, with a review critical of Croatian broadcasting. So you see, therefore, as president of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia and in that segment, I cannot speak differently, so I must commend the Croatian Radio because it is a good programme and it is intended for Croats outside of Croatia on a full scale. However, on Croatian television, it seems that there are still mental sets of communists who experience Croats outside of Croatia as some kind of enemy emigration, for example. We had this, on television board meeting, the thematic session of the board as early as 2008 on the topic of the Croatian Radio Television Bridge between Croatia and Croatians in the world, where one of the conclusions of our committee was that, while respecting the full media freedom and independence of the board of all the Croatian programme units, Croatia expects to improve the scope and quality of the programme, especially when it comes to meeting the Croatian public about Croats outside Croatia, and especially about Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But since then nothing has changed, in fact new leadership now, if so can be said which is in this position in which, making the effort and took one step,... Croatia's Bosnia and Herzegovina chronicle, which was broadcast only on satellite and supported here and here, the Information and Media Committee put it on the first HTV programme, but do you know when? [[You don't understand.]] On Saturdays, I think 7:00 in the morning. So let's do something without doing it. Therefore, it is unacceptable for us, we simply believe that Croatian broadcasting must be an instrument in connecting all Croatians, all Croatian people no matter where they live, and that it will thus fulfil its obligation to us here as well as to the audience as such. And indeed enough with that mentality, with that damn mentality, I don't know what it is that is really from some times past who share Croats on these and those, and treat Croats in emigration as still some hostile unacceptable migration. I mean, it's a lot of real.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64649	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64650	Thank you, colleague Bagaric. I agree entirely with you and with your commitment to the place and position of Croats outside of Croatia in public television programmes, so it is Croatian public television, and I agree with you that the Croats are too few of us as people to share in those who are in Croatia and those who are outside the borders of the country, and that therefore those who are outside the borders of the country would be in a more unfavourable position and, by the will of us who live in our own country. I don't know what you called yourself, you found yourself called for this, and I reacted in that sense to that, in that statement that Croatian television will either be good or it won't be. My colleague, I think that you agree with me that Croatian television exists and now, we are not satisfied with it but it exists and it will be, but the other thing is that until now, by slaved to some things we shouldn't slave for, we haven't taken all that we could do. Let us not forget that the founder of Croatian Radio Television is the Republic of Croatia, and that the founding rights have the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and then we should not be afraid and enslaved by the laws for which they are, these are European laws and must not be touched, which will tell the public what Europe will say. If something is applied and law enforcement shows that it is not good, I am in favour of acting more effectively and much earlier and much more effectively by changing the law or by changing those who conduct this law on Croatian television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64651	I guess those who don't, those who spend it shouldn't. ... All right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's move on with the debate, dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go, sweetie.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64652	Mr. Vice President, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here I will start my debate the following way – tomorrow is International Day for Persons with Disabilities and I will have to go to one marking after this debate, so here I thank my colleague Goran Marić who gave me his place to speak before I come to order, and I want to thank you, Mr. Minister and your associates, on behalf of all persons with disabilities, because here is the game of the case that we are discussing this law today. And I want to thank you for putting people with disabilities in this law in a few articles that we haven't had before. People with disabilities as a whole, so throughout the Republic of Croatia are not fully satisfied with HRT, i.e. they are not satisfied with how much of the program is dedicated to their problem, and even when there is only one show on HRT that deals exclusively with the problem of people with disabilities, on several occasions we have already mentioned that in this assembly, and so are the persons with disabilities that the term of this show is inappropriate, it is inappropriate and its rerun. So when people with disabilities are not able to track such a show at all, but good. We made some kind of deal with the leaders on HRT to arrange for that term to be moved, imagine, in half an hour. Well, it's better than nothing. However, it is not in the interest of people with disabilities to have only their own show and to be one or five or 10, but it is in their interest to talk in all shows about people with disabilities, not only their problems but also positive examples, which is certainly far more useful for the whole nation, I can say here freely. Because if you're going to be honest, I know my problems and I know probably how I'm going to solve them, but many people who don't meet them know little or almost nothing about it, so these shows that talk about people with disabilities are certainly more useful and educational for those with disabilities. One example, which I also mentioned here once, a very important fact, is a very important event, which is the signing of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in New York nearly 4 years ago, a little over 3.5 years ago by the Croatian Television, or the central CROMAC, has not shown a picture but, imagine, once again in a sentence, and in the background when it comes to Croatia and the then vice president of the Government, who is signing the Convention in the background of the images, I don't know now whether Uruguay or any other country. People with disabilities were then bitter because at the very least it was incorrect. The UN Convention is a document that is above all laws and under which we are obliged to act, and the Croatian public is unfortunately not informed through their public television in the most qualitative way possible. But here it hasn't waited long, since we've criticised a lot at the time, and yet by this law, I have to say, some things on HRT have changed, and what I want to praise HRT for at this point, which is a fee that some categories of people with disabilities have been freed from which HRT has not given up, and it could. Because the 2003 law did not give the possibility and did not order the release of certain categories, but the HRT respected acquired rights, so from a long time ago, when then the leaders of the Associations of Persons with Disabilities fought for that privilege. And here, in a special way, I also commend this law because this law in its Article 35 has given the Supervisory Board the opportunity to free certain categories of users from either partially or completely free from payment of a subscription to HRT. I firmly believe there will be people with disabilities. Teached by the good experience of the HRT people who really had an understanding for this part of the problem. Both to the Committee on Information and to other committees, and to me personally, the Ombudsman for people with disabilities has made several proposals to make this law work a little bit, and to make it as high as possible and not just for people with disabilities but also for all other people who may not be, but since we never know what tomorrow awaits us, we must foresee such things. So here I am thanking the Ministry for putting some of these two readings into the final draft of the law, some of the defense attorney's proposals, and here's one that hasn't been included, and for justifiable reasons. Maybe we should have explained that a little bit more in detail. I have also prepared the amendment, and I believe that you will consider it in detail, and this is that in Article 9 paragraph 2 in subparagraph 7. is placed at the end when it is said that HRT will especially adapt to implementation, etc. co-produce programmes on people with disabilities to add in the end that they will also encourage translation of the programme not only these. That's why I'm explaining this, Mr. Minister, because I wrote the programs, so not only those that are spoken of here but all the programs, but to encourage the translation of these programs into Croatian sign language. This is what the Croatian Union of Deaf and Deaf Persons has been praying for decades and I believe that you will consider the amendment in detail and that you will ultimately accept it. In advance, they thank you because for deaf people something that is extremely important, it is their window into the world, and it is bound by the convention that I was talking about, it is binding on our national documents, a national-level strategy to media and all the information and all the news we make available to people with disabilities. Of course, we understand when here at the very beginning of the law when we talk in Article 6(2) about how we need to gradually make audiovisual media services available to people with hearing and vision damage. This refers to a reasonable adjustment and we believe that people on HRT who have already spoken since we moved on to the digital system, that all of this will be far simpler and that it will not take so much of the financial resources that were previously talked about. Anyway, here I am at the end of this debate, I would like to say that I support this law, because I believe that, of course, it will, together with the amendments that have been accepted, which I do not doubt, Mr. Minister, that you will consider and accept in detail the number of amendments proposed. So, together with the amendments, this law will make Croatia a public service television that will be even more accessible, even more quality, even more accessible to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and as counterpart Bagarić and all those Croats outside the country said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64653	Thank you very much. We have a replica of our colleague Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64654	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Lukacic. It was actually very pleasant for me to listen to your individual debate because you certainly sent a message on behalf of all persons with disabilities in the end about their better quality of life. Just as I am convinced, as we all could read, this is the result of a wide public expert discussion of a series of sides of round tables, expert discussions that contributed to such a quality law. But I would also like to say that in other areas, I would say human approach to life, because everything we do, we are working on that plan to make people more accessible, more comfortable and ultimately all of us benefit more. And I have a personal need to thank also the people with HTV when they clearly promote awareness of the prevention of domestic violence, violence among children and young people, children and young people, just as I must say that every honour for all public calls for participation in humanitarian actions is certainly a contribution to the quality of all of us viewers in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64655	Thank you very much, colleague Klaric. There's no response to the replica, so let's move on with the debate. A colleague, Krunoslav Markovović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64656	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here we are today, it's really a clerical atmosphere. It's amazing we all agree. We are passing an extremely important law on HRT, and yet at first I must take advantage of the opportunity and commend both the Minister and these men who have passed everything and everything, round tables and I do not know all kinds of round tables, where they have been suggested many good things but have been offended. So there was everything and everything exhibitionism and so on and so forth and a lot of their good will to do together with clubs, a few clubs that participate in agreeing amendments to achieve what is now ahead of us. So this law, which I suppose we'll all support and which should significantly change the situation on HRT. That's what we all expect. Because I wouldn't exactly agree with my colleague today, a very quoted colleague, Bagaric, who speaks or TV will be good or it won't be. I don't think so. We've had television for years, and I don't know how good it is, so it's holding very tight. And she'd stick to it a lot tighter if it wasn't for the waste of former administrations that actually brought television into losses, there was everything there on all lines, profits and I mean enough arguments to say that toughness doesn't depend on the law. This law brings little definition of things that are good, above all funding. Double funding, but with double accounting to know exactly what's going on in which part, because people are reluctant to give a fee they have to pay, if they don't get what they want. And this means that with education and all those values, the traditional values of the people that television must give, it must show people, normally that fun and song and everything else should go, but also a quality information program. Here we have to save HRT quite a bit because it seems to me that competition is causing her great losses, as far as the information program and ratings are concerned, and it's high time for a few people to imagine who are working on it. Especially these days, I always praise the radio, so that radio part of HRT where there are some very interesting shows that we all like to listen to, especially in the morning when we travel to work, so she's from half eight to eight, from eight to nine, but some things with all the praise are incomprehensible to me. A week ago, she was a guest anonymous unionist. The whole hour she spoke persistently against all of the Croatian Parliament in terms of I do not know how educated, but I read which, here and there I read something, but those in the IQ themselves said how much it cost a kilo of brains, and as far as honesty is concerned, they said themselves who put up the pit, pitied. For an hour, the editor nodded her head, gave her all the right stuff to say. All right, come on, it's over. That today again morning the same unionist this time on the phone, and not in the studio, strikes again in every possible way around the Parliament. It is incomprehensible that if people choose their counterparts, they only have to choose those who are fiercely pummeling at us who are actually passing the Law on Croatian Radio Television and I do not believe that it happened by accident. So with so much underestimation, with so much spit on everyone who works really well here despite all the stories. It's easy to record the Parliament in the morning at half past nine or half past ten, it was the same thing that at half nine was taken before work, so she said empty or at half past ten, let's say especially if some club still sits, the Parliament is empty, etc., no one does anything. It is easy to say, but the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament is also great in the adoption of all laws and I think it is done on boards and here, but it is also a great responsibility for this law, and this law is done well. The past law had its own deadline, it passed. Obviously, in recent years nothing has worked anymore because here's the problem of the Program Council's non-choice, and there's a lot of politics, we're not going to deliberately do ours so it won't be a quorum, so we're going to charge you with blocking us and stuff. So these are games that are here in the pre-election year you could say, I won't say normal, but understandable. And I think this way of choosing the Programme Council, the Supervisory Board, is still going to, it's similar, but I believe there will be enough reason to actually do it well on the Information Committee and to agree on a lot of it, and what's most important is that we agree that television is public. So not a party but a public one, to make it clear to everyone, to be equal to all parties because I know that it was a preventive attack by the SDP that the law was wrong, first reading and so on, because they were afraid to lose their privileged position on Croatian broadcasting. It was normal for me, it was understandable, but I believe that it will be no more, and that our colleagues from the opposition, and we also realize that only public television, so television in which everyone will participate equally, will have the right to say that television will be watched. I'm quality, it's hard to say about quality. It was, I remember five, six years ago there was no entertainment show, there was no tambourine, there was no folklore, there was nothing. So, one gray that we've just been here and here in the Parliament have been fiercely critical of and said that we have to go back to our roots and everything that people really have to, they have to get to feel good, they've moved us, and it's changed. But what's a little bit incomprehensible to me, I know that the situation on television is extremely bad, and that's probably the reason for this whole gray, black, pessimism in television programs, television shows. Because why every show starts with disaster, I don't know which way I'm talking here in Parliament. Every news show always if there's no disaster here, and there's one in Pakistan, India, China, there's always some disaster that's gonna be breaking news. Clearly, today in this world where we live every news is here in a few minutes on all servers, so it can be found, picked up. But why aren't we a little optimistic, because I don't think optimism hurts any strangers or the opposition, because if she goes only with black I'm not sure everyone likes black. Sip syndrome, what I said before, I don't know how pleasant it is, so I believe it won't be like that. So positive indicators all possible hide or immediately you have one man who says something positive immediately finds three people who will speak negatively. Of course, there's a lot of things here, and there's a lot of things that are possible because they shoot 20 people, so they pick three, four. And I don't understand why the editors think that people only like black chronicles. That's what's going on in the press, not just television, and I believe the situation will get better. We are going back to the information program again, but I must commend the whole series of shows and documentaries and quality entertainment shows that are on Croatian Radio and it is good that the Programme Council supports it. I know he can't determine what's going to happen, but a little support always comes in handy. And I believe in this whole situation that everything can still be different and better, so let this law right here on our side be an incentive for Croatian broadcasting to start thinking differently. I know that at this point, the temporary administration has a terrible problem, it has to deal with its personnel within the law. Here we have heard today, perhaps among these part-timers who have left there are those who work very well and among those who have stayed there are those who are long-dipping or who are either gone or do nothing or do nothing, so a fine balance would be good to do precisely for the quality of the program. So once again, here is a commendation to the ministry, commending the minister for his patience because he had to listen to many of us. And here's the law I really think is one of the few laws that we all talk about together for the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64657	Thank you. We have now reported four replicas. First, a colleague of Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64658	I'd just like to take a quick look at what Mr. Markovanovic said, so it's not really, I don't really agree that it wasn't folklore and all, so "We've had a nice time" for years, you skipped something. Secondly, apparently people who work on television, who are professionally familiar with human psychology, so they know that people like to hear these worse, black news sometimes, and you have to make sure that they also take care of ratings, that this is very important ratings, can only be achieved in this way. However, what I have reported is to commend Mr. Minister Biskupić and his team for their patience and the way they have conducted this public debate for a year. I would especially like to mention the role of young Miss Nina Obulen, who was on all the boards and who explained it to us all wonderfully, is unfortunately prevented from being here today. So I want it to be known that she also put a lot of effort into these round tables and public debates and everything the public asked for, so it was a very transparent process that was being conducted. And as for the former administrations and their wastefulness, obviously we're gonna get over it with this law. It is also a very important way to choose the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board and no one will have a two-thirds majority if I understand correctly what it is that we will have to come to a consensus and that the programme will be getting better and better, that we are making very good progress. I would like to refer to Mr. Bagaric and Mrs. Lukacic's discussions. I think it is important to make sure that the Croats outside Croatia are also well represented and that we also take care of persons with disabilities because this is also very important for the overall picture of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64659	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64660	Well, here's what I have to tell my colleague that she's still wrong because she's been one at a time for a couple of years, and she's been taking a break from ours and stuff. But, well, I've had enough of that, and we remember a lot, and then it turns out that way. And as for the administration, we talked a little bit about management. I have to say, management worked well. They were doing an external program, so then they were selling it to themselves and it was pretty good, but it was expensive. Well, now quality is hard to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64661	Thank you. A colleague, Bagaric, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64662	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Our Crown whenever he speaks and when in parts of his speech I agree I like the way he speaks and I support this speech about Croatian broadcasting. However, only one answer of mine to the quality, non-quality Croatian radio-television. So far, it has survived thanks to safe sources of funding and no control whatsoever. However, now Article 13 of the Croatian government will sign a contract with Croatian Radio Television and will not sign a contract unless the television is committed to a quality programme and to the implementation of all those obligations that should then be respected. Therefore, I really believe that the future of Croatian broadcasting is, we hope that it will be, that it will be of quality and that it will survive. Otherwise, I believe it won't last. I also agree with you when you were talking about a grey that really prevails on Croatian radio and here, please, I hope that someone will really raise some optimism and take care of it. On the other hand, let's remember all that news about the wolf who fell into the well. Well, that's interesting news, too. However, the news in the first journal to be shown in this way until, say, a nation in the neighbouring country, our people in a war halved by the tendency to disappear turns out to be hardly interested in anyone in Croatia's broadcasting. That's really inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64663	Thank you. The answer to the replica Kruno Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64664	Well, here it is true that Croatian broadcasting will sign the contract and that it is finally some fuse, so something that the program will be quality or at least an attempt of quality. But I believe in the profession, so it'll be quality. As far as the breaking news is concerned, I do not know the wolf and the rest is difficult to speak, but the fact is that Croatian radio television has to take care of Croats outside Croatia because the team before it is actually seen in Bosnia and Herzegovina as well, in Vojvodina. So, very watched and gladly watched what I hear from these people, and I think it's a job that should not be ignored and cared for. And it is precisely in that fuse that the future needs to be clearly and loudly stated. So, I expect you to actually take care of our here are the Croats outside the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64665	Thank you. Next, a colleague, Marijana Petir, came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64666	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your discussion, you mentioned some relations and situations on Croatian radio and I must say as in other professions and other jobs in each crop there are dolls, so logically there is also on HTV. But I would say that on HTV there are also great shows and great journalists and anyone who works well in journalism, whether in politics or in any other profession should give credit. Surely there are those situations that are not good, and we have already brought them up when we discussed this Law and the report on HRT's work. Of course, those bad situations are most visible in the information programme because we are most interested in the entire Croatian public. And it is certain that they should be reacted to by those who are the most responsible, who receive salaries for this, and very high salaries that are much higher than the pay, who have official cars and cards unlike the MPs, and that in such situations as you mentioned when it comes to Mrs. trade unionist who calls MPs to be ignorant, and herself admits that she was unable to graduate from college unlike most college representatives, some students, some and two colleges. She also says in those shows that MPs and politicians are unemployed, and as far as I know, she recently joined a political party. In such situations, then, it is certain that it is on the head to be correct and to react and to protect the dignity of especially those who are not present in the study and who cannot defend themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64667	Mr. Markovanovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64668	Well, here's a thank you to my colleague for commenting on what I said with clear everything that should be and how it should be. But the fact is that I had to say this, some things, because lately, unfounded attacks on the Croatian Parliament have really been crossing all the lines. I know that, here's how long this people have been without their country, too long without their authority, and I say some of the farmers have smuggled themselves to this day. But the fact is that no matter who was in power, which party was in power to amazingly that people don't like their own government in their own country. And that's why I think it's gonna be a while. People will understand that they have their own state and that no one would be better for them from the countries where they went in history, that they went around all over Europe looking for someone who would rule them, and they couldn't agree on it themselves. Yeah? As for the lady unionist, I'm not surprised, be careful what she tells that story. It has its own vision, but I am surprised at those who in ten days twice allow it to strike on the most listening radio show so embarrassingly, unculturally, rudely in the Croatian Parliament that it would probably not be said in the enemy Parliament either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64669	And I guess he's got women of ambition! We're moving on with the replicas. Dear colleague Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64670	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I support and agree with my colleague Markovinović, as I hope most of those present in this assembly, with your view that public television is a public service of citizens and as a public institution which the Republic of Croatia undertakes to carry out the activities of providing public broadcasting services. But what to say today when a colleague, and I'm interested in your opinion, when a colleague defining and determining his party's relationship to public television and radio, says that this relationship is very well known, and then the same public television is called an election prize that they couldn't, which they could but didn't use. This fellow and his party, I am interested in your opinion, and I personally want the next term to remain in the position of the chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, no matter what he thinks. Or colleague Markovinović, what do you think, about programs, or about the shows that Croatian broadcasting as a public service broadcasts in the late evening hours, in which, with four guests and a host or host, it is not important that I do not talk about the Decidated, it presents its personal position by conforming to one or another option. What to say at one of the round tables, i.e. public debates that were under way to draft a final proposal for HRT law, when one of the editors on Croatian Radio Television said that there is corruption on TV and remains alive, because after that I did not see, although I asked the performer of duties which were not against the editors, but because of what he stated.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64671	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Kruno Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64672	Here's a colleague who may have said on TV that there are shows that are bought and so on, I don't have to go into it or not, but it seems to me that there are good sources from television, because a lot of things he's said in his discussions, but I think it's a precedent in the Croatian Parliament, that someone who's spoken in the Assembly is suing for a word that's circumstantial this time, because in the end we won't be able to talk about anything else, or crime at any company, and each of these companies has enough money to hire some kind of lawyer who's going to sue for damages, because every word of ours can do any harm, and most of all the vermin who have the most money and who can do the most damage to lawyers for the spoken word. And here, the Croatian Radio Television, I don't think it should have been an example of what I hope the court won't respect, even if the Constitutional Court at the end of the story, because it's one of the ugly ways of dealing with those who say often, and think differently, who often tell the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64673	Thank you very much. It is up to the debate of the distinguished colleague of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go, Doctor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64674	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The law before us is extensive and extensive are already described by colleagues and colleagues, so I will actually talk more about the need to pass this law than about its constituents. Why is the law necessary? Why is it necessary? Why is he coming at the last minute? To correct a severe chronic Croatian disease called Croatian Radiotelevision. This disease has two major severe symptoms. One is financial, and the other is programming, so I'm going to talk about one and the other, because I think this law is opening the way for healing both of them and another of the severe symptoms. Croatian radiotelevision in financial terms is still another socialist mastodon sucking on straw from all pockets of our citizens and citizens and every year sucks out a billion and 200 million kuna, earning another 200 to 250 million of its activities. What does it give for this billion and 200 million kuna? Public television should be provided, but they unfortunately do not give the programme, because the difference between HRT public television and commercial programmes does not practically exist, in the largest number of editorials. A few words about their funding, i.e. how to manage our money, with money from Croatian citizens and citizens. First of all, there are 3 and a half thousand plus 300 fees that the new administration is now trying to solve, 3 and a half thousand on two programs and earned, when compared to the hours of commercial television programs, they are about one minute more than on commercial televisions. So the program would have to be three to five times better, unfortunately not. Payments on Croatian TV, management contracts are secret, public television has secret management contracts. So what we know is we don't get from the HRT report to this Parliament, which is their supervisory body, but we read only in the papers, that they're not denied I believe in them. For example. Former director-in-chief Mr. Vanja Sutlic had a manager's contract, his term of office expired, but he did not end his contract, but he will receive the principal's salary for another 5 years after writing the media, and he will forget it was already there, and he will receive that salary. Why? Because the money fell out of the sky, so since we didn't care about it, it came out of your pockets, we're spending it. The same gentleman allegedly had 11 assistants, and their contracts will pay them another five years, some and more if they're younger, even though they're no longer assistants, and they'll forget they were assistants, but you won't forget about the nice big money. Management contracts provide them with, when their mandate expires and large damages, because they have done so well that Croatian citizens still pay them... They pay because they're gone, not because they did well. [[You don't understand.]] According to the newspaper, electronic input control has shown that 300 employees have not been through the door of HRT for months, not those who work in the field, they appear neatly because they work, they don't work in the field or in HRT, they don't even have to come for pay anymore because they are sent by electronic means to their bank accounts. Television does business with losses, but wages don't go down. The TV's cramping in debt, but the number of employees isn't getting any lower. When we warned about this in previous discussions, about the HRT report, and when we denied them a positive opinion, they walked out of these benches laughing because the negative opinion meant absolutely nothing to them. Even some politicians were protecting them. Let's just say that I remember a few years ago when we denied their opinion, so we turned it down. President Mesic at the time said – the forces of darkness spoke in the Parliament. The forces of darkness were us who showed what was going on there. I hope that the BOOK and the police and the financial inspection that are there will show that we were not forces of darkness but were forces of light in that tunnel. I don't want to talk about finances anymore because I hope soon the results and the new management that started to clean up that irregularities come out of the data. But I have to say something about the role of public television. Public television should primarily have a programme whose purpose is to protect national interests. This is the difference between public television and commercial that can protect the interests of its principle, its owner in another country. If you want to watch it, you'll watch it, if you don't, no. But we pay public television to protect our national interests. How does she do that? You'll see the best in information shows. According to information shows, the most common central CROMAC journal appears to have been recorded in a fourth or fifth country. Because in this journal you can't see whose national interests this journal protects. Let's say the president of the Dnevnik did an interview with the president of the neighbouring country, and he's so critical of his government that the president of that country is correcting him and saying, "I don't follow the work of your government, and your government is doing well in this economic crisis." The president of the other country protects Croatia's national interests on our national television station next to our Dnevnik leader. Or, for example, when the same manager of Dnevnik, speaking with the forced manager of a company, says – you could also be prime minister in Croatia and prevent Croatia that is facing bankruptcy, and the talker tells him nicely – but I am a businessman, I understand that, Croatia is not in front of bankruptcy. This leader does not protect national interests, perhaps, but some other nations and some other countries. Or when, for example. Some day Croatian representatives close down 3 chapters after 10 years of heavy negotiation involving 100s and 100s of people, and in these 3 chapters we achieve 3 major successes. First, a 7-year delay in selling the country + the possibility to extend to 3 years. No one has ever done that in Europe. No candidate for the EU. Or, for example, moratorium for sale to foreigners of our sea transport lines. Or, for example, introduction of Croatian language as official. What do you think of national, public television that was the news in a row? You'll bet she was first. No, that was the 11th news in a row. The 11th news after years of effort, much of the government, experts, positions and opposition, national interest does not distinguish the position and opposition. But national television does not distinguish national interest from international interest. I could list such heavy ones, I'd say, a violation of respect for national interest. There is no time, so I will mention just that there is an editor on the Central Journal, whose name I will not say not to be sued by the court, because the latest practice is that television is suing court representatives, when this gentleman falsely accused the largest employer in Croatia of not paying contributions and not paying his business partners. What does economics mean? Is this a national interest to destroy the strongest employer in Croatia? I hope that under the new law, a new administrative structure will find adequate therapy, and I dare say that should be a sanction for such editors who do not protect national interests. And what is the result of such a HRT national programme we see in view. I've got to read you what's hard to find in the media because it's a no-show. The central HTV Log whose minute costs 3 times more than 1 minute Competition Log, this central Dnevnik fell to 12.5% during the time of Nova TV's 14.6% and when it passed and a small RTL has over 12% as well. Or the target population between the ages of 18 and 49, which is actually the biggest consumer, which is why ads are then paid. In the target population, the central Dnevnik was seen by 6.9%, e.g. New TV with 11%. I believe that the new system that sets up the warden of money spending, I believe that the new Programme Council will set criteria of national interest and that sanctions will finally begin. And until then, we suffer this kind of HRT and we believe that this law will come to life and that it will be a good therapeutic tool for this severe chronic disease called HRT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64675	Thank you. We have a single replica reported. Dear colleague Kulusic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64676	My colleague Hebrang absolutely agrees with your debate, but when you talked about the role of public television one example from 10 days ago in Drnis and Knin was signed a 22m-euro contract for the disposal of Drnis and Knin, and at no time did Croatian television give itself the right, not for the right, but it should be an obligation, for the importance of this contract in this crisis time that 170 million kunas in Drnis and Knin for the disposal to be in the first Journal, which is one of millions of other examples. And what my colleague Bagaric said seems to be more public interest, that the wolf has fallen into the well than 170 million kunas have been invested somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64677	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64678	Thank you very much. Here, a colleague gave an extraordinary example, which means the infrastructure in Drnis towards the wolf that fell into the well. And now they'd wonder, and why is the wolf more important than Drnishan, why is it more important than infrastructure? Well, the answer is very simple. It's more important because the blind are making a program, and the blind are political, they're blind national, they're blind professionally, they're blind professionally. And I believe this law will open their eyes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64679	Thank you. Next to discuss, a distinguished colleague named Jerko Roshin appeared. Here's your colleague, Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64680	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with his associates and this Croatian public watching us over small screens still. I would start with only one compliment in relation to the law that was written very professionally and predicting a lot that should ensure good work of public television. I would only commend the minister's presence, so we don't normally have ministers defending the laws they're making. Well, in that sense, on my part of gratitude. But I would say that the laws are in principle only assumptions of good work, the law does not guarantee professionality, professionality, or orderliness, or the composition of news, etc. and practice often does not reflect what was provided for by law. The laws don't usually regulate what happens then what the law says doesn't happen. However, the complexity of the problem of public television is much greater than just one programme or one editor, although I do not think it is important, but I would like to say that we are not really aware of a digital revolution that does not just mean changing the technology of a different broadcast program from analogue to digital, but it is more than one and a global change in society as a whole. And that change happens at one speed that hasn't been recorded in history yet. With this I would like to say that the adjustment and those who are working professionally on it are also us who approach it as conjunctival in a certain way is very large and that the very fact that the speed of availability of news that is simultaneously happening in a world, at the same time we have it here, even with one medium we have it transferred to another medium shows what this digital revolution in the world means today. But our theme is public television, the Law is about public TV of HRT, and when we talk about what public television should mean in principle, then they would say that in some way its trademark should be information and culture, and culture should not only be about spreading information from culture but also education that leads to one culture, so that should be the main interest. Unfortunately, something else is opposed today, and this is based on an ever-increasing, growing and growing idolization of the market. This is one of the damages that arises in which everything we talk about is viewed through the prism of how it goes on the market, which practically vulgarizes relationships between people, between phenomena of ethical harm. In that sense, commercial television that their base is located in America from where it's all come from, they've developed this commercialization to perfection that I don't think commercial television is necessary and that it's not good, but I point out this only to spread this tension between commercial and public television to see the diversity of functions and purposes of public television versus commercial television. And what has been discussed lately all along is how much of a minute for advertising is the commercial part from which it is financed, and it's not really talking about something that is much more important and more fundamentally how the program is drawn up and what the program is carrying, what messages it is carrying. So we're talking about commercialising public television, although we're aware that commercialization leads to these vulgarities that I've been talking about. It's funny, but it's actually hypocritical as funny as Mr. Sylvia Barlusconia's statement, which is also the ruler of a certain part of commercial television, who said that news is actually a whole program of television actually filling breaks between ads, between propaganda. It's very ironic, it's cynical, however you want to say it, but unfortunately there are increasingly truths, which means that the media has lost their basic values of giving a message and have become their own kind of goods. I'd like to read you a brief quote from one of the theorists on television who gave a gentleman's name... who gave my apologies for this impact on the microphone, who gave a lot of thoughts important to the perception of public television, and he said, "The public-wide information factor that was once the point of the media spreading information, culture education receded in front of mere entertainment and entertainment in front of unbridled triviality." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Advertising anything, even if at that time you went to think of a charm or a toilet or I don't know what while these ads last, but advertising anything, leaving aside any consideration towards discretion, lack of compassion, modesty in nature is today's entertainment. Our diseased spirit of time considers everything that happens appropriate for public preaching. This harmful process is known as letting it out, whatever you're thinking about letting it out, some kind of empty-headed brainwashing. Society turns upside down and then remembers Sigmund Freud saying, "Sigmund Freud has noticed that shamelessness is a symptom of weakness." Hard words, but it looks like Gerd Bacher's right. Whatever is treated unprofitable is doomed today. Not only the media, but also sport, culture, education, health care, and even human relations and friendships if they are not incorporated into material or political interests. In fact, there's a fine line between culture and barbarism, and there's nothing thinner than in electronic media. The fall in the quality of the profession is obvious, it is also present on Croatian TV but in general but we are concerned by our Croatian television, which is then by law or by philosophy of the dialectics of quantity in quality shows that the less quality is needed by a greater number of people to achieve this quality. Does this mean that HTV has too many employees compared to the quality that you would possibly like to present? Nature on a series of examples proves that precisely by increasing the mass it wants to compensate for quality. But the worst part is that in the multimedia era, TV itself will especially publicly stop being a dominant medium and almost disappears completely in global megaindustry. The prospects for public TV are not pink, it is safe and should be spoken seriously. The policy problem of public television does not essentially understand, because to understand essentially then it would be different, so the example of this law is at least an attempt to institutionally, legislatively set up some frameworks and conditions for practice to be better. Politics deals with influence, we all talk or talk when political parties talk about it, by fighting for influence on television, and that influence on television can really be very big. Here are examples of colleagues who spoke, also talking about political and national and professional influences that can be very negative. Politics only think about today, and today actually means living in the past. To live today, we'd have to think about what's coming for us in the future. Politics, we in Parliament and everyone else in the first row are obliged to think of public television as the identity of the people, that's what fellow Hebrang was talking about. Croatian television must promote national interests and national identity in all aspects that need to show what it means to convey knowledge of our common heritage and transfer it from before to the future. Today, public television is more necessary than ever to preserve these values that are too commercial in the market when news and what is shown becomes a kind of fast food, as in gastronomy fast food, so it's fast news, media fast food. And I would like to conclude to you, with the support of the need for Croatian Sign Language on television, I would like to conclude another short quote by the same television theorists who says: public television is therefore in danger because of the lack of a political community who is unable to understand that the commercial media industry does not care at all about political issues or for the general good. Public television will also become its biggest, even though it does not want to, if the enemy continues to interfere with its function with institutional organisational and corporate identity. There's no point in commercialising public television because competition can do it without charging licenses. That's why I think we should take care of all the ways in which we can finance television, but that the money they get is spent in the best professional way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64681	Thank you, Comrade Roshin. Two replicas have been reported. First of all, dear colleague Hebrang, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64682	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Roshin, I must say that you have amazed me with your information that Croatian television is broadcasting this debate. So is it possible that they care so much about their skin, and they don't tolerate the debate when we talk about the salaries of our workers here, about unemployment, about the problems of agriculture, about the pensions of our pensioners who live hard, the troubles, when we talk about the problems of our young people, about education that isn't available to everyone? Then they don't pass on these discussions, and now that they're taking care of their skin, they're passing it on to the people to show what they're like. If it is true that they are broadcasting then it is now clear to me why some political parties have come out of this booth, because they do not want to criticise Croatian broadcasting because it is ideologically appropriate to them anyway and supports them, indirectly, of course. But I still have to conclude, and I don't know if you colleagues will agree, if you really pass this debate on to protect your skin, then it's not public anymore, it's pathetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64683	My colleague Roshin, the reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64684	So I agree that you can draw from this fact various conclusions as to why Croatian television is conveying it and why we are also parliamentary representatives when Croatian television is transferring sessions more actively than we would otherwise be because TV is in some way our stage that we can address the public with the messages we want the public to hear. But in any case, regardless of these connotations, I am pleased that Croatian television is broadcasting the debate on Croatian television and that viewers can hear what is heard about Croatian television if they have not had the opportunity to hear about it. But what I wanted to point out is the difference between commercial and public television, this time about HRT because its function is much more responsible, greater and more important than commercial television that can be as the owners of that television want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64685	Thank you. And another replica, dear colleague Vukic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64686	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Listening to this afternoon's debate on the HRT Act, it is easy to conclude that HDZ is a party that wants to regulate the legal situation on public television and fix it for the better. Also, to conclude from certain discussions that we HDZ are not satisfied with the situation on HRT. But, Mr. Roshin, are you concerned, and so are the other colleagues, the fact that there are very few representatives of the opposition in the assembly while we talk about the HRT Act. And is it saying that they are satisfied with the situation on HRT or are right that citizens who say it is SDP's television so they are satisfied and do not need this debate or may have gone to edit the informative emissions of Croatian broadcasters.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64687	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64688	A colleague Vukic, and you have concluded something that is evident, which is not possible, the picture shows this relationship and the conclusion would be that someone who does not participate in a particular debate supports the state he is. Thus, in that sense, it is both the assessment and the law that they do not need this law because it has been quite satisfactory so far. It is already a political dimension compared to what I have distinguished from my speech between law and practice because the abuse of media that is very important, just as important and freedom of the media in... In a sense, such abuse of the media in a negative sense suggests that the media can be turned against someone, against something or in any case, that they may not be in favour of what the assumption was intended by law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is truly surprising, I will not speak of a worrying situation because they themselves know why they did so, but it is surprising that both in the debate and in the presence of the assembly of the other side of the Parliament tonight there is no. Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64689	Thank you. Here's what it means to say "transmission," it just came out right away. Let's move on with the debate. Comrade Goran Maric, it's your turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64690	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers with an associate, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So one of the main criteria and criteria of one society's development, social relations is exactly the development and level of professionalism, subjectivity levels, level of public television objectivity. This also measures the situation in society. A colleague, Vujic, said here that HTV must be either good or not. HTV must exist and must not be good but must be excellent because it is the only way it can protect national interests and only because it can play its part. And the truth is, over the past few years, everything has been just not great. It's true before it could be the unit of measures for business failure, for business disorder, and if we said it in one word then we'd say that it was the chaos of the one who ruled for years and years there. But no wonder who was sitting in front of everyone and who ran everything from all kinds of ignorant people, all sorts of hohstaflers, all kinds of different individuals who were just posers and not that, they didn't do what they expected. But it must be pointed out that HTV's past 20 years and played a positive role in society and must not be ignored from the war on. However, when discussing HTV and everything else should be kept in mind that everyone is measuring each other, each looking from their own angle, everyone talking, thinking with a certain dose of subjectivity, each with different tendencies, different tastes. Though we all live under the same sky, our horizons are different. That is why there are so many different observations, different remarks, suggestions to regulate this law and there were them in the first reading. There are more of them today. No wonder. I've had a lot of objections myself. Some are accepted, some are not accepted. And it is, nor is it strange, and it is good, because it is impossible to please everyone and it is in vain to please everyone. Anyone who builds a house listens to all other people's advice builds a twisted house. But I'm going to try HTV, and on this bill, I'm going to say a few principles by caring, caring, and taking care of one fundamental principle that a minority should never terrorise the majority. I am sure that this bill will be a good framework for a better, more efficient, more professional, more responsible Croatian broadcasting, and will be the most dependent on those elected to the Programme Council, the Supervisory Board and the Management Board, which will depend on both the professionality and success of Croatian broadcasting. I don't think HTV shows should be ideologically colored and there are. For example, Latina announces the next Latina and in the announcement talks about guests who are not on the show, and does not announce guests who are on the show. He announces those who are in the attachments, and when the show is broadcast, then the assembly of the order changes the speaker, and the one who spoke the fifth, on the show when the show goes, the first one goes, and the first one goes, the second one changes everything. It is not an accident and it is deliberately done, and it is unacceptable on Croatian television, on public television to do so. So many times I have seen a contribution from the Parliament when someone's debate is commented, and a picture of another individual who is not at all in the Parliament, nor has he come to the Parliament that day. It's not even an accident, he wasn't even in a relationship before. There are cases like that. If it's not an accident, it's unprofessional, irresponsible, extremely inappropriate behavior. Special part-time leaders are hired and paid, and so much human potential not used on Croatian radio and so much good potential that they can choose the best from both good and excellent. And they don't, they don't want to choose their own, but they bring their own from the outside and they pay to and they don't know how much they pay, how much they cost you, twice as much as it's a representative's salary, twice as much is paid by individual leaders. So the fifth day is planned, so the quizs are all sorts of things. Is that a public television interest? It can't be at all. Neither national interest nor the interest of the Republic of Croatia nor of all of us here. Car racing, Formula One training. There is no public television in the world that carries car racing and training. There is no such thing as Croatian public television. Why do I wonder? Those appointed must no longer be allowed to do so, and the change must be spotless on this matter. I can't get ahead of myself and it'll be the only one in the wrong. That's inadmissible. But there's also praise. I always use the opportunity to praise the consumer code. It is an example show that is both visible and hearing, interesting, professional and serves to protect consumers and is even educational. It is so interesting and good socially desirable as opposed to a variety of shows where one main character keeps visiting guests, so he gets tired of both guests and TV and us and himself. The second show invents various competitions between rurals and urbans under the control of the state. It's just unsightly. But it's not a public television space. Croatian radio has positive and negative examples, but essentially very positive examples. Croatian worked with pleasure, especially the second program I listen to. It's an example of professional radio and all the honor they've given him, but of course there are some small and small gaps. Guests on public television are a special story. And from whom we made media instant stars, it's terrifying. Who is all the guests and in what name, by which criteria, it is inadmissible. For more than a week, various managers and employers are visiting on public television than in a year on British public television and dominate and actually to be simple in terms of the salty mind of all Croatia. Let them stop calling them and let them stop and they salt their brains. Let them run their companies, not be told that you would be a good prime minister or that you would be a good minister. Well, let it go to the election, so let the minister be free but not in that way. There's a lot of untruth on TV. It's inadmissible on public television. Croatian Radio, HTV must be a treasurer of truth, a treasurer of indisputable and undeniable facts. And when Aristotle said he loved Plato more, but he loved the truth more, and I love HTV, but more than HTV the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64691	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. First of all, distinguished colleague Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64692	I think that when we discuss the Law on Croatian Television, it may not be correct to discuss a particular show, which was in the first minute, who appeared in the second and so. Everyone here would think that every day we have to be in the first minute, and that's not a topic at all. And such debates are not fruitful, nor do they lead to anything. However, while we are discussing in one way or another, more or less successfully interestingly about the Law on Croatian Television, at this point the 20-year show of the business club, which was successfully managed by Đuro Tomljanović, which brought those topics closer, speaking from scientific and, in a popular way, educationally first of all, has joined and important for Croatia's life, are topics of national interest, and whether mirror or mirror will be said, and that is important. These economic topics are of interest, the national interest of Croatia, especially in these difficult economic moments. That's basic, that's the first problem, the second problem is that our science program is now shrinking by 50%, that's our truth that we need to talk about. And I wouldn't say that it's true, that there's competition by HDZ and Croatian broadcasters in one competition. So let's remember, that's what our colleague Stazic was talking about until 2000 when he... All the industry in Croatia, the then ruling class, i.e. the ruling HDZ, remained the only industry in which they were then turned Croatian broadcasting into their only heavy industry. [[You don't understand.]] These processes have been stopped, i.e. restored to one healthy leg in 2000 and are now in our best interests, we are in our best interests. Just calm down. You're not gonna... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64693	Thank you. Let's not be here in the last few minutes before the weather forecast, if the diary were already around, creating a storm. Replication response, colleague Maric. Comrade Bagaric, you have a plate, come in. My colleague Maric has a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64694	Thank you very much. My colleague Anticevic is calling me incorrect, and you say it's not correct to talk about individual shows, about individual cases, and then you're talking about a particular case, and you're quoting this show as a business club. It is true that emissions are introduced and abolished without systematic analysis, and that is inadmissible. Every show before the launch should pass a professional analysis, an analysis of the public interest, and only then see it go or not. It's the same when it comes to abolishing. The show cannot be shut down unless an analysis of the ratings, analysis of the public interest, analysis of professionalism, analysis of the benefits of this show is carried out for society, and whether someone will sell their book via this show, or whether someone will host the show. And I think it will change a lot because, and I thank you for accepting my observation that representatives of the Croatian Association of Employers and Trade Unions are removed from the programme council, because this will certainly change the programming content, which will benefit the nation more than individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64695	Thank you very much. A colleague of Zdenka Chuhnil answered the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64696	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to replicate my colleague Marić in part, namely to say that I agree with what he said that not once happened that with a certain comment goes pictures of the Parliament three, four days old, not to say something more, even from the previous mandates, and perhaps we ourselves are to blame. In their experience in Canada, they passed the law that television does not have the right to record the assembly. She has to film speakers, chairing the table, the one who talks, because she says the public doesn't care who she is or isn't, or should not be interested in the assembly, but really who's talking, how much she talks and what she says. Therefore, it never occurred to anyone to say that Canada is undemocratic, that it limits freedom of speech. With them always and exclusively television when there are speakers in Parliament. I have also highlighted this because the role of television is, above all, information, education, education, not scheme and policymaking. So maybe we should have come from that, too, if we could do this worldly, or democratic countries with a hundred years of democracy, why couldn't we, because really our televisions are the most important, because someone here is sitting or not sitting down, whether it's going to fall off a bike or not, but he could have spoken and said, "I don't know what, it wouldn't have been commented."
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64697	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64698	Comrade Chuhnil, I was just thinking, I was just about to say that they all noted that you had a bicycle accident. And not why, and not explaining, it's just that you're on the ground with a bike. And much more important things, which is irrelevant to society at all, there's no room on television. So, for example, just to back up this part of your replica, the IMF delegation meeting, IMF delegations with the Committee on Finance and Budget are late on, Croatian Radio Television is late for the meeting, and has entered after the start of the meeting. Afterwards, she misinformed the meeting. When the 60-year anniversary of the closure of Auschwitz in Krakow, on the "Dnevnik" of Croatian television was a report on the anniversary, where they showed that they were all guests from various countries, from Austria, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Russia, only they did not say they were representatives of the Croatian Parliament, and they had a report on it. I don't know how to explain it. It's just inexplicable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64699	And my colleague Glavak, also a replica. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64700	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will agree with you and I will say that I believe that HRT is a significantly abandoned institution, if we can say so, and it seems to me that sometimes when we listen to them, they patented the whining and that's where I agree that the situation is getting out of hand. So sometimes it all comes down to internal war, it comes down to whether someone's gonna run a show, get a suit fee, have a free haircut or make-up, and if someone's gonna have a free official car. I will return to what has already been said here, and that is how many people are employed for the same contribution done on public television, or later on, and how many people can do very professionally this same job on commercial television. These are issues that should be equally addressed on HRT. I agree that public media space is a valuable resource, but HRT is not just an information programme, although we talk about the information programme most often because our work actually always belongs to the information program and perhaps the most we find. HRT is a culture, HRT is an educational programme, HRT is a sports programme. And so that's what will define the public interest, so all that and that's what's going to be defined by the contract. Priorities of definition of public interest sometimes amaze us, so the order of agreement of public interest in the central information show of Croatian television, which is the journal most talked about, may be one of the reasons why Dnevnik no longer has such a rating as he used to have and what may no longer be said what was once said – if you were not in the central journal as if it had not happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64701	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, colleague Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64702	My colleague Glavak agrees with you that the potential of employees is huge on HTV, but the selection is wrong, I would actually say negative. There are so many professional, educated, top-notch employees and experts on HTV that it's a skill to choose the wrong one, it's a skill to choose an incompetent one because there are too many. But the problem is that there you are able to suffer, most of the capable, professional and professional suffer from well-paid workers. That's the problem. And the problem is also the show... I've never seen a show on public television that's going to promote something positive, like business morality promotes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Promote fundamental values of society, national and strategic interests. So I wonder, then no wonder why a representative of the Catholic Church stepped out of the Programme Council a few years ago and no longer wanted to take part in it. Because there are no shows that are turned to that, and they are hosted on the show on the diary or in the Open that end tomorrow morning in Remitinc. That's inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64703	Thank you very much. My colleague Lek's gone, so we've exhausted all the applications for an individual hearing. In conclusion, on behalf of the promoter, Mr Bozo Biskupic, the Honorable Minister. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64704	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A few sentences ago, I'd just like to say that since there was a word here, to explain some things, there was a word here that there was no advertising on specialized programs. Namely, these programs allow sponsorship and the placement of products without restrictions, and I hope that will be enough so that, on the first and second programs there are enough ads, so by quoting a quote from Representative Roshin that it is not the role of public television that the program fills the space among commercials we think it is right that specialized programs do not have these ads. It was also said that we were listening too much to the EU. It is not true, we were only taking what was actually the achievement of Europe's top democratic standards. And that's logical, I think that was to be expected and that it was in some way and determined and commended for what we did in this way. Secondly, it was about percentages of how much of the Croatian programme should be. The European Commission has requested that article 10 of the old law, meaning a law that is so far valid, be brought into line with directives and audiovisual media services and the Law on Electronic Media. This means, and we have put into the law that at least 50% must be European works, of which at least 40% of Croatian works are broadcast in the original Croatian language. This least means there could be more. It can't be just under there. Therefore, Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, and during the debate in this House, a number of views and opinions have been made on the text of the final draft law, as well as amendments which we will carefully consider and accept all those who are actually improving the text of the law. We thank the representatives, committees and clubs of the parties in the Croatian Parliament who contributed to improving the text of the law. During the process of drafting this law, many of the experts I thank have also contributed to, and especially to the members of the Working Group for the Construction of Croatian Law, colleagues from the Ministry of Culture who prepared the text of the law and colleagues from the Competition Protection Agency who made a significant contribution to ensure that part of the law relating to state aid and competition is consistent with the acquis. I thank all those who delivered their opinion to the ministry during the public debate on the text of the law in order to improve its provisions to citizens, individuals and citizens' associations. I also thank all who organized round tables on the subject of this law, especially Croatian news society, professional associations in the field of media, professional associations in the field of culture, representatives of the academic community, Croatian Association of Radio and News, National Association of Television, Croatian Association of Producers and Croatian Association of Independent Television Producers. We are convinced that this law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is a major improvement in the media legislation of the Republic of Croatia. But yet, honourable ladies and gentlemen, you are all aware of the law of the people, and now perhaps if you let me quote the frequent sayings of the MPs of the Capricorn say, "Give us God's happiness with the choice of these people."
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64705	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister thanked everyone who participated in this, so here I am thanking him on our behalf, because he is one of the few who, from the beginning of the debate to the end, endures with his associates, so let this be an example of concern for the adoption of the law, and I believe that such concern will also be in his conduct. That's what I'd like to conclude this point with. We'll vote when the usual conditions are met, and I believe that the conditions for it will be tomorrow at 12 because the vote is announced tomorrow at 12. We'll start normally at 9.30, and on the agenda will be the next point, it's prepared, and this is the Final Proposal for the Law on the right to access information. Have a nice evening, all of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64706	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Croatian Radio Television, that's the second reading, P.Z.E. No. 586, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The review of the amendment is divided into benches. I ask the applicant's representative to make a statement on the amendments submitted. The vote on amendments which the proposings do not accept, etc. That's what we'll discuss and vote on. First, here is Mr. Culture Minister Bozo Bishop. Declaration on the 1st Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club to Article 2
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64707	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64708	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 2. of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, as referred to in Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64709	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64710	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 3. HDZ Representatives' Club on Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64711	It is accepted that the words "promise national interests" shall be added in the first subparagraph of paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64712	He accepted the president of the MPs' club in the text as read by Mr. Minister. 4, Amendment of Representative Dragutin Lesar to Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64713	It is not accepted because Article 8 is detailed in the application of the Croatian language in all HRT programmes as an exception to that application, especially when it comes to programmes intended for national minorities, foreign tourists and others. It is therefore not necessary to further regulate this issue, given that this issue is detailed and Article 4. The laws on electronic media, Croatian language and Latin letter and translation into Croatian should already be implemented consistently.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64714	Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64715	Mr Minister, Article 8 of the Law lists but indeed all the more significant parts in which the use of the Croatian language is necessary. I believe that the marketing or propaganda programme is also part of the broadcasting programme in which we should equally take care of the preservation of Croatian as far as is not stated, in practice it is the worst part of the programme. I am sorry that you did not accept this amendment for purely formal reasons because you claim that everything is already perfectly regulated. Practice shows I'm right, not you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64716	Thank you. We'll vote by raising our hands on the amendments. Please, who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5. Amendment also to the representative of Dragutin Lesar on Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64717	It's unacceptable. HRT is intended to report to citizens all issues of public interest, political, economic, social, health, cultural, educational, scientific, religious, ecological, sports and other events and phenomena in the country and abroad, including, of course, reporting on such issues when they are discussed in the Croatian Parliament and in the central authorities of the state administration. In this context, HRT will report on all major issues discussed in the Croatian Parliament and the central authorities of the state administration as well as so far. The current law does not oblige HRT to report regularly on issues discussed before the Croatian Parliament and the central authorities of the state administration, so HRT does so regularly when it comes to issues of public interest. In addition, the meetings of the Croatian Parliament are transmitted via the Parliamentary Cable Television, and given the digitisation and free capacity for private television channels within digital multiples will be able to provide a digital frequency if that is why there is interest. For these reasons, this issue does not need to be regulated in the proposed way.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64718	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64719	Mr. Minister, there's obviously been a misunderstanding. I did not propose an amendment in which it would say that HTV must carry the meetings of the Croatian Parliament but monitor and report. That's the first one. Secondly, if Article 9 lists 28 significant areas that Croatia must monitor, then I consider that the 29th legislative and executive authority, state bodies and institutions with public authority. So I just wanted to clarify, specify and add something more important to me than what is listed in the current article 9 as a society of beekeepers and other associations of citizens. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64720	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move to the sixth amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities to Article 9(2).
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64721	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64722	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendment 7 of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Article 9(2), indent 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64723	It is not accepted because the amendment under the number 8 sentence, lacks the expression of Croatian law and language here. Therefore, the amendment is accepted for this reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64724	This amendment number seven has been withdrawn. The eighth amendment of Ms Ljubice Lukačić's representative to the article... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64725	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64726	Sustained?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64727	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64728	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Ninth Amendment of Representative Dragutin Lesar to Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64729	It's unacceptable. Programmes governing the issue of consumer and patient protection in the context of violations of their rights in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia are already covered by the provisions of Article 9 of the final draft law. Article 9(2) of the final proposal provides that HRT will, in particular, produce, co-produce and publish programmes intended to improve the rule of law and the social state, and programmes of national interest intended to prevent criminality of socially unacceptable and risky behaviour, and promote security in the community. Furthermore, Article 9(2) of subparagraphs 1 and 9 provides for information to the public on health events and occurrences in the country and abroad, as well as information and education on human health protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64730	Thank you. Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64731	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for showing off. I did not find the words "user" and "patient" three times reading article 9. You claim that these sausage sentences are understood. I'm sure, after these changes, the areas of emissions that would be specialized in protecting consumer rights and patients' rights will slowly disappear from the programme. And that's why Article 9 is nowhere. Social rights and consumer rights, and health events and patient rights are really not the same in my court. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64732	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move to 10 amendments of the Committee on Information, Information and Media to Article 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64733	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64734	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 11 of the Committee on Information, Information and Media in Article 19(9)
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64735	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64736	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 12 SDSS representatives' clubs in Article 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64737	It's unacceptable. The proposed amendment does not comply with Article 24(1). The press law which prescribes that, before the appointment or resolution of the editor-in-chief, the editor-in-chief must provide an opinion of the editorial if the Statute is not otherwise specified. Therefore, the law does not provide for a binding opinion of journalists and other creative staff, but the issue can be settled through the Statute of the HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64738	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64739	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. The SDSS representative club, as I said in my speech before this House, believes it is necessary to strengthen the role of journalists, editors in the decision-making of those who will perform editorial duties whether it is the editor-in-chief, whether it is other editors. The Assembly and the Government have the power to appoint the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council, and through them they reserve the right to influence both the editor and the editor. And the opinion of the press is considered only an advisory opinion. We think it's not good for a journalistic profession, we don't think it's good for professional ethics in journalism, and we think this amendment should have been accepted in this or some other form. Because we know very well that in the last 20 years we have a problem with the political influence on the media and the influence of those who own the media and that we have not fought enough for what is called autonomy in the field of journalistic profession. And for this reason, the minimum could have been or should have been to leave room for it, to have the opinion of the editors, so those with whom the editor will work, not who will choose him, but those who have their own view of it, of professional and other criteria that this opinion has a slightly higher rank than the law provides. And there was a chance we could do it. For this reason, the SDSS Club is asking to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64740	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Please hold, I don't think he's got the necessary majority. But please count it. He didn't get the necessary majority of 38 MPs. 13 amendments to the same Club of Representatives of the SDSS to Article 21(2).
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64741	It's unacceptable. The proposed amendment does not comply with Article 24(1). A media law which does not prescribe that the publisher, before the appointment or resolution of the editors of a specific programme, would be obliged to obtain the opinion of the editorial office, in particular, not binding opinion. Therefore, the law does not provide for a binding opinion of journalists and other creative staff to elect editors of a specific programme, but the issue can be settled through the Statute of the HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64742	Thank you. Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64743	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. For the same reason that we advocated in the previous amendment, we advocate this, and now with the fact that in the process of negotiating between HDZ and SDP, there has been a change in position and that instead of 6 minutes for the public media for Croatia, the radiotelevision is going down to 4 minutes and zero minutes in two specialized programmes, we believe that the adoption of this type of solution is the best way for Croatia's radiotelevision as a public medium to actually lead towards its phase-out and that Croatia's broadcasting by getting 8 minutes from 4 programs and the commercial TV for 2 programmes is given 4 minutes in an unequal position on the market and for this reason we think that the adoption of such a legal solution is contrary to the interest of the public media. And I really don't understand if the logic is first shipyards, so INA, so Croatian Radio Television where we will stop. Is that what we're gonna do with the flag? I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64744	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to 14 amendments of the Committee on Information, Information and Media to Article 22.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64745	It is accepted that in the new paragraph of the third paragraph, the word "supervisory board" is added: "HRT", the Croatian Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64746	The chairman of the board accepts the minister's statement? Thank you. So this amendment has been accepted with this supplement. 15th Amendment of the Committee on Information, Information and Media to Article 25(5)
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64747	It shall be accepted that, in paragraph 5, the last day of the deadline shall be replaced by the words within the prescribed time limit, and that time limit shall be 15 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64748	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64749	It's acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64750	He's a representative of the board. It's also accepted this, uh, little addition from Mr. Secretary. So we move on to the 16th Amendment of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, to Article 25(8).
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64751	It is not accepted, because the amendment, the 15th amendment, has been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64752	Given that there has been a change in Article 25, meanwhile, because the government has proposed it and, on the basis of this, changed the way the members of the programme council were elected, which we wanted to influence, then I am withdrawing the amendment accordingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64753	This amendment has been withdrawn. 17th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club to Article 37
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64754	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64755	What? ... This amendment has been withdrawn. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Amendment 18 to the Committee on Information, Information and Media. What? ... You want to give an explanation? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you are, with regard to the 17th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64756	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I am withdrawing this amendment for the next reason. With the SDP club we agreed to support 16 minutes of continuity in prime time, 6 minutes instead of 4 in continuity for HRT, in order to achieve the greatest consensus in the vote of this important law, which was both the message and the domestic... Publicly, however, the SDP club gave up on six minutes and took four minutes, so we agree on it to be a consensus and we suggest that the amendment be withdrawn and remains as 6 minutes the first year, and 4 the second and third. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64757	That means the withdrawn amendment, right? This amendment has been withdrawn with this explanation. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64758	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64759	Thank you. Here you go, committee representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64760	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64761	He was accepted in the statement of the minister. 19th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club to Article 45(3)
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64762	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64763	This amendment has been accepted, becoming an integral part of the bill. 20th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives, to Article 47
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64764	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64765	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 21st Amendment of Article 48 of the Legislative Committee
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64766	The 21st is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64767	Thank you very much. It also becomes an integral part of the bill. 22. The information, information and media committee referred to in Article 50(1).
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64768	It is not accepted, because there is no special justification that the general specialized TV channels of HRT are positioned in the first multiplex, and given that the current channels of all publishers at national level are positioned in the first multiplex. In addition, HRT has not defined, nor launched specialized television channels, which could be positioned in the first multiplex, i.e. multiplex... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64769	Thank you. Representative of the board, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64770	Your Honor, this refusal of this amendment is a surprise. First of all, because there is a national digitisation strategy, and there is a special government decision, which says the solution will be exactly like this, i.e. that national television will be enabled to broadcast in multiplex A. This amendment of the Committee on Information, Information and Media is in line with such a strategy of the Government. Your refusal means opposition to the strategy that your government has just adopted, and this House adopted. It is also contrary to the government's decision, the government's special decision, that multiplex A will broadcast national television programmes, and in addition it is part of the agreement between HDZ and SDP in the protection of public television, in its better positioning when these two additional channels appear. Croatian broadcasters are ready to start broadcasting specialized channels, and therefore we are asking for a vote on this, especially since it is a harmonised amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64771	Thank you. So we're voting on the amendment. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. 23rd Amendment of the Committee on Information, Information and Media to Article 51(1)
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64772	It is not accepted due to the need to make an early publication of a public call for the appointment of the HRT programme council, and the same taking into account, of course, the situation on HRT. We think it takes in those eight days, of course, to make a public call that is enough time to appoint.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64773	Mr. Trazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64774	The purpose of this amendment is to enable a reasonable deadline, the law is passed here before the end of the session, if all preparations fail, we will enter into the constitutional break, let one call of the Media Committee fail, and you are putting us in a position to break the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64775	You need to talk a little harder, 'cause you can't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64776	Of course, the Media Committee will make every effort to carry out its tasks as short as possible under this law, but we have made this amendment a reason for the letter of the law and the inability to do so within 8 days to bring us into breach of the law. The amendment was also in line with the HDZ Representatives' Club. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64777	Who is for this amendment, which the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 24 of the Committee on Information, Information and Media to Article 52
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64778	It is not accepted, too, because of the need for haste to initiate the procedure for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board. The same with regard to today's situation on HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64779	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64780	For the same reasons I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64781	Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 25th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club to Article 57
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64782	It's not accepted because of the fact that it isn't either. Yeah. You're pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64783	What? ... Mr. Hebrang, on behalf of the club, has withdrawn this amendment. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I of the 26th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 59
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64784	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-02-0.u64785	This amendment becomes an integral part of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the final proposal for a law on Croatian broadcasting. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This Final Proposal for a Law on Croatian Radio Television was adopted by the majority of 88 votes in favour, 7 abstentions and 4 against, together with the amendments adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, I announce that we will be eight. 12th Wednesday at 9:30 p.m. continue working on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan. I wish you all a pleasant weekend and a return Wednesday. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the 20th session with agenda - Final proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the right to access information, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 570. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal by mail. When adopting this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply, amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. The amendments are the floor of the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Does the proposaler's representative want to explain? Yeah. Edmond Miletic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration, please.
