ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u47977	Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. In front of you, the Act on Tourism and Other Building Land is unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation, so we are in the second reading. What we have already said in our first reading, I would briefly repeat, an extremely important law, this law regulates the holder of ownership, so almost 100 million square meters of land of tourist and other construction that has not been evaluated, and therefore has not entered the basic capital in the process of conversion and privatisation. I don't have to talk about what kind of capital this is, I don't have to talk about the importance of regulating the title of ownership on this property. When we regulate the holder of ownership, then we will have a much clearer picture in practice, we will have the possibility that companies can manage their land, that they can invest, that they can take on what they bring in as their own property, that in land books and other registers they can sign up as their own property, they will be able to take on that property all the actions they need for any investment, from the establishment of fiduciary property, the establishment of mortgages on such land, and that's what we want with this law. The basic principles of the first reading of the law were not really changed. We share the tourist land on that land in the camps, and we share on that land on which hotels and other tourist buildings were built. As far as ownership relations are concerned, the bill is that the land that has not been assessed and has not entered the core capital, and is located in spatial documents and in nature as a camp, this land would become the property of the Republic of Croatia. If part of that land was assessed in the underlying capital, the co-ownership community would be established in the part in which it was assessed and entered into the underlying capital, it would be in co-ownership in commercial societies and the other part of the co-ownership relationship of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal is a law so that the co-ownership community can be shared in a way that the Republic of Croatia pays the company for its part, and vice versa if the co-ownership ratio is set so that more than 50% has a company. Therefore, the proposal is a law so that it could be vice versa, so that the company could pay the Republic of Croatia back. As far as all that land is concerned about the Republic of Croatia, our goal and our interest is therefore not to complicate the management and business of the entire area, but rather to opt for a variant of the direct concession, so the company on that co-ownership part could request a concession from the Republic of Croatia and thus have the entire area of management, of course, under the conditions provided for by law. As for the land on which the hotels were built, so the apartments, there would be a property relationship, so I say legally, that all those hotels and those buildings that entered the core capital, which were evaluated, would become the property of a company, and the remaining unrated land would be owned by a unit of local self-government. Of course, this law allows companies to form land-marked particles in order to register their property over these buildings, over these hotels, and here we have said that units are local self-government, that they will sell the land needed for the regular use of these buildings and these objects that have entered the basic capital that have been assessed and which are in the underlying capital. In this way, we will get one real estate that will have its owner's property, and all the other space we said, since it's a tourist plot that units of local self-government can't sell that property, but they can give it in a concession, and primarily in that concession, based on the demands of these companies, they have a certain priority and they have a certain advantage, because we want these land to be managed in a good and quality way and we want to enable them to therefore develop their activity. As for the rest of the building land which is not assessed in the underlying capital, this remaining building land is therefore based on the ownership of the Republic of Croatia and also with possible all of these options that we have listed here. If the part is assessed, then that part that has been assessed and entered into the underlying capital, then that part becomes the co-ownership of the company. We think this is a good concept, we think this is a good foundation, but compared to first reading, we have accepted certain remarks that have been highlighted on committees. I think we have improved the text, I think we have made the text much more acceptable, we have shortened what is important, those deadlines that we had in our first reading, where we have given a period of 6 months to adopt all those regulations that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should therefore adopt so that the law is applicable, so that we can apply it in practice and apply it. Now we're reducing this new proposal to three months. I must say right here that we have been through all these parliamentary committees and on the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Legislatives we have received support, the Committee on Local Self-Government we have received support. The Committee on Tourism and the Committee on Spatial Planning has proposed that the law goes into third reading, in order to discuss some other issues that have remained open in some way, primarily on the Committee on Tourism, certain associations have appeared with which I have to say that we had no contact in writing the bill, and we are willing to accept and accept the proposal of these committees that the law goes into third reading where we would have actually heard the thoughts and associations and campers and hotelers and, finally, to come back here again in a very short time, I think with a perfectly clear law and in which we will address all the doubts. According to us, what's in the second reading is a highly sustainable concept, and I believe that we are here as soon as possible in the third reading and that by the third reading, we will remove all the open questions that have emerged on the board. From whether to actually formulate for the formation of a new particle and the establishment of ownership rights, whether to formulate that local self-government will sell the land needed for regular use or that is for functional use which raises doubts on the Committee on Spatial Planning. Or we will precisely regulate what it is for regular use because this law said that the provisions of the Spatial Planning Act apply to that part. Here, thank you very much. We'll consider all the comments of course, and we'll see for the third reading. I believe that we are very, very fast, because the basic principles for me are sustainable and I don't see that we should change them any further, but in the third reading we will also have these further doubts that are set aside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u47978	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? On behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, Mr. Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u47979	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the 28th session held on 3 February 2010, the Final Proposal of the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land, unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation, was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Act of 7 January 2010. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction under Art. 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the final draft law as an interested working body. At the same time, the Commission notes that the proposed law lays down the notion of tourism and other construction land which has not been assessed and entered into the company's core capital in the process of conversion, i.e. privatisation and regulates property-legal relations on that land and the way it is used and concessions. At the same time, a brief review of the difference between the solutions attached to this final proposal is given in relation to the solution set out in the draft law, with an emphasis on the observations and proposals made by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, which was included in the text of the final draft law. In the discussion on the board, it was found that this problem is strategically important for further development of Croatian tourism, the opening of investment opportunities, as well as for effective space management and preservation of natural and cultural tourism potential. It has been warned that the importance of this topic calls for the indemnity of the provisions, and the course of the debate has pointed to the existence of a series of open issues. The comments of the Croatian Employers' Association in the Hotelry have been highlighted and the question has been raised about the involvement of units of local and regional regional self-government in the drafting of this law and the consensus reached on the solutions proposed by the final draft law. It is stated that, for the proper impact assessment of the application of the provisions of this law, it is essential to make a full analysis of the situation, which would include data which, given the work cycle, is available to the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Since those laws regulate property-legal relations on that land, the opinion has been expressed that, in the very name of the law, this should be clearly indicated. From the point of view of the management of the premises, it has been warned that the non-acceptability of the provisions governing the problem of co-ownership of the Republic of Croatia and of the commercial society for tourist land, i.e. building camps. Given the fact that tourist land is good, the more acceptable solution was to buy a co-ownership part of the company by the Republic of Croatia, where the company would have the priority of applying for a concession. In connection with the award of concessions for the use of campsites on tourist land which is naturally forest land is indicated in art. 17. The Law on the Forests, as shown in "The People's News" No. 140/5, 82/2006 and 129/2008 which are regulated to the forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia by "Croatian forests d.o.o." In the case of an approved concession, a concessionary company would manage this land, which would ultimately be from the point of view of the "Croatian Forests d.o.o." It also raises the question of the share of the concession fee in the manner proposed by the Article. The 15th. It is important for the implementation of this law of space protection and the creation of a prerequisite for the quality of the work of tourist facilities to be evaluated in an unequivocal definition of the land used for regular use of hotels or other facilities in a tourist resort. The question of the treatment of parking spaces from the facilities of dislocated gas cells, air conditioning stations, etc. is once again highlighted, and the importance of more detailed regulation of this law. An additional interpretation of the land definition needed for regular use is requested from the applicant if the hotel plans to make changes in order to increase standards. The acceptability of use of the term is discussed functionally instead of regular use, i.e. the fact that regular use is precisely understood and the importance of clearly defining criteria and conditions, which would allow hotelers to function in buildings, develop a modern innovative tourist offer, and, on the other hand, prevent possible abuses and speculative business of selling tourist land. The debate was also about the issue of treatment of tourist facilities located within the borders of maritime goods. The importance of establishing the maritime goods and property records within the maritime goods borders as such in the cataster and land books has been warned. It is pointed to the existence of many property-legal conflicts and difficulties available to real estate on the maritime good. This issue is particularly noteworthy in the context of a new Law on the Sea Good. A clarification has also been requested to the extent that the implementation of this law can result in the construction of beaches and the reduction of public access to maritime goods. The importance of the establishment of the Tourism and Creating Fund is highlighted by all preconditions that the funds for concession and sale of land in the part in which they belong are paid into a special account and used exclusively for the purpose of the development of tourist infrastructure and the preservation of the tourist resource base. By assessing that the proposed provisions leave room for different interpretations which could result in inconsistencies in the implementation of the Committee, the Committee has proposed to the applicant that, in cooperation with all interested entities, respecting the observations, proposals and opinions made by the final draft law to be held in the third reading. The role of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction in the definition of land used for the regular use of tourist facilities is particularly highlighted. After the discussion was held, the committee unanimously, 12 votes in favour, decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the next conclusion on the final proposal of the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land, unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation, will be conducted third reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u47980	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Tourism, Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u47981	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. At its 6th session, held on 3 February 2010, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Final Proposal of the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land, which was not evaluated in the process of conversion and privatisation, which was delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by its act of 7 January 2010. The tourism committee discussed the final proposal in question of the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land, which was not assessed in the process of conversion and privatisation under Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. On behalf of the applicant's representative on the opening presentation, the Final Proposal for the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land, which was not evaluated in the process of conversion and privatisation, was submitted by Mr Drazen Bošnjaković, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, and informed the present members of the Committee and... the law to go to third reading. All who wish to achieve the reference of the law to the third reading of a primarily constructive character in order to respect the opinions, proposals, suggestions, suggestions of all interested associations, also clarify all the concerns that exist in the law, with the ultimate aim of identifying the titleholders of ownership which is the necessary premise of Croatia's development. Mr Drazen Bošnjaković, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, explained the short differences between the solutions proposed by the final proposal for the law in relation to the draft law, and stated that the applicant had partially accepted the proposal of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the reduction of time limits for the adoption of implementing acts and provided for a period of 3 months compared to the originally proposed 6 months in Article 36. They consider it appropriate with regard to the scope of the area and taking into account the rights and interests of all those involved in relations. However, no proposal from the Tourism Committee on the way of granting concessions has been accepted, so one third belongs to the Republic of Croatia, one third to the municipalities or to the city and one third to the regional self-government in which the land is located, as well as the issue of regularity of defining the period of 2 years in Article 29. In view of the very complex procedures which require great engagement, both the law enforcement body itself and the competent administrative authority responsible for providing relevant information, it is considered that it is very complex. The following proposals, opinions and suggestions are presented in the debate. That the Ministry of Tourism is directly involved in the development of a final bill, that the Ministry of Justice organises meetings with representatives of the Croatian Association of Employers in Hotelry, Camping of the Croatian Association, representatives of local and regional self-government and other interested parties and associations to discuss all constructive remarks and different opinions on the draft law. That the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land must necessarily be coordinated with the Law on Maritime Goods, that the establishment of titleholders of ownership is necessary for further development of domestic tourism, in order to lay down more clearly the criteria and principles of determining the level and method of award of concession. On the basis of the debate held, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided, support is that the Final Proposal for a Law on Tourism and Other Building Land, unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation, goes into third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u47982	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Justice, Ms. Representative and President of the Committee, Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u47983	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the 40th session held on 26 January 2010, the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Tourism and Other Building Land, unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 7 January 2010. The Committee discussed the draft law as a parent working body. In the opening statement, the applicant explained that the differences between the solutions proposed by the final proposal in relation to the solutions set out in the draft law. It stressed that the final proposal regulates which land is considered to be tourist and unrated building land, determines the holder of ownership over tourist land, arranges the owners of ownership or co-ownership of land and buildings, arranges the award of concessions, arranges the return of the land seized to former owners, the establishment of property holders gives the possibility of investment activities on tourist and construction land. Following the evidence of the applicant's representative on the observations and proposals made by the Committee on Justice on the draft law, the members of the Committee supported the final draft law. The debate called for further indication of the applicant's question whether the purpose of this law is to resolve ownership-legislative relations or to end the process of conversion and privatisation for the sake of improved tourism. The promoter pointed out that by resolving the property-legal status of these properties, it is now possible for tourist entities to invest in real estate as well as the conclusion of legal transactions in relation to the use of real estate. Article 7(3) of the final draft law regulates that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will regulate both the way and the process of assessing the value of the property by a special regulation. In this respect, it is suggested that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should regulate objective criteria for assessing the value of real estate in all administrative and judicial proceedings. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice decided, with 7 votes for and 2 votes against, to propose to the Croatian Parliament, to pass the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u47984	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u47985	Thank you very much. President of the Croatian Parliament, state secretaries with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. So one principle assessment when looking at the fullness of the text of the final proposal of the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation could be qualified like this. The road to hell is often accompanied by good intentions. The result of a 90-year process of transforming and privatising HDZ governments came to collect to the Croatian Parliament with a late 20-year delay. So that's how long this problem lasts in Croatia. And we are going into the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land to resolve without being aware or having a vision of the development of tourism in the Republic of Croatia for at least the next ten years. When we try different things, we try different situations by one law like this, then at the very least as responsible politicians or institutions we should simulate each of these situations what it produces in nature. In other words, the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land implies that we generally talk about tourist land and tourist land that now enters as a legal institute, the legal concept should be regulated by some other acts and other laws. As far as I'm concerned, my memory in Croatia has been decided that urban plans and spatial plans determine what it is, which is the purpose of the land. We will now apply the general position in the interest of the owner to a different situation in nature from conversion and privatisation, and by law we will determine the owner without condition what is necessary for the economic, tourist entity to have in nature the activities and development and activities of that economic operator. In fact, we have a situation that the tourism company in conversion and privatisation has received a solution in which the land as its basic capital and the solution of the Privatisation Fund has been paid and entered into conversion and privatisation, with the whole building particle with the necessary standards in urbanism and construction. Then we have a case that the land was only in the floor, so only under the structure entered into a converted solution, a solution obtained from the Privatisation Fund paid and the rest was unsettled and it was all used by the company all these years. We have a situation that nothing from the land has gone into conversion and privatisation, and it should be dealt with now. And we have a fourth situation that has entered a new plot with the necessary building particle and in conversion and privatisation has entered the privatisation and the adopted solution and paid one part of the building plot has remained outside. And we have cases still with camps, very different. We are now trying to resolve this law to which the property belongs. This is, of course, a welcome solution, but the state's interest is to develop, encourage development and provide opportunities for the development of any activity. From this law it is not possible, this law cannot achieve it in our opinion. Therefore, it is necessary to decide on the definition of what is a tourist land within the meaning of the Law on Urbanism and Spatial Editing, it is necessary to decide what is needed for an economic operator to form a new particle which must be bought because it must have a particle that will enable economic activity. And it should be decided how to regulate in the camps the interest of the Republic of Croatia for the development of tourism of that form. Without that, and really this final bill of law has not been settled, I don't think we can even think about voting on this law. If this were to happen, the SDP club will not support the adoption of this law, it will not vote in favour. If a proposal for working bodies is accepted and the law is referred to a third reading in order to resolve the question of definition of what is building land, what is required for normal management in a tourist subject whether it is a hotel or a catering facility, or it is a camp. And the question is compensation and the concession after that will be much easier to resolve. Namely, if we look at things as provided for in Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to be about land or property which have a special interest in the Republic of Croatia then this special interest and must be highlighted in this law because it is indeed a special interest in the development of tourism. The development of tourism is of particular interest and if it is a fee for a reduced value to the owner or owner, then it must be provided by law for how the fee is determined. In fact, there is no point in establishing in the law and the Constitution to establish that it is objects and properties of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia and that this is not seen from the law, which is not really seen. So, I think that in the end, it should really be said that tourist and catering activity requires and a unique way of determining the legal status of the country, as well as identifying the idea of what tourism land is for the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, so it is necessary to draw goals in the tourism economy and then to see what compensation to be determined and how it is distributed for the use of this tourist land. Our proposal is that land of several million square meters requires our greater attention, simulating models for each form that has come out of privatisation according to urban standards and spatial arrangements, so the law has to provide for the development of every form of tourism, from the campsite to the hotel and the catering facility and with such a law to come into the third reading so that we can really be responsible for the problem which is 20 years old and which came from our concept of conversion and privatisation, solve in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, and not in the interest of any individuals, any groups. So continue with the type of privatisation from the '90s, it would not forgive us generations to come, especially in such an attractive area and such significant activity as the activity of tourism in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u47986	Thank you. We have one correction. Mrs. Dubravka Shuica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u47987	So I would correct the incorrect allegations, several incorrect allegations by my colleague Lek, who said it was not visible from the law that the law is in a special national Republic of Croatia which is definitely not true. On the contrary, this law says it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and when it says a special issue of camps is being resolved in a way that the land will become the property of the Republic of Croatia. However, it may even go too far in that direction that it is in the national interest, not in the interest of local administrations and self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u47988	Thank you. Let's move on. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u47989	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. Here I would say at first that this law, or the proposal for a law on tourism and other construction land, which was not assessed in the process of conversion and privatisation, should be regarded primarily as a law that addresses ownership-legal relations on these mentioned properties which remain unresolved after the conversion, and that the result of the resolution of these ownership-legal relations is then also to enable investment swings on these tourist complexes and the development of tourism. The issue of outstanding ownership-legal status of land which has not been assessed in the underlying capital during the conversion dates back to the time of the adoption of the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises and the Law on Privatisation. Namely, the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises from '91. In the year, a way of converting social resources into funds with a well-known holder of ownership was established, so that the difference between active and passive enterprises seemed to be social capital, and all the land for which the right of use, management and availability of the former social enterprise could be demonstrated. This law should create assumptions for the implementation of the Privatisation Act and leave economic operators to the market or private capital, except where the State has assessed that there is a public interest in keeping certain entities, parts of them, things or rights in its possession. In the privatisation of social enterprises in the catering and tourist and hotel activities, this is exactly what happened, real estate, land, mostly outside of technology, as it was determined by the solutions on conversion, but sometimes within it was left out of the assessment of the value of social capital following the conclusion of the Ministry of Tourism and in accordance with the strategy for the development of Croatian tourism which established the policy of managing tourism space to be based on the principle that the building land in social property is not sold but that it is exclusively used by giving concessions. Of course, he asked the Croatian government to ensure proper legislation. In addition, in the conversion procedures, it also took place in tourist and other areas, either by negligence or by intention, that certain properties were excluded from the core capital assessment in order to reduce the value of those companies that went into conversion. After that, three laws were passed containing provisions on the resolution of the issues of unrated real estate, things and rights in conversion. These are the Privatisation Act, the Property Act and other real rights, the Property Compensation Act seized during the Yugoslav Communist Government, but they have in practice failed to resolve this issue until the end because certain provisions are unsettled or codified and there are different applications in practice in the proceedings before courts and administrative bodies. The Privatisation Act said briefly that all unrated items and rights become property of the Privatisation Fund unless there are reasons for renewal and if the transfer does not affect the existing technological unit. This Regulation shall enter The ownership law regulated exemptions from the conversion of management, use and availability rights unless they were entered into the social capital of legal persons. The amendments to this law provide that the legal follow-up of a social undertaking after the completion of the conversion is the owner of only those properties which were, on the date of the assessment of the value of the underlying capital, social property with the right to management, use and availability which could have been the subject of the acquisition of ownership rights and whose value was assessed in the capital of the company and which, according to the competent authority, was shown in the capital of the company. The conversion and denationalisation ratio has also been resolved and it is clearly stated that those properties and those rights for which the right to return to former owners, i.e. the basis of the rules on denationalisation, are exempt from the right to use in the conversion of ownership rights. It is these provisions that provide the basis and justification for the adoption of this law before us today, both in relation to the development of the property establishment process on unrated properties and in relation to the return of real estate to the former owners they were seized during the Yugoslav communist rule. Realising that such a unresolved ownership situation is holding back further development and investment in tourism back in 2000, the Tourism Committee called on the government to resolve and pass a special law to resolve these issues. In 2002, the IDS sent a bill to the government that the coalition government did not accept at the time, but said it had to be resolved. 2004. The Committee on Tourism conducted a thematic session, problems and possible resolution of the property-legal status of tourism land which did not enter into the assessment of the value of the underlying capital in the conversion process. At that session, it was warned that this issue was necessary to resolve it as urgently as possible. So, I'm referring to 2004. Then two double legal positions were expressed. One that says the state's ownership of unrated land should be defined by respecting the general principle of the Property Act, the uniqueness of real estate. Thus, the DORH notes that they began to deal with this problem after the entry into force of the Property Act, after they found that some courts had called for transitional provisions of this law to all the properties which were socially owned by the former social enterprise had registered as the right of ownership of the converted entity and thus had become overly valuable in private, often foreign pockets and that nothing was paid for them. The second point is the legal theoretical position that comes from the academic community as well as some lawyers who represent transformed private companies to be concerned with acquired rights of the converted entity, that there is a universal succession, and that the decision on conversion has the effect of obtaining ownership over the entire activity of the former social enterprise, regardless of whether it has been assessed and paid, and if it is not paid let it be settled as a mandatory and legal relationship. How, in which way, to force anyone to pay more of what they already signed up for, there is no word in the proposal, but possibly to complete the recapitalisation at the prices that were worth the day of the capital assessment. These views do not worry about damages to the state, resulting in injustice that someone acquires enormous goods without paying them anything, and this leads to inequality before the law. This view would further make it exactly the opposite of the commitment of the then and current government to protect the most valuable tourist resources and goods, and that it is, and that they are committed not to be sold but to be used exclusively on the basis of the concession. And there is a symptom that for several years it has been precisely from the circles of those who most say that such an unsettled state harms them further development, that always before making a final decision on this law, individuals from these circles are expressing some new dilemmas, issues, problems. And I can't take the impression, but it's as if the only reason is to delay the adoption of this law. Perhaps the answer to this phenomenon is in the words of a lawyer representing them, which was presented on that round table, which states that the transformed companies of this land consider themselves to have become owners because they invested them, that they master as independent and unfettered owners, that based on the views of some eminent legal theorists, they consider themselves safe in litigations that lead against the state, that they will not voluntarily implement and accept any law, that they believe that the owners, even if they were not registered, even if no one admits that they will defend to the court the last to be taken away from them. At the same time, we all resist and this is good, we are looking for, and through constitutional changes, ways of reviewing conversion, sanctioning illegalities and irregularities, not agreeing to the syntagm "who has pitted, pitted" and in that we agree. So it must not happen that we miss the opportunity right now, that by adopting this law as soon as possible, it is in the sphere of unrated tourist and other building land, to make it happen who was the bad guy that put up the land, and some fools paid for it. So, today's situation is that if we take only land in the camps according to the Croatian Privatisation Fund 22 million square meters, it's worth around 30 billion kuna, I'm not talking about the total land that numbers go up to 100 million square meters of land that was in the regime of use, management and availability of former social enterprises that are not estimated. These data are ringing the alarm that it's really high time for this bill to be passed. Of course, it is in everyone's interest that the passed law be perfected and quality in order not to leave only one in a series of laws that work out this topic and do not provide uniform and enforceable solutions. I therefore accept the commitment and the promoter, that for the reasons set out in the instructions of this law in the third reading, for the further development of some institutes, so that the concept is not disrupted and that it is in the most recent time, I would be free to ask the Ministry to do so within a maximum of two months after further consultations with all those who are interested and who have a share in the implementation of this law will be this law for adoption before the Croatian Parliament. This leaves time for some of the even clearer nomotechnical developments to be carried out. First of all, I am referring to Article 2(3) of the definition of a company and Article 28 which should be clearly established that for the rest of the building land which is part obtained without compensation, which is sold, this is clearly determined to be the same criteria as for tourist land. Because according to the current statement, it may be misunderstood that this treatment is not the same. I would say that this law determines tourist land, the concept of tourist land, so not according to the spatial-planned definition. Here the tourist land is defined primarily by the category of ownership-legal status and additional characteristics of the definition of purpose by spatial-planning documentation. But the emphasis is on this first one and that's the fundamental meaning of the law. This law may also be called only the Law on Building Land, unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation. Why? Because in that higher birth term, he would certainly affect tourist land. Because all tourist land that has such a purpose is determined by spatial and plan documentation is also a necessary building plot because on it the facilities were hotel and catering, there were camps that were also a building, so this name would include the whole meaning of the law. But as it has long been said about the problem of unconverted tourist land about the need to determine its title, then we think it is good that the title also includes tourist land, so that there is no confusion that it is lost somewhere. As for the difference between the first and second readings, they are nomotechnical clarifications, so the concept remains the same, the development of titleholders of ownership between camps, the land on which hotels were built, land for the necessary use of buildings and land in the ground floor under the building that was estimated. Here is, therefore, to the first reading this text has been improved, I hope that until the final proposal some nomotechnical doubts will also be removed, for the reasons of its enforceability because it is a real law that includes both land-based strictly formal and procedure that requires further precision. For all of these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law, i.e. its failure to read third, by expecting it very quickly on our third reading benches.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u47990	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u47991	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the State Secretary, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. First thing this law says. Here's to quote just this explanation of the proposal of this Law on Tourism Land where it is literally said that according to the ministry's latest findings, it is estimated that there is no estimated 22 million square meters of land in the camps alone. There is a significant area of other land which is also not assessed in social capital, the total area of land that is not introduced into the social capital of those legal entities is estimated at 100 million square metres. Now look, clearly this should be added agricultural land, the situation there is identical, and these agricultural companies clearly use nothing to pay anyone, but to return to these 22 million square meters of land. What are we talking about today? Who will be the owner of the circus only in capital camps worth at least 2 billion euros the next day, and if we look at all of this at least 10 billion euros. That's what we're talking about today. And that's why the IDS Club's position is that it's a bad law, and this isn't ideal, we think it's a bad law, but it's also a bad law better than no law, because this question has to be solved one day or once. I said this law is not ideal, it's a typical one of the state's authorities. The state doesn't admit it's so-called. tourism land until '93. any ownership of units of local self-government, more specifically local municipalities. '93. In the year, it was nationalised, kidnapped by local self-government, became state property, and since then problems have started. Clearly, it is not the only problem, the problem is that this typical Croatian conversion and privatisation also took place. The obvious problems would be far less, I'm not saying it wouldn't be if the state hadn't privatised the tourist systems. But we're going in a row now. So 17, 18 years in this country, the 10 billion-euro tourist property issue, for example, is simply not solved today. Why is it not in the state's interest in some way to come to even some symbolic fee higher than the same? I'm sure because let's be open to all governments, when it comes to tourist land they've given corruption from that capital. It doesn't matter now whether they were left or right, but when it comes to tourist land, hotel system owners have the impression that they knowingly corrupt influential individuals who could influence that matter. Some may be here today in the assembly, others in the government, third in retirement, they're fifth in the Constitutional Court, but the fact is that the issue didn't want to be solved. Is it normal, for example? That for 17, 18 years someone used 100 acres of camp without paying anyone a single kuna of compensation. I don't think that's normal, but it's a regular practice that takes 17, 18 years in this country. Who used those camps. Let's be open now, who's using this tourist land? First of all, banks that privatised tourism systems based on revolving and previously paid loans are all foreign property. Second, private investment funds are also owned by foreign property and there are clearly Croatian tycoons who had nothing in the 1990s, and today have become pillars of society. And to the team that have the most, there's more to be given. So those who got it all get it from this country more, and the poor are just getting it in this country, and now because of the ant's marifetteluks where he bought electricity for 82 euros, and he was selling aluminum in Bosnia by 22 euros, we're going to transfer the burden of resuscitating HEP to a new collection of 17 or 20 or 30 or 50%. Isn't it gentlemen on the other side, for example? Paradoxically that some small caterer, on one pulse forum or on that decumano in Poreč, one square meter of that space pays 16 euros to the city of Pula or Poreč or about 115 or 20 kuna, more specifically for one table covering 4 squares, you have to pay the city of Pula, Poreč, I don't know Cres, Lošinj, Split, etc. 400, 500 kuna, and some tycoon for 100 acres of camp, which clearly was arranged by his comrades and working class by the '90s. He doesn't pay a single kuna for years. Well, I'm asking myself how is that possible? Where else is that possible in Croatia? Probably nowhere. And why was that? Why now, the State's Attorney's Office, for example, Don't explore the background of that legal, social, I'll call her perversion. I repeat, this did not simply want to be resolved because individuals corrupted the political leadership of many, many parties. I repeat once again, for one camp of 100 hectares no one pays anyone a single kuna, and for one table in Poreč, Pula, Cres or what I know, Zadar, you have to pay 500 or I don't know how many kunas for a terrace of 30, 40 squares probably 5,000 kuna in a month. In one word, I don't need anyone to admit that I'm right, but I think it's time to simply pass such a law because it's based on these practices that corrupt political elites. Secondly, I claim that many individuals who have come into the position of one such camp, for example. In a year they could make a million, two, three, five pure money. And many homes in a tourist camp were like no camp. On the other hand, to be clear, I am absolutely against the fact that the astronomical prices of the next day we destroy the tourist activity of the land. Because we all know that 2009 was a difficult year. I'm afraid 2010 won't be any easier years. Last year, we were deluded into being Mediterranean tourism champions, and the CNB sobered us at the end or early this year with the data that the 2009 tourism income was 15% lower than in 2008. Which will say 1 billion euros was lower. What will be said again, transmitted, is that the state did not receive at least 220m euros at that time. If you add excise duties, taxes, contributions, in 2009, the state only lost at least 400,500 million euros. What they're going to say is, as much as in a year, we're coming in with this hack plus one percent higher VAT point. So 3 to 4 billion kuna. On the other hand, where is tourism today? Here I was yesterday in Poreč, and they said, "You won't believe in Poreč for just one hotel, in Poreč, plus one small one." In Umag, there might be something better. It's the same in Rovinj as in one Poreč. In one Rapco today, there may not be a single hotel. In one Opatija, I don't know if he's doing anything, but it's nothing, and the south is getting sadder. We were better off, more hotels worked on the Adriatic, not counting on refugees, exiles, war years than they are today. And what happens next day when it comes to tourist activity if VAT goes to 25% which is madness. Only then will their economy be destroyed. I don't know who can just suggest it. And tourism on the other hand should save the state under quotes. I don't know how he can save the state something that he's been doing for no longer than 45 days in a year, but in one word, I think this is one of those issues that we should clear out as soon as possible. Well, among other things, to start building something. Even though we've blocked all the investments in the country's fear of fear, they're all afraid of their own shadows, there's fear. Anyone in this country can be arrested, and the worst thing is if someone wants to do something. On the other hand, there are no investments, hotels are not built, golf is not built, camps are not built. We're against everything, etc. But to get back to the law. What is the point, a fee per square metre that will be regulated by sublegal acts must be reasonable. But let's just say that 60 percent of the country's distribution, 40 percent of local self-government is less important to me. I think all income should go clearly to the area of the county where the money is being realised because tourist activity is both hospital and road and all this, but let's let it go now. What's the point of the law? It means what the government has yet to prescribe by sublaw. So who's going to estimate the value of a square meter of that land, who's going to determine the rent per square meter. However, before that, although the Constitution will now prescribe I do not know these provisions on non-depreciation of conversion into privatisation now I see that all of this is falling into the water by this law. This law is in some way a message that since the revision there will certainly be nothing. Finally carry out the revision of the conversion that is impossible. Who's going to revise, gentlemen, today, for example. how to acquire tourist facilities from foreign banks? Well, no one can do that. And he who promises someone that he simply paints the people. Or let's say... which are foreign-owned, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In one word, it will turn into a hoax and unlike my predecessor, Mrs. Anne Lovrin, I am still joining Royce and his mythical "Whom, pitied." And that's how it's gonna be in the end, gentlemen, and we're aware of it here better than the citizens watching us. Is that it's unfair, is that it's harmful, is that it's amoral, but it'll probably be so. Third, why do we have to solve the matter of this land? From the fact that something can be built on it. In 20 years on the entire Adriatic coast, let's play reconstructions, let's play reconstructions, maybe they're even more expensive than a new hotel, but there aren't 10 new hotels built with more than 200 beds. I say there are no more than four new hotels built in Istria. And who does that suit? He's not answering anyone. It doesn't even match our hotelers. They'd have had a healthy competition, too. It's the least fitting to builders, the state can't answer at all because it would be incomeing something from VAT, I don't know, this or that. And people should, gentlemen, let them work and invest. Too much, that may be the most important thing when it comes to this law, the government will, the law will have 37 articles, but 20 places mention the need to settle something under the law. What will say is that these sublegal acts and the spirit of this unideal law can be changed. I still claim it's better and bad law than none when it comes to tourist land. However, I am keenly interested in whether the law in the third reading will be passed by 01.06 and whether those 20 sublegislative acts will be adopted by 01.06 so that some amount can be collected when the tourist season begins. If these sublegal acts are passed, I think, and there's a lot of money in the game, I think it's the corruption of political leadership again. And finally, we really need investments. It can't be like that anymore than tourism. I read recently that 5 billion euros of foreign money, only 1.1 billion in the financial sector, everything else in industry, agriculture, etc. was introduced in Vojvodina in five years. And we boast that we are a tourist leader in the Mediterranean, and at this moment, only one hotel is open in my Poreč. The same situation is in one Pula, in Umag I said something better, Rovinj, and down below Opatija I don't know if one is open.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u47992	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Excuse me, one correction, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u47993	Thank you very much. You said that most of them are the owners of tourist companies and hotels, private investment funds, tycoons and banks. I would correct you only in one part, for tycoons and investment funds exactly, and the banks are no longer because banks have successfully abused their position in the Homeland War long ago, when in the short term, lending to tourists who were in a very awkward situation because of exiles and refugees and destroyed objects in war crimes, they borrowed crafts to pay their salaries, accounting mates 30 to 50%, so their claims increased by several hundred times, and then converted those claims into equity shares. And as soon as they did, they sold these companies, what they invested in thousands of kunas, they sold millions of German marks back then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u47994	Thank you. Excuse me. Mr. Miljenko Doric on behalf of the HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u47995	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Each country that holds on to itself and which is well organized, takes special care of its natural resources, its natural heritage. Sea, maritime good or coastal belt in a broader sense, forests, springs of drinking water, our mountains, our agricultural land, our islands are our exceptional values. My colleagues and colleagues, the absence of this law, is proof that we are taking care of one segment of these natural resources of our natural wealth. I'll start with a few sentences from the report of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. My colleagues and colleagues sitting on that committee unanimously concluded that a third reading was being conducted. This was correctly explained and stated, however, that one full analysis of the situation is necessary. Now colleagues and colleagues would seem logical at first sight, but it doesn't make any sense at all. In fact, if the Assembly Committee had proposed these conclusions 15 or 16 years ago, then that would have been logical. We forgot the date. Today is the 17th day of February 2010. So for almost two decades, Croatia has no law that regulates this matter. So, the legal gap has allowed for years and years to be used by these most beautiful terrains on one of the most beautiful shores of our world, without any lack of compensation that would go to a local, county or state budget. My colleagues and colleagues are not about 200, 300 or 500 square meters, it's about a hundred million square meters of the most beautiful terrain. I'll repeat what I said during the first reading of the law. If we had concessions for those grounds and had charged only 10 kuna per metre per square year, we would be richer every year for exactly one billion kuna. I'm asking you to remember that number because we're going to need it in the later part of my debate. However, colleagues and colleagues, since he was not a designated holder of ownership, not only was it not possible to give someone in the concession to give those grounds, but it was not possible to invest, to enrich the tourist offer with sports, recreational and other facilities. So those billions of kunas would probably have grown to 5, 6 or 10 billion. Why was this law in some drawer, the bill's actually been in a drawer for so many years? Who's to blame? Who did we call today? And what are we gonna do that never happens again? My colleagues and colleagues, I'm going back to math now. If we came up with one simple calculation that we lost a billion kuna a year, then it's a daily loss of 3 million kuna. It's a weekly loss of only business concessions of 20 million kuna. This number of weeks, the week of calculations is interesting to me because you'll admit that you've all probably heard with approval the other day when our Prime Minister said that it's very difficult for the government to provide 22 million kunas to be compensated for farmers whose flour, or flour whose grain is missing from Djikovci silos. Two thousand and 300 farmers had wheat there and the value of the wheat was estimated at 22 million kuna. And we see that it's not easy to collect. The Prime Minister also suggested that not all of them be compensated, but only a thousand and 600 farmers, in order to make that burden clear throughout the country less. My colleagues and colleagues, any delay in this bill for a week basically results in a silo like the one in Djakov disappearing every week. Every year, 50 student silos disappear. In 20 years or almost 20 years, so do a thousand silos. Me and the HNS club can't agree with such a logic that laws that essentially lay down healthy bases to use this natural resource are constantly delayed. Fellow Members and colleagues, namely if we are not able to make it possible, for example, to transfer a relatively large amount of money through concessions in local, county or state budgets, then we do not have to be surprised that we do not have enough resources for certain social activities. This kind of work normally leads to such a difficult situation that we are in right now. Not accepting this law and not applying this law is no longer just an economic issue. Over time, this is becoming increasingly a matter of the mental health of Croatian politics. I ask you nicely to change our relationship to these laws and to our natural resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u47996	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u47997	... one indication of how much funds can be made to comply with this law. [[The speaker is turned on afterwards, you can't hear it.]] This is where 100 million square meters are mentioned. The law is necessary, it is necessary but the concession fee must be reasonable, let us not talk about 3 million kunas per day or 1 billion kuna per year because it would currently mean bankruptcy or better a hundred bankruptcys, bankruptcy of Croatian tourism before the tourist season itself. So, once again keep in mind, the fee that should be paid, should be paid by the owners of these hotel houses, but that fee should be reasonable in any case, not by building the same kind of activity that the country expects a lot of.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u47998	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. He's gone. Mrs. Mariana Petir on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u47999	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, MPs and MPs. The Act on Tourism and Other Building Land, unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation, completes the privatisation process in tourism, regulates the behaviour in the territory of Primorje Croatia, defines ownership of the territory and circles business in the hotel industry. This law has been passed for years and the state has been very careful in its adoption as it is highly sensitive topics. This law should address the problem of about 100 million square meters of land which was not introduced into the basic capital of hotel companies during privatisation and which is necessary and strategical important for the development of Croatian tourism and formal and content. The law on tourism and other construction land, unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation, allows the state to issue and charge concessions for its land in hotel complexes and camps, of which it has not earned anything. It is estimated that there are about 22 million square meters of unrated land in the camps and that the total area of land that is not introduced into the capital of tourist companies is as much as 100 million square meters. Hypothetically, if this year the state started issuing and collecting concessions only on land in camps at the price of, for example, 7 kuna per square as in Italy, it would receive 154 million kuna. At a total of 100 million squares at the same price, the state would earn 700 million kuna, so we can ask ourselves how much money we have lost over the last ten years as much as the Law on Tourist Land is trying to pass. Because of the undefined ownership status of the land, it was not only the state and local self-government but also the hotel owners and the camp owners who made it impossible for them to invest and categorize. In Croatian rural tradition, there is a common good institution and in urban public goods. This tradition includes, among other things, public access to beaches. The critics of this law warns that the collateral effect of the law will be to build wages and reduce public access to maritime goods. Since the trend of apartmentisation in the last ten years unfortunately bites and Croatia should make sure that tourists and locals have somewhere to put their towels. For such cases, we believe that the instrument of control of the concession contract, which this law provides, but not in all its details, is extremely important. Namely, any rebuilding as a result of the re-retraction and absence of careful spatial planning can be decapitated and the revenue from tourism that today accounts for 18% of Croatia's GDP can be reduced. I'm going to show it to Zorno on the example of Spain. Spain stepped in the recession in mid-2008 and a further blow to the possible recovery came from tourism. In fact, one of the world's most visited tourist destinations visited almost 15% of foreign guests last year. For a country where tourism creates 11% of GDP, it has caused additional problems. It wasn't just the economic crisis that caused the poor visit to Spain last year because tourists essentially escaped from overcrowded wages, noisy resorts, ecological destruction and high prices, and I think we should take a good lesson from that example. In view of the recent situation that we have witnessed and regarding Warsaw Street and the Flower Passage where the pedestrian zone has been transformed into a ramp within a spatial plan and that the competent authorities have given consent to this and that we know that our urban plans are neither quite conservative nor restrictive with the right to question whether this law can be called into question or to protect public goods in the local communities of our Primor. The new law should not allow tourism companies to go to the so-called functional units between facilities and maritime goods, coasts, building new hotels and other facilities because this would lead to construction expansion in hotel settlements and camps. This law should provide for a framework that will allow for the growth of the competitive capacity of tourism and contribute to and sustainable development of the local community, primarily through investment and employment. The law must in no way encourage speculation about real estate trade. In the establishment of a future fund, which will pool revenue from concessions and other payments stemming from the new law, we believe that representatives of interested companies, cities, municipalities, but also the Ministry of Tourism, and the price of concessions should be reasonable, respecting the criteria of profitability and position, especially when it comes to camps. Camps are doing different things financially. Some are at worse, some are at better or higher locations, some have invested a lot in their capacity and offer in the past, and some are virtually nothing. We in HSS certainly advocate that the tourist land that today is dead capital be put into operation and that concession contracts be precisely drawn up in terms of the protection of the interests of the state, local self-government, hotel owner or camp owner, and above all in terms of the protection of public goods. We must not forget that the Adriatic is also a desirable destination because of the cleanest sea in the Mediterranean, but also because of its natural beauty and because Croatia is indeed a Mediterranean team as it once was, unlike other countries that turned their coast into concrete and thus destroyed it irretrievably. We support in HSS the efforts made to finally pass the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land, unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation, because we believe that this completes the privatisation process in tourism, that it also regulates behaviour in the area in Primorje Croatia, to define ownership of the territory and to round up business in the hotel industry, which is extremely important for the improvement of Croatian tourism. And please also here from the Secretary of State further clarifications regarding the remarks made at the expense of this law, especially when it comes to public beaches and their use, because I think that is what the leaders of local self-government units in the field in Primorje Croatia are interested in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48000	Thank you. Right here at 10:57 p.m., it's past the time for a ten-minute hearing. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first representative is Mr. Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48001	Thank you very much, Mr. President. State secretaries with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. We all agree that this law is necessary and that one situation that has somehow been put into the framework and legalized for 20 years, that it should be put on paper, that the law should be passed so that they know what to pay, how to pay, to whom that money goes, etc. It is a large land, a large property, the promoter said 100 million square meters of land on the Adriatic, mostly on the Adriatic, of great value, of course the state must take care of the property. What I'm proposing, and I believe that the representatives' clubs will agree, too, to go to the third reading. Some things in the law still need to be done, some changes, I'll say which parts of the law are controversial. Investment in tourism in Croatia. It is evident that the law's intensity is to invest the money collected in tourism. It is a good idea, absolutely because we are aware of the situation of Croatian tourism, that Croatian tourism has failed 15% this year, regardless of the number of tourists' arrivals is 1% to 2% lower, but tourism revenues are about 15% lower. So Croatia lost a billion and 200 million kunas of tourism revenue this year, which amounts to about half the GDP drop last year. So, we don't have a strategy to get as much money out of tourism as possible, I wouldn't say good activity in tourism. I would equally share the responsibility between the Ministry of Tourism and the Croatian Tourist Board, as income results show this. And then when you see that the law's intensity is to invest something in tourism, of course you have to say hello. The investment will be made from the funds collected by concessions to be given for 30 years. And now the law defines that concessions, i.e. the value of the concession, will be determined by the Government, and that the money will then be shared by 60% of the fund, i.e. the state for tourism and 40% of the local self-government unit. What I think is that the main concern of the good part of tourist workers is that funds will be invested through the Tourism Fund, but not in those areas of which money is collected. So it's illogical to take the money for 200, 300 thousand square meters from the municipality, I'm going to say sucks now, or the city of Umag, and you're investing that money in another part of Croatia. What it should be to regulate the law, to invest the funds in a local self-government unit from where the company or the one who manages the facility is from. On the other hand, it may be very important to define and see how, if it will stay already the Tourism Fund, it is thought to invest. This is quite a general phrase, and I will say that we now have in Croatia and an item in the budget of the ministry that is small. We also have a Croatian tourist community that rules with 300 million kunas, of which the effects are very few, I would dare say they are almost gone, because I do not see that anything, that Croatia brands itself in the world as a country that is not, has so far been understood as a country of cheap tourism where you will spend a little money, or there is no need for large expenditures. Croatia has no part of it, a brand by which it would be recognizable in the world. This Mediterranean as it used to be, I think it's a slogan that can take over any country in the Mediterranean and say here's the country, that's the slogan for our country. So you're not doing it well enough. The current idea of branding Croatia as a gastro destination is real, I don't know how to comment at all. Imagine the situation, we brand Croatia as a country where you can eat good, say, Dalmatian food. And now a tourist comes to Istria and there offers him a fish waiter in Dalmatian etc. I don't think such a form of tourism and such branding of Croatia will simply bring any good. What I would like to put before the promoter, especially if it is going to go into third reading and that would not be bad. They know best what to invest in those who manage that investment. They are in the interest of investment being good, because the fact that most of the camps have built facilities where they will remain owners regardless of whether they paid the concession, gave up or gave the concession to someone else. So they will remain property owners, and they are in the interest of investing in investment, i.e. in that part of the country and space as high as possible. My proposal is to recognise investment in the future as part of the concession. So, to break the obligation of part of the concession with what, say, camps or some tourist companies will invest in the area. Because in this way, the more quality I think we would invest in tourism, of course, with agreement with someone in front of the state, cannot be invested without the state allowing within some of the criteria it would set. You can't invest what I know at camp in some unnecessary detail just because it suits the owner. It must be a common interest of state and owner. But investment in camp should be recognised through the concession as a reduction in the next period. Also, what I want to point out is very important to negotiate regardless of what is now being paid for 20 years, it is very important to negotiate with the tourist companies that would be. So, the government will adopt a regulation that will be the price of the concession, but to see what is real for the tourism sector. I think that, let's just say, it's mentioned in a culinary way that the concession will be from one to five euros. Five euros for a camp concession is an awful lot of hotel money, etc. Well, one euro is big money when you take as many individual camps as there's room. These companies do not realize God knows what results, and it is important now not to kill that part of the industry, i.e. that many people would not decide to close camps because of the level of concession, or that it is simply cheaper for them to close the camp, but to continue to do especially what tourism in Croatia brings a large part of the tourist cake. So we have to have at least some gauges and it's not a good thing that in this preparation of the regulation, communication has not come in such a way that people are aware of how realistic it is to expect the level of concession for their area. I absolutely think this law should be passed, I expect a third reading to define some of these things in the law, to be fixed. I absolutely support investing money from the payment of concessions in tourism. I said in Croatia the average tourist spends 30% less than on other destinations. For what? Because there is no strategy for tourism, because there is no idea how to sell something to a tourist, because there is no concept of what is done in tourism. And it needs to be changed. If this is a step towards it, of course I'll support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48002	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48003	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, he was here with a colleague, a colleague and a colleague. I'm going to try to stay out of the political determinations of this law just on what he really wants to regulate the technical aspect of the problem. And regardless of what I signed as chairman of the Assembly Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, I signed a report on what the board thinks. 12 of us were equal-minded people to go into third reading. I would actually like to commend the promoter, the Ministry of Justice who actually covered it in itself, the best possible way to look at it from a legal point of view. And I was against and suggested a third reading because I think those following acts and the practical aspects of this law aren't finished. So I would from the point of view of engineers who view this issue as not a lawyer even though it's all about laws, about law, but it's still regulated by some technical problem. I'd rather talk like that. So, one engineering look, at least here I am in Parliament the best architect because I'm the only architect, so then I have the right to talk like that. It is also indisputable that fellow Maras also said other representatives of clubs that this law is actually necessary to pass, that this problem is better said to be resolved and that this support should be given in this sense, that private ownership should be reached, because without it, neither those who have these facilities, nor the local environments in which this is happening, nor the state can be better filled with its budget. Therefore, due to the opening of the possibility of development programmes, because of new projects, because of the rise in the level of projects already in place on the ground and in the extreme case of revenue, a significant amount expressed in euros or kunas from possible sales and possible concessions should be adopted as soon as possible. I don't know what the third reading is about whether it's delayed or not. In any case, it is a more important quality text in this second reading compared to the first reading and proves that the proposaler has adopted a lot of remarks that have been made in the first reading, that the Proposer is working with all those with whom to cooperate. Perhaps still those who will be specifically not to say affected, but to whom the law applies in the first place are tourist entities that should be with them some concrete, some concrete solutions, some model questioning in nature. Because there is simply no unequivocal problem that should be analysed a little bit and put these specificities into the law, perhaps a little bit more detail. And from my point of view in the front row when it comes to spatial problems. It is incontestable that today, in practice, the Law on the Sea Good raises huge doubts about possible interpretation of certain situations, the experience I carry from Split to the main... , i.e. from the area of port administration, as state institutions, the institutions of state interest of four entities have been treated differently in terms of the recording of cadastrian, property and all other rights resulting from this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Up to the absurdity that an object that exists on the fortune almost doesn't exist in a legal sense. I reiterate that the concept of the law is exclusively legal as a matter of law is not sufficient and for this reason, in my opinion, it should be more detailed to discuss the issue of regular use and I mentioned on the committee the term of functional use which may not be the most qualitative solution of the name, but in any case, through a functional one can be considered as necessary in order to achieve what is desired by categorisation of the facility. In that sense, I did not react to the leadership of my fellow Leka in terms of the definition of building land because it is known, I did not want to correct the allegations because I have my own debate. The definition of building land is known by law and it is known what building land means, but what is crucial in this respect is not the issue of building land, but the possible categorization of buildings as they want to be or already are in the future, and any different land regulation would not allow them to do so. To speak in the debate in the Parliament about being eligible for one, I have never met another before that something that is not of the interest of the economy would not be of interest to both the state and the charging of the state budget, it is only a question of whether an individual interest is at the expense of the state budget, whether it is at the expense of the state, but I do not think that the harmony between the economy and the state must in itself be negative that it can function very well. In a certain way, I am on the side of hotel workers, i.e. tourist workers in all of this together, because I think hoteling is one activity that is low-accumulated, it is not easy to do business in the hotel industry, it is very difficult to finish the balance with a positive result, and in the end of the day hotel financing is being managed by those who have long-term funds. So, on the one hand, we need to regulate i.e. property law whether it is a land purchase or a concession at their disposal, but of course the definition of the price of that land and the definition of the concession fee will certainly show whether it achieves positive effects for the economy, through the economy and for the state, or whether only the state goes to settle itself without taking care of those who are. How this law comes in order to regulate the owners of objects of the assumption that the state has its own interest in the interest of economic operators, not to look at itself alone, because it could simply spell out everything it wants. I think it would be good for the third reading to contact all those in which this law applies, to analyse some specific situations so that there would be no individual local interpretation of the law, a way that in one case it would be resolved in one way, in another case in another way. So, if we can get to the bottom of two more four, and not that it's a question of arbitration of someone who's going to implement this law, to certainly look at the problem of maritime goods, to look at the problem of the definition of regular use, especially through the context of the categorization of objects to have a category and to have a purpose to be talked about because it's not just a category issue, but it's also a question and the character of objects being built, certainly that the problem in the camps may be less defined than what the objects are defined. But something that seems extremely important to me, which is that as soon as possible, a fund for the use of alimony funds is being set up to return to tourism so that the experience of the Agency for the Transport of Agricultural Land, which was stipulated by law, has not been operational, so we had to look for new solutions to avoid a standstill in real estate traffic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48004	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48005	Thank you very much. I'd like to stress again what I said. In principle, this law does not define what tourist land is. In principle, it does not define, and the spatial and urban plan must specify it in nature what it is. This situation will enable this law to first define what tourism land is, so pressure is being put on those who will work urbanism and spatial plan, and so we will lose the general interest of the society where it will be built and what will be built. That's what I see. This is what those who have seen this law on specific examples see. And that's what I wanted to point out, and I'm staying with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48006	Answer, Mr. Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48007	I also said that it is necessary to see how this will work in practice, but I am still telling you exactly what the Spatial Planning Act knows about building land. Therefore, there is no need to say in this what is building land. The same question, that I may tell you, is also a matter of spatial planning. The spatial planning defines tourist zones, as defined by all others, is only a matter of interpretation within the spatial plan of defined zones which is not seen here and therefore I stress the needs of a solution, within one and the same tourist zone, which is part of the maritime good, which is part outside the maritime goods. So the question is that it has nothing to do with the definition of what building land is, but also tourist land is also building land because. What? ... No, no, it's not. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Building land is all that there is construction, and then there are different uses of individual building land. I think the problem is more of my profession than, or the domain of spatial planning, than tourism or the Ministry of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48008	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48009	Thank you, Your Honor. At the very beginning, I would like to welcome the proposal's decision to respect the position and request of the SDP, and to refer this extremely important bill to the third reading. I'm sure that decision will make it possible to improve this bill. This law is about a problem which has caused major traumas in Croatian society over the past 20 years, especially in the 1990s, during the period of predatory tycoon privatisation, robbery and kidnapping of social property, poverty of most Croatian citizens and citizens, their loss of work, and the life of a decent man. For this reason, when adopting this law, we must be particularly careful and blow to the cold in order not to further traumatise and damage the suffering, privatization, suffering Croatian society. Although I'm not dealing with this problem, I've received e-mails with remarks from lawyers dealing with this issue, and their remarks seem to be justified to me, so I'm going to present them to you at this time. I would like to remind you that the 1991 Law on the Conversion of social enterprises needed to be translated into social enterprises in order to get companies with social capital to own them. In this conversion, it was necessary to make changes to the forms of ownership of the company’s assets as largely as possible, but the conversion of ownership of social assets into a company could also be implemented later in the legal manner prescribed by the renewal of the procedure or later by the Privatisation Act. In the transformations carried out by social enterprises due to legal conditions and restrictions on the transport of land, certain properties such as the land we are discussing today remained unrated in the company's capital, but the new commercial company could still use and still use it, but without valid registration of ownership in the public grant book. On this occasion, I also remind you of the provisions of the Law on the Croatian Privatisation Fund, in particular the Art. 3rd and 4th concerning the delirious fund, which says that the Croatian Privatisation Fund is founded to implement and complete the privatisation of former social enterprises and manages the property owned by the Republic of Croatia when determined by law or by the Government's decision. And the 1996 Privatisation Act in Art. In addition, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union are not compatible with the internal market and that they are not compatible with the internal market. This means that, behind this, we no longer had social property in Croatia, but the need to settle the real situation and register ownership in public books. All these provisions are important for the problem we are dealing with today in this bill. The above-mentioned legal provisions show that the Croatian Privatisation Fund has become the owner of unrated real estate, mostly only land, when property could not be entered into the social capital of companies in the process of converting social enterprises due to legal restrictions. Today, the Fund is tasked with completing the privatisation of other tourist land and building and other building land with social property status, especially land that has not been estimated and entered into the company of capital. All the above-mentioned laws are still valid, but the proposal of the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land is not assessed in the process of conversion and privatisation in line with these regulations, and it contains elements which justify that experts will not apply equally to all cases. In view of the possibility of unequal practice and application, the constitutionality of this bill should now be asked. In addition, a change in the name of this law should also be considered as the subject of the law is, in fact, the conditions and procedure for enrolment of ownership rights and the availability of land property within the building area of the intended catering and tourist activity. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 2. It should be more clearly defined which land is concerned and which land is In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 6 relating to the land of social property belonging to a camp must not be entered into a company of capital but be made available through concessions. Experts believe that this special law must specify the purpose of land, campsites, tourist settlements, zones etc., and encourage and facilitate the solution of ownership status over property from art. 47. The Privatisation Act, if the property was located or is now located in the building area according to the applicable spatial-planned documentation intended to develop tourism. In this special law, it should also be encouraged in a simplified manner by clearly written rules to allow, in some administrative procedure, the parties currently known, such as the owner of the land of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the non-booked owners of construction facilities, companies or individuals, to resolve ownership relations and further meaningful management, and to make them legally subject to the prescribed registrations in public books. For this purpose, one of the interested parties should prepare appropriate documentation, usually a geodetic elaborate for implementation in the public book of cadastras, and later, under the official duty of enrolment of ownership in the grant book. Of course, there is also the acquisition of various consents of interested persons, and there is also a need to point out that there is a proper increase in the capital of the company and that is, on behalf of the investment of capital by the Croatian Privatisation Fund for the share of the value of the land. This procedure should establish the actual shape and area of land used for the regular use of buildings or groups of objects for which a specific land particle should be formed which, by entering a public book, would become the property of that entity which has recognised the land in a legal manner or whose ownership of the land has been recognised under the law of the entity which has acquired the property of any object in the conversion and privatisation, so far its off-book owner has remained. In any event, it would be necessary to amend and supplement the Privatisation Act in an appropriate manner, i.e. Article. 47. Experts also stress that the new administrative procedure would have to comply with both the current situation and the facts, and the procedure must be followed and the provisions of other applicable laws should be applied, e.g. Laws on land books, catasters and the Law on spatial planning. In any case, property relations with regard to the acquisition and registration of ownership over the land of the construction area intended for tourism activities that were once in the social property regime should be arranged as quickly as possible, so the adoption of a good law is an important matter for the development of tourism as a serious branch of the Croatian economy. In this regard, I hope that the Proposer will appreciate the comments made during the third reading and develop a quality legal solution and perhaps a package of amendments to other laws covering this topic and in order to achieve a long-term quality and fair solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48010	Thank you. We have one replica, Vice President Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48011	Thank you very much. At one point, a colleague Holly mentioned the economic situation of tourist companies, i.e. the catering tourism companies to which this law essentially applies, or all the solutions that will be positive will allow some positive shifts in this as well. However, speaking of the situation in these companies, counterpart Holly referred only to the consequences of conversion and privatisation. I would like to warn of the current state of the Croatian economy and the position that these tourism and catering companies have. It's all on your knees. The eyes are facing tourism as an activity that will significantly help this year and help us to overcome this crisis, the whole country and the entire economy. I think that when we talk about this law, we must also consider the specific conditions in which the Croatian economy, i.e. tourism, operates today. And that it's okay for all these improvements and all these solutions to resolve property-legal relations. But we must make sure that this law is not noose around the door of tourism and tourist activity. And that at the moment when they do not have the means to prepare the tourist season to get another imposition by all those who already exist and none of whom have been abolished since today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48012	Thank you. Mrs. Mirela Holly's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48013	My colleague Antunovic, you are absolutely right and there is not only that problem that you mentioned, but the problem is generally in the thinking of Croatian tourism. And I would remind you here and we had opportunities and recently discussed that famous report on the deadline for completion of those three documents that were not made, and we don't know when they would be made, which shows that the Croatian government's lack of ideas about the strategic definition of tourism. And I'm afraid that this condition will be seen and already in these extremely crisis years, and unfortunately in the years to come.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48014	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn that he doesn't have. Then, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48015	Thank you very much. Dear sir, the honorable secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The Act on Tourism and Other Building Land, or its adoption, already has a long legal history. It's been preparing somewhere since 2003, the fourth, fifth years. Of course, this bill, which is very good that the Proposer has accepted to go to third reading because of also a number of objections, but in any case this is a far-reaching step towards that original proposal of 2005 which was above all not satisfied by those who should first satisfy and satisfy justice above all. return that land to the owners of the i.e. To citizens, the more there has been a law on the return of property seized during the Yugoslav communist rule. However, I know and we all know that there has been great pressure on the people of Europe, but I would not say that they represented the European Union but who knows whose interests. And that's what we need to talk about here in the Croatian Parliament so we don't be silent tomorrow at the European Parliament. Namely, what's this about? I was present for a meeting just in 2005 when the draft law was in a procedure where former owners were not satisfied, the large majority of which were not satisfied, which is why the government formed a special commission drawn up and from the opposition how to prepare an adequate one in any case a more favourable text. That's when Mr. Degert banged his fist off the table and said, "What's going on with the Tourism Land Act?" I ask him, and what's going on? Why doesn't that land belong to hotels? And I tell him, so Mr. Degert on what legal basis? He didn't answer, of course. Therefore, let us be aware that someone represents also someone's special interests and that these were not pressures from the European Union because they have nothing to be about. Of course, here's our thing whether the Tourism Land Act will follow that famous Golf Act, the Agricultural Land Act, the Water Act. Unfortunately, despite the numerous improvements, there are still some relics and rudiments that have already somehow settled and have become an integral part of our legal terminology, which has not been so far, which we find in the Water Law and the Law on Golf Courses. Namely, what's this about? The owner is obliged to sell, the state is obliged to sell, the local self-government unit is obliged to sell. The property obliges but in another direction, to use it knowingly, but not to sell it to someone. So I'm going to talk about it more specifically in certain provisions. But in any case, when we talk about this bill, it may not be too much to remind what our legal theorists say when they elaborate tourist land by saying what it is. They continue to believe that the legal concept remains the real foundation of the Property Act and other real rights on building land, mainly building land. So for them, this is still the term "so-called." tourist land. So let the Proposer consider whether to continue to keep this newly formed, newly-composed term because whatever appears on some land, then we will call it such land and will have a legal special regime, which is absolutely unacceptable. We must always adhere to the Law of Property and other real rights and nothing else under certain laws can be solved differently. It may be something precise but the basic principles of the Property Act and other real rights cannot be derivated. Here you define what tourist land is. Of course it's said to be building land that hasn't entered the core capital. However, we must remind ourselves that in nature it represents an extremely large number of real estates, extremely large areas, priceless values and priceless values. Of course they are important not only to their former owners, but to all citizens and state as a whole. Of course, it also prevents private entrepreneurs as individuals, as small craftsmen, from preventing businesses, catering companies from performing their regular activities or imagined their activities to ensure their own and their families survival. In general, in terms of tourism land, we must also remember the Law on Privatisation of Social Enterprises, where this value was not evaluated, where nevertheless the Croatian Privatisation Fund gave consent and from where many were registered. It caused a big mess of law although it's very simple. It was simple then when they entered illegally, illegally often and in a criminal manner, which is why many proceedings are being conducted throughout Croatia, not only in respect of books, land rights, but also in the criminal departments of our regular courts. Namely, the Croatian Privatisation Fund received about 600 such requests, 30% managed to resolve them, but they continue to call for a provision of Article 47 so-called. Technological units. So for them, the technological whole of the company was a constitutional lawsuit, of course there were more and they experienced an infamous failure in front of the Constitutional Court, of course they were silent about it because they wanted to seek, disprove Article 47. The law on privatisation before the Constitutional Court. They failed, it was kept secret, or they did not experience an adequate popularization such as the Constitutional Court's position. I believe that the Proposer has this in mind and it is now quite clear that, based on such provisions, they could not write down what was not evaluated. They wanted to sell anyway. One had, one company in Rovinj had so much ambition to attach the surrounding forests and parks to itself because it was all a technological whole. Therefore, this gramptitude, there is no end to it. No one is against it because we make good money from tourism, the whole state is coming from it. But the basic principle must be that they pay for it. What's going to happen to everything? We have this one illegal situation that is obvious to have been illegal simply cannot be covered by the law. Twenty years they've held it without any legal basis. Some sort of fee, and even with regard to those who would like to compete either to compete as future concessionaries, should also be settled because otherwise, basic justice, such a message as you would then, of course, the Government must send that one message to the citizens. What kind of message is that? If for twenty years someone has been holding it unlawfully, if in this way, instead of returning this land here, as is the case in Zadar of Puntany, whose property today has not been returned, and this is the property of their grandfathers, the great-grandfather who was nationalized, were built in socialism hotels but at least they worked in these hotels. Now they don't work in these hotels, their property is kind of nationalized again and in a way through those provisions of this bill. Therefore, I ask that it be kept in mind that those who have not entered this social capital which is not evaluated or entered the camps to automatically become state property. The units of local self-government, state-owned and only in the end are they mentioned by private owners. I don't think that's enough, that through all the provisions because we just need it, so it's a proper court, somewhere it's controversial to determine the titlemaker. So here there can be state property, ownership of a local self-government unit only where it's not private property that must then be returned, but under the existing law. One particular point I would like to point out is that these concession provisions are different than in the concession law and it is said that, the Minister told us at the time, it is explained that no concession provision in certain laws will be resolved in a different way. Unfortunately, this is not the only law, but we have three, four laws where concession provisions are regulated differently. And I'd just like to say that you have a situation in camp ownership, we have to watch life go, that there is no camp long ago, and that simple land should be returned to previous owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48016	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48017	Thank you. In our country, many believe that the last value left is land, and therefore this caution heard by parliamentary representatives when talking about tourist land. I agree that first of all the owners need to be compensated by the natural restitution but the question that is being asked why they sell state land, why the state should deny that land, why it does not give up under concession. You see, in Dalmatia, what we say is a lot of travail with this land, so huge areas are purchased by our islands of indigenous, autonomous population as agricultural land at no small price value. Then certain plans would turn that land overnight into a tourist i.e. In building land, the chosen individuals became billionaires overnight in the effort of those who have lived there for centuries and whose ancestors lived there for centuries. That's what the attitude calls a traffic light policy when the green color turns into another color, only when it corresponds to the one that figuratively drives the car. And that car is usually about those who are still in power. And I have to say, it's one of the great sources of corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48018	Reply to the replica of MP Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48019	Here's a colleague of mine. You're done with something that may not be directly related, but indirectly, there's a repercussion. Well, my grandfather's and my great-grandfather's always been a construction site, and during the night, it became half built, touristic, so that other people's olive trees would be declared a construction site. It's an old thing, but it's just a matter of the local self-government unit and their self-will on what the state has to find mechanisms to suppress such lawlessness. What you are saying and what I mentioned in the tourist land or tourist land in the camps is a controversial provision of Article 6 which says that tourist land whose value is not properly estimated is owned by the Republic of Croatia. It can not be owned by the existing but property of the Republic of Croatia but can be owned by the Republic of Croatia if it is not returned because most of it is precisely private property that is nationalised and such you have examples. Here, I'm telling you the question of the Puntany, the question of Borik in Zadar. Furthermore, you also speak state several times, each time our senior officials will not sell the most valuable land. Now we're saying it's tourist land. Unfortunately, it is mentioned only in article 4 that it is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, it should perhaps be immediately at the beginning. And that such invaluable values that we still have will not be sold. Therefore, the contested provision of Article 27, which states that the Republic of Croatia will sell to a commercial company at its request land at market price. Why not a concession, why not a real building? In the end, the provision of Article 29, where the administrative body will do so and give the order to the land and book department. No administrative body and no one in this country has the right to issue a court order, that court alone can. Therefore, here is one, I also use this opportunity to take this provision of Article 29. "offer" replaces the word "pray."
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48020	The second replica of representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48021	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam MPs, you have the right to say that in the process of passing this law you have tried to put pressure on both the promoter and this Assembly in a way that it has been said that there are objections from Brussels, above all from the circles of those who had an interest in these hotel companies and that Brussels is objecting to difficulties in the negotiations in the chapter of freedom of movement of capital. But what is certain is that this law and the adoption of this law have nothing to do with negotiations or with legal gain. I saw the memos that went to the European Commission. They were simply lobbying letters from lawyers, foreign lawyers representing these hotel houses and, of course, wanting to get all that land, regardless of what was not paid in the conversion. I responsibly claim that this law does not endanger or oppose anything. Equally, it does not violate the Stabilisation and Association Agreement because it treats Croatian citizens and citizens of the European Union in exactly the same way, and Croatia has the right to decide whether to sell or make concessions. And another thing, therefore, is that this law is contrary to the provisions of the Golf Act defines tourism land and the motioner has not accepted the proposal of some hotel-tourism workers to define tourism land, except for this ownership-legal status of unconverted properties, and the spatial-planned term of tourist land, and that it will then determine and how the rule of state or someone third with private property is going to be governed by what I consider inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48022	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48023	Of course, this law is not a bargaining condition, nor was I talking about it, it's undeniable. However, I wanted to especially potentiate the situation where someone, acting on behalf of the European Union, wants to know whose, perhaps their own interests are linked to who knows whose capital and what capital, are linked. That's what I experienced from Mr. Degert, who pounded his fist at the table, asking for land, to enter into the law of a provision that allowed this unrated capital to enter into the property, to become the property of these hotels. Of course I stood up to it and it was his own trip, but they usually do so and see how they can and can. In such informal encounters or even formal, whether they happen at a meeting, outside, it is necessary to strongly oppose defending our national interests, and our greatest national interest is precisely this property, land, forest, water. But we have a lot of pressure, only with us. Here you see, the hotel association itself also feels that this law is not good, but not for these reasons that we're talking about here. No, but they would, even now they're premature, why? Because now we'd have to pay some sort of fee, like that. They're used to paying no one, that's the problem. And that's something that's unforgivable on behalf of all citizens that they've been using other people for 20 years without even paying the kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48024	The speech was requested by a proposing representative, State Secretary Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48025	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think it's time for us to point out a little bit more strongly, since the open question is whether there have been any pressures related to the making of this law. I can here on behalf of a whole group of people who have been working on this law for a little more than six months which is extremely complex that we've all come to terms with and probably is one of the reasons why we don't have it this long. And as you've noticed, there's a big difference between the law we had in the 2005 procedure and the law we have today. I would say that we have a law that is sustainable, that offers tools, that offer mechanisms to get to what we want, which is to define the owner of all that land. What I'd say is, the law seems to be working in a good environment. It's very difficult, you've seen for yourself how much interest there is in this law that needs reconciliation. One is the interest of local self-government units, one is the interest of the Republic of Croatia, of course. Then there is the interest of previous owners who took away the land. And these are all interests that are very often mutually excluded. Now we have to actually find some common solution that will be acceptable to everyone. That's why I'd say it's a good environment, no one's pressuring us for anything, no one's conditionaling on us, but how we're going to settle that question will be. That is why I have also accepted on the Committee on Spatial Planning and on the Committee on Tourism that the law goes into third reading, that further issues are being completed and, of course, there have been very good discussions here so far, very concrete discussions and you have opened the question of concessions yourself. I'll tell you right now, this law has a concession as a lex specialis, it's a special concession because under the concession law we'd have to go to public tenders. We're not interested in this story. We are interested in this story that these tourism societies, which continue to master these land, are somehow directly concessioned under this lex specialis law. It's what's of interest not to bring them someone to bid and who's actually going to speculate in these stories. So I want to throw away any debate about us having any pressure from this or that. We in one correct, I'd say, tone, in a correct environment we're discussing with all the interested participants and I think we're very soon here with a third reading. Because the basic concept, as much as we talk to hotelers and everyone else, is the basic concept I don't think we can have but the one that's proposed here. All these discussions until the second reading are more about technical improvements than we can go to any other concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48026	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. It's Gary Cappelli's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48027	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Building land which has not been assessed in the value of the social capital of a social enterprise in the process of conversion or building land which is not entered into the core capital of a company in the privatisation process is the basis of the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land, which is not assessed in the process of conversion and privatisation, which we therefore have the opportunity to discuss today. The regulation of legal and economic relations related to tourism land is also necessary for the development of Croatian tourism. The Law on this problem should ensure, therefore, the framework for the growth of the competitiveness of Croatian tourism and contribute to the long-term and sustainable development of the local community primarily through investment and employment in this area. In addition, the new law should also enable market repositioning, as well as restructuring of Croatian tourism, as well as its orientation towards business throughout the year. Namely, today's situation in which the ownership and legal situation on that land is not regulated is extremely harmful for the Republic of Croatia, and as you could see in the materials according to the latest findings, it is estimated that only in the camps is not estimated, so the circus is about 20 million kunas of land, a few million square meters of land, which together with the surface of other land which is not estimated in conversion and privatisation is about 100 million square meters. However, the whole legal situation, therefore, is not exclusively to the harm of the state but also to the damages of tourist entities that the uncertainty about the ownership and use of these properties, so without a valid legal basis, makes it impossible to invest and invest in these same properties. Although we also have cases where investments have already been made without any permission of local construction or consent, units of local self-government with the intention that one day it may be possible to resolve the issue, i.e. The legalization of what they've done at this point and against the law. The law therefore regulates several fundamental issues, which determines which land is therefore considered to be tourist and unrated building land within the meaning of this law, so it is determined in a way that the holder of ownership over tourist land depends on the purpose of land, especially on the land in the camps and especially on the land on which hotels or tourist settlements are built. The titleholders of ownership, i.e. co-ownerships, and related to the scope, are also also determined, therefore, to assess the value of social capital in the process of converting it into part or whole of land and buildings. There is also a concession on demand, so companies, land in camps and marine goods, which I would also look back here since we were saying that the law would go into third reading. I would refer to a few of the problems that arise here, which is that in the process and public debate, there is a final proposal for a new Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, which defines legal issues on the maritime good, which is usually right next to tourist land. In the case of this, it says that one of the basic issues is, therefore, in the case of both laws, the adoption of concessions on tourist land owned by the Republic of Croatia and units of local self-government, but also on the maritime good. And we know the maritime well as a general good legally no owners, while tourist land can be in a private, state or ownership unit of local self-government including co-ownership therefore the community. Therefore, it is very important to see the possibility that otherwise it will have to go to a public tender for a concession on the maritime good, and also in that public competition anyone else can come forward and get that part of the maritime goods, so which may be one economic whole we can tell that same camp or hotel. And in that case, someone else may be managing this maritime well - being that's maybe a couple of feet away from a hotel or camp. It is also important to take care of the coastal area, which is, we know that up to 100 meters of tourist resorts can practically build nothing. Thus, this part of the concession will not be possible in nature and will build something. It also lays down the rights and conditions for the natural return of the seized land to previous owners who, in due course, have applied for the return of that land in accordance with the provisions of the Property Compensation Act taken from them during the Yugoslav communist rule, if that land is therefore not brought into force for the purpose for which it was taken away, or if, on the date of entry into force of this law, it is not used for the purpose for which it was taken away. The establishment of the right of ownership on tourist and construction land which is subject to the regulation of this law removes the legal vacuum regarding the ownership and legal status of those properties, thereby establishing legal certainty in the use of these same properties. Therefore, the establishment of property holders opens up the possibility of investment activity on tourist and construction land and enables the conclusion of valid legal transactions as well as the legal use of these land and property. I am convinced that it is evident from the material itself that in this proposal the law has approached with great studioism, serious and desire is therefore that professionally seeking and formally and meaningfully access to this problem, find a solution that enables growth, so as I said at the beginning of the competitiveness of Croatian tourism, thus contributing in the long term to the development of therefore local communities. Just as the law will go into third reading, I would ask that one option be considered, which is said in Article 33, "The first rule of law has a Republic of Croatia and a trade society." I might consider putting in a local self-government unit, so that's my suggestion as it goes into the third reading I'm going to ask maybe to see something on that plan too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48028	Thank you very much. It's time for the debate of MPs Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48029	Thank you, Vice President, State Secretary with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. In fact, the law also has a long time period of adoption and it should actually solve part of the consequences of conversion and privatisation. And that's why it's good for him to go to third reading, because there are still some controversial provisions from the essentials to the termological ones. And I think we should actually, not just this law, but all the laws we should look at within the framework and some other regulations that have already been passed and that are in force. So, they would have to comply with each other, so I think this law should be brought into line with the Property Act and other real rights in the termology section. Because that law doesn't know tourist land. Tomorrow we could talk about industrial land. So where will be the industrial plants, etc. And since this is a law that solves as I have said the consequences of part of the conversion and privatisation it mainly refers to building land, so I think maybe even in the title should, in the name of the law, throw out this tourist land. I'll say something later, so it's not just the land where the tourist facilities are, it's some other building land. It should also comply with the Law on concessions, so in the follow-up of the exposures, I will say in which part, and on the Return Act, taken-back property, so three laws that are very important, which should be in line with this law. However, this cannot be drawn, the debate cannot be drawn from the context of conversion and privatisation itself. When the review was carried out by the State Audit Office, and gave us the final report I'll just remind you of the results, I think it was in 2004. It included a thousand 536 social enterprises that went into conversion at the time, an audit of 86.7% of the core capital of all companies that were in conversion. It should be said that the Law on Conversion and Privatisation experienced several changes that led to certain negative consequences in the course of application. Not only because the law was changing, but because the Privatisation Fund at the time gave certain instructions, this resulted in different ways and criteria for the development of a draft on conversion and evaluation of value. The report said that 484.7 million German marks were not evaluated, and these newly created companies benefited from this. That the value of 124 million German marks is less estimated, and that they are overestimated by the foundations of the paid and re-valorised loans and which were mainly transferred as co-ownership of the then, or banks that re-valorized the further 356 million German marks. If, therefore, 2 million 774 thousand 577 square meters of land were not evaluated in these audited enterprises, this should also be regulated through this law by 89 thousand square meters of object surface area. Therefore, the revision also says that at the moment of the audit itself, it was not able to assess that value. So these are the causes, i.e. the consequences that require that some new law that we are now discussing be dealt with. And when we talk about Article 2 which defines as tourist land, I think we should talk about building land that did not enter the core capital during conversion and privatisation, but that companies use them all this time without paying any financial obligations. In that part of the building land exists as state land, there is maritime goods and there is private land that should actually be returned through the return process to their rightful owners. Article 3(1) states that concessions on such land will be awarded at the request of the company referred to in Article 8, and Article 8 says that those companies which, I say, are co-owners or have entered one part of such land into capital. However, the Law on concessions adopted in 2008 speaks of several exceptions regulated in Articles 5 and 6. It is also said in Article 5 that the concession law will not apply to concessions to which regulations or contracts apply with other countries or international organisations, and Article 6 says that it will not apply to the activity of radio and television, to agricultural land and gambling. Therefore, this exemption could not be regulated in this way in the law, if we do not change at the same time in this respect and the basic law, the Law on concessions. In this respect, it is also related to Article 6 of Article 8 where this segment is currently referred to, where tourist land is in camps, whose value is not fully assessed in social capital, that in the process, i.e. in the conversion process, that this remaining land will be owned by the Republic of Croatia, but in nature it may also be part of the land that should be returned, and this should also be taken into account. And then this Article 8 which regulates such an exemption, an exemption from the basic Law on concessions. And perhaps just to look back on this part of the chapter of tourist land on which hotels and tourist resorts were built. I already said in the introduction that the conversion and privatisation, i.e. the draft on the conversion of social enterprises, was based not only on the Law on Conversion and Privatisation, but also on the specific guidance given by the Croatian Privatisation Fund. So he said at one point that the land could not be estimated and entered into the underlying capital, so that the following way would be said to go to the land that is under the facility, or technology as a whole. However, no one has actually defined what this is, and what part of the land is possible to enter into the underlying capital, evaluate and enter into the underlying capital. And so it turns out that it was reacting differently in terms of the time when the lab was being produced, and then you have a situation that someone in terms of technological integrity has taken up a large part of the land that isn't actually in the function of production or activity itself, while others have not, if they've actually done an elaborate before, actually. Therefore, both the question and the value, the estimated value, and the question whether such land entered the laboratory itself was assessed, whether it was a real price, or whether it was actually paid, and then could not be regulated in such a way as Article 21(2) says, in order to establish on the basis of a specific regulation whether it serves as a regular use of the building and to be sold on a market value demand. So it's good that it goes into the third reading, but I don't think we should rush into the sense that only as soon as it comes into debate, but there are some things we should agree on with other regulations that are in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48030	We have one application for replica, MP Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48031	You're telling your colleagues that this law still wants to sort of recapture the consequences of privatising this land, that's certainly true. And I'd say the consequences of the robbery and the robbery that doesn't show the end and the greatest resistance comes from the administration of those who should have been sanctioned long ago, both criminally and materially. But they're the loudest ones now. So, unfortunately, he also talks through his hotel association and the camping association of Croatia, accusing the state of wanting to fill the budget in this way. Yes, yes! If she was filling them in a legitimate way, we shouldn't have a hack or an increase in VAT today. Because if only they had paid the kuna to the state, or to the former owners, the state would have only had billions and billions of kuna from this base. It's a huge, huge area, and they're afraid that eventually even per kuna they could pay for that land. First of all, in the camps, they're gonna have a lot of concessions. Well, I don't think they should get the concession first of all, for two reasons. 'Cause they didn't pay for what they've been holding back so far. Unfortunately, we're in law '91. the years abolished the criminal act of illegal possession of property held by social property. It was the only crime that crossed over instead of remaining instead of the social state, so they used the situation. Then, I repeat, it should be returned first of all to the land of former owners. They're farthest blocked to dispose of these properties. I will mention again the Puntamics who have nothing to live on, who are illegally using you, and now they are still rebelling for their concession to be of the kuna too. Therefore, first of all, they should be deposited and returned to the former owners, and the state should not sell it to them in any case but to one appropriate concession, but by law, as you colleagues have said to that general.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48032	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48033	Well, the very meaning of conversion and privatisation was to determine property. Starting with the fact that social property isn't property. However, it is the state's fault that it did not regulate that part of the ownership that would have belonged to it after the conversion and privatisation of social property took place. And I don't think we should blame those who used it, and they didn't pay because no one asked them to pay for it. However, the problem is that we have been solving things for too long and at a time of this crisis as it is today, it is no wonder that those who are engaged in tourism are now afraid that they will have far greater obligations to collect services in tourism. However, there is a question of the mind and the issue of the government's economic policy as it will lead and what prices it will establish in such concessions. As is agricultural land. The worst situation that can happen when it comes to ownership defined by the Constitution as property of particular national interest, which is the country, water and forest, that it goes for sale. So it should be a lasting value to generations who come after us and should be used in the most efficient way and not in a way that gets as much into the budget as possible but to give as many economic results as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48034	We're continuing an individual debate. It's Nevenka Marinovic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48035	Thank you, esteemed vice president of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will support this proposal of the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land, unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation, for the first time, for the reason that almost two decades later, it proposes to resolve the status of about 100 million squares of land which, here and today we have heard several times, benefits without compensation. This is, you will agree, a huge development potential that should certainly be launched, and its attractiveness, or the attractiveness of the locations of those areas, should not be specifically talked about. A significant part, precisely those locations, is located in the Zadar County area. And contrary to the general trend in tourism, the profits of tourist companies from this area "Illyria" and "Tourist Hotel" means the companies that use this particular area is important. Although the physical traffic of these same companies was reduced by 6 to 10% last year. This is about land that is owned or used by economic operators in the fields of tourism, campsites and tourist land where all hotels, tourist settlements are built, and is not assessed in the privatisation and conversion process. According to the Ministry of Justice estimates, the total area that has not been entered into the social capital of legal entities is 10 thousand hectares, the most valuable land of which is almost a quarter or 22 million square meters on waste camps alone. And here we've heard here today, and according to estimates, that's over 30 billion kuna. The consequences of this gap so far, as we have heard here today, are the means of direct damage to the state budget, but also the damage to the budget of local self-government units. But the damages are also for legal entities that use them in terms of developing and improving the quality and capacity of the tourism products we know are missing. This updated proposal in the second reading indicates exactly what land is considered to be tourist and unrated building land. The holder of ownership over tourist land is further established depending on the purpose, but also the holder of ownership and co-ownership related to the scope of the social capital assessment in the conversion process. Further concessions are established, as well as the right and conditions for the natural return of the seized land to previous owners. So I'm going to mention here, here's my colleague Ingrid mentioned our Puntamics, and I think this proposal opens up the possibility of solving our Puntamics' problems. This proposal eliminates the largely existing legal gap associated with property and legal status of real estate, which creates better legal certainty in use, opens up the possibility of new investments on that land, but also the legality of the use of these properties, which is extremely important. The tourist land on which the documents of spatial arrangement are designated tourist purposes and land on which construction and tourist buildings are built with this proposal means that they become of interest to the Republic of Croatia and enjoy its special protection. No matter what is in the article. Four, I think that's very good. However, here I point out the paragraph 2 of Article 7 which I consider to be contrary to the principle of Article 4 and that it should be further or completed or simply omitted. I would mention here and the improvements made for this second reading, where the observed observations of meanings are either partially or fully respected and that of individual parliamentary committees from the first reading. Proposal for a Committee on the Justice of the Croatian Parliament amending Article 10(2) concerning the decision on concessions, as well as the improvement of Article 27(2) relating to a better definition of market price. This problem is strategically important for the development of Croatian tourism, for the opening of investment opportunities, but also for the efficient management of space and preservation of natural and cultural tourism potential, and we see that it is really great. I therefore support this proposal to refer the law to the third reading, and this is due to the completion of certain provisions, as already mentioned here and the establishment of the maritime goods border, the real estate records within the borders, the announcement of a new Law on Maritime Good, but also something else. Will or will the application of this law result in the construction of beaches, or by reducing public access to marine goods? I think we need to define ourselves even better in some of the provisions here. Therefore, there is room for further work related to the new Law on the Sea Good, with better compliance with the legal rules, but also related to Article 28 mentioned by her colleague Lovrin. So I support that the law goes into third reading, along with some institutes, but that the concept doesn't violate law enforcement and that the time limit for third reading is as short as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48036	Thank you very much. We have one reported replica. Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48037	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Marinović, I don't know if you missed it by any chance. You mentioned in the Zadar County area that on such land today they do business or are used by the catering company Ilirija and the Tourist Hotel, there is also Borik on that part of the famous Puntamika which we have mentioned several times today owned by Falkensteiner, and that is exactly what happened in that part of what I was talking about, and that means about the practice of the courts that wrote and recorded unconverted parts of the property that did not enter the underlying capital, and today they are registered as the property of a new company. Unfortunately, I am quite skeptical of the various practices of courts and also of the same County Court in Zadar where a book of unassembled properties is conducted, and in the second court there is no booklets and those properties that have entered the underlying capital and have been evaluated. That's why I think it's high time we passed this law that just solved what's already been settled by some laws, but unfortunately, it hasn't been implemented in practice. So we're going back to the question of former owners who have had a lot of debates in the preparation of this bill. I think it's a good deal in the bill now. But this relationship of conversion and denationalization has already been resolved by the Property Act. However, it was simply not an administrative body, and neither did the courts apply nor excluded from the right to convert former social property into property. They did not question whether a return procedure was initiated for these properties and whether they were subject to the right of former owners. That's why I think this law is exactly the right place to solve this issue and make this proposal a quality solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48038	Replica reply, MP Nevenka Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48039	Thank you very much. Here's my colleague, Lovrin, I spoke in the context of the attraction of the location, and in this, we have information that both companies have shown profits. In that context, I spoke. How attractive these companies are, in spite of the trends that are in physical scale, how negative trends were, they had fewer tourists, and they showed profits. So in this context alone, I was saying, the attractiveness of these locations, despite the negative physical volume of arrival, they still make a profit.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48040	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. It's the representative of Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48041	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr Secretary of State. So here's classy to these discussions before, I think it's high time this law was passed, because we heard this morning from 2002 when the IDS had its bill in this assembly until 2004, the fifth one never made it to an optimal proposal, but I believe that today it came close to its optimum. Anyway, it's a big deal. We heard this morning 22 million square meters in camps and 100 million square meters in other tourist land that has not been estimated or entered into the core capital. These unestimated properties are without any legal basis, we heard that multiple times this morning, or they didn't pay any use fee. And somewhere there was even a record of ownership rights to emerging companies and even alienation. When we talk about the fact that they didn't pay anything and they used it without a legal basis, we heard here this morning an exhibit on behalf of Mr. Doric's club that said even a billion kuna we lost annually. And at the same time, we heard another debate so we shouldn't burden our companies and economies with great fees. So there also needs to be some optimum between the price heights. And I believe that the government that said in the articles of this bill will bring an assessment and the price of that land use. And I believe he'll take care of it. So, not only about filling the budget we heard in the last replica of Mrs. Zgrebec, but also about the economic effects that can be multicultural and larger than just filling the budget. So one compromise should be found, and I believe that in the sense of these fees will be taken into account. The fact that all of this has created one legal uncertainty is the inability to further develop the tourism sector and I agree that this problem is necessary. We've seen in the committee reports that a rhetorical question has been raised, is this a solution to ownership-legal relations or is it the end of conversion and privatisation? The answer is both. It is therefore possible to invest in investment, but also to make legal transactions regarding the use of real estate. There's been a lot of misunderstanding, and I'll say it in the Dubrovnik area. We had one big problem that led to court proceedings that were still going on because it was a different court practice. And the most important thing is that there has been a blocking of investments, and hence these companies themselves and tax duties in local self-government. So the law should finally resolve what land is necessary for regular use. This should be clearly defined in order to enable the functionality of the facility but at the same time to prevent abuses of the possible sale of tourist land. Otherwise, because of the unsettled land-book situation, it was difficult to deliver a real land-book excerpt, so that the decisions of the court, the decisions of the body of the administration, the contracts and other documents could be used as evidence of the right of use, and that was the problem. At times, it was connected to the entire complexes of tourist land and the assessment was made only in relation to the buildings and possibly a smaller part of the land while large complexes remained out of assessment. I personally assess a particular problem when assessing the conversion, and these objects were built on a maritime good because some of them were even whole and some of them had property that was on the maritime good. What I think is important and it is mentioned several times this morning that this conflict needs to be resolved, that it should be brought into line with the Law on the Sea Good but that it should be kept in mind very often in the Adriatic and it is about building up, reducing the public space that belongs to the maritime good and that our citizens rightly oppose and I believe that access to the maritime good must be possible for every citizen. It is therefore very important to consider this as well. As for long-term concessions for the disputed land, the establishment of a special fund for the development of tourism infrastructure is to be welcomed, but here is the same question that would be problematicd and I heard this morning from one of the representatives whether the funds made in that fund in a particular area should be returned to that area. We already have one example and this is a monumental rent if you remember where the ratio is 6%:40% and where this part of 60% goes to the state and the state deploys based on solidarity. So, if the money from Dubrovnik's monumental rent is made in particular, it doesn't necessarily mean that it will return to Dubrovnik, it can also go to Vukovar. So we should consider whether we are for solidarity or whether we should return to the area from which the money is earned. Also, it seems to me that this relationship is 60%:40% not the most appropriate when we're already in favour of decentralisation, so we're talking about fiscal decentralisation. I think most of the money should be allocated to local and regional self-government, which means that by the third reading, this parity could be considered at least 50-50 or so. What remains important is the fact that tourist land will become of the national interest of property, that it will not be possible to sell it so easily and that hotel companies will get the ground below without compensation and around their facilities. Everything else is solved by these articles of this law. What is important to point out is that hotels are important to this land because otherwise I repeat there will be no new investments and thus no quality in tourism. This morning we heard that Croatian tourism was not branded. I wouldn't agree with that. I did not want to correct the incorrect quote but it would give a lot of Croatian brands to be listed and I believe that in this sense it should also be possible to allow hoteling as soon as possible before development. I therefore agree that we are going to the third reading but to speed up the process, to get a new proposal back within a minimum of 2 months after consulting with both the hotel and the campers' association. In that sense, I support the third reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48042	Thank you very much. We have a replica again. Mr. Anticevic-Marinovic again.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48043	You mention colleagues that these persons who hold the land did not enter the underlying capital, on no basis did they use it where it was built and on the marine good. And not only that, but they also built certain infrastructures in neighbouring land, and that is why in this law should amend that provision until the final proposal that in no way can they gain in such a way the right of service without compensation because, without anyone's consent, they have done so further, because it is not for an earlier period where the infrastructure existed but in 20 years and the owner has changed. Not only did they not seek anyone's consent, that they also damaged other people's land, that they placed different facilities and infrastructure there. Therefore, they cannot have any benefactory and special privileged position in the Republic of Croatia. Even more, they have more authority than the state itself that has its own property and unfortunately still doesn't know what its property is. You also mention colleagues here and the agency that a part of the collection of concessions would go to the tourism agency, to the tourism fund. However, Croatia has very negative experience especially with funds and agencies. Let's just remember this agency for selling, buying agricultural land where it hasn't even revived, it would have caused a great deal of doubt, and at the end of the day, a lot of damage to the farmers and owners of the land themselves, and we're not saying that the fund itself went for privatisation, so again this unfortunate name of the fund, the source of all this good work and his work over the years was almost and for more than a decade with its illegal anti-legal practice, and even when it was not in the jurisdiction to give such consent, what was particularly apostrophe of colleague Zgrebec, it provided guidance to people to recognise certain elaborates and were accepted, given the agreement that should be done. Therefore, this is due to the recovery of this sinister activity especially during the 1990s.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48044	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48045	I'll start with this last one. It seems to me that the word fund is up here and the agency has been misused. So it happens to be called a fund and it has nothing to do with this fund that you're talking about. So these funds are going to be poured into a special account that happens to be called a trust fund in this law if I get it right. As regards this fund and the famous article 47, I agree that it is necessary to identify and try to resolve their legal system to companies in accordance with Article 47. The Privatization Act. And when you talk about marine goods they couldn't build as you say in the last 20 years because they had to build according to spatial plans, general urban plans according to local building permits. So it couldn't be built as you say in the last 20 years of your own free will, so it had to be built in accordance with spatial-planned documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48046	Thank you very much. We're going back to the individual debate. The word is represented by Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48047	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on tourism and other construction land unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation, as already said during the debate, has several objectives. But first of all, the basic objective of the law is to regulate property-legal relations on tourist land that has not been assessed in the process of conversion and privatisation. Of course, this land, and the data suggests that it is about 100 million square meters, represents a huge economic potential in the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore clear that it is also high time to regulate property-legal relations in that land, to establish the holder of ownership, that offices are related between the users of that land, which are primarily state-owned enterprises that are now operating on that land on the one hand, clearly and on the other hand as owners of that land. As mentioned earlier, there have already been several draft laws that intend to solve this problem on tourist land, but to date no best solution has been found, or rather no law has been passed to address this problem. I therefore welcome the adoption of the law, that the offices are related to all actors in the area, on the one hand, to the tourism companies most interested in regulating these issues so that they can be encouraged and could encourage a new investment cycle on the tourist land on the one hand, on the other hand, the previous owners whose land was taken away, and they are not paid and they expect a fair fee, there was a natural fee at the market price. And on the third hand a clear state which is today's owner, but which is also a legislator and which must regulate the framework for the system to function and to open the perspective for these companies that want to invest in the tourism sector. So here I am, therefore, in support of this law, and clearly there are also observations made on working bodies, and in the debate there are such as to justify that the law goes into third reading. What is important and what I support is also the government's view that this land is declared to be of special interest to the Republic of Croatia and that it enjoys its special protection. But what seems to me to be needed in the new text of the law that will therefore come to these benches, to be strengthened in a certain way, strengthens the provision under which it is determined that this land is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. In fact, from the law itself, I'm reading that this institute that he is of particular interest can be seen in two things. The first thing is that it allows the state to use the right to buy first, and the second thing that also seems very important to me is the fact that the funds that arise from the concession of this land will be the assets and revenues of the Tourism Fund, and then clearly through this fund will be financed by tourism infrastructure. I believe that despite such two fundamental provisions that speak and justify the institute's introduction that this land is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. It seems to me that through the very text of the law, we should think about the possibility that certain investments can be accelerated and then clearly comply with the other laws. First of all, and that was the case, first of all, with the Law on Maritime Good and Marine Ports, which is also in the government's procedure and I think these two laws should be harmonised in that part. But on this point, it seems to me that the law itself provides that the future user of the tourist land on which the camp is occupied may request that it be awarded in a maritime good concession on request. But the same institute does not provide for other tourist land on which other tourist buildings were built, such as hotels and resorts. I believe that, in this sense, the position and those companies that built hotels and tourist resorts should be equal to those of the companies that own the camp and which carry out the camp's activities. It's on one side. But on the other hand, the current Law on Maritime Good and Seaports does not allow, does not foresee, the possibility to grant concessions based on requirements but, as the law stipulates, the Law on Maritime Good and Maritime Ports provides for the only competition institute. It would be good, therefore, before the law comes into the third reading here to the Parliament that both laws, therefore the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports and this law fully comply, clearly because then only in this way can we resolve the fully justified requirements of future concessionaires whose land is concessioned without competition, which is very important, get land in concession, clearly because they pay it according to the average concession fee on maritime land. Because if that were not the case, it would really be a strange possibility for someone to have a camp, and the activity of a camp that is partly carried out on a maritime good would be performed by another company. I also think that before the law comes to the third reading, we should consider a provision that speaks of the signing of a concession agreement between the concessionaires and the government. In the bill itself, it is intended to be a tourism minister, but as the Government prepares and establishes a state property management agency whose most important objectives are to register ownership of the property that is state-owned and so clearly on these 100 million hectares, I think it would be good to consider, in the new bill, that in the name of the state, contracts with concessionaries are being prepared by the agency, or its director, because it will practically be available, because the agency will actually have all the information on state property and so on the data on tourist land. And so I think it's a real institution that should, on behalf of the state, co-response with concessionaries on tourist land. I also welcome the establishment of the Tourism Fund in this proposal. I think that the establishment of the Tourism Fund, as Article 15 provides, and then by the fact that the funds that the fund will be made available are intended for the construction of tourism infrastructure. First of all, this law is marked by development, not fiscal. The point is, therefore, that the funds collected from the tourism activity and returned to that activity, not that the state, through the collection of these funds into the state budget, will be allocated to other items in the expenditure side of the state budget. I would also like to refer to Article 33, which speaks and stipulates the right to buy the Republic of Croatia and to that part of the tourist land which, under this law, belongs to the units of local self-government in the part where the land and citizens do not serve as functional or regular use of concessionaries. I don't think there's any need on that land to introduce the right of the first purchase of the Republic of Croatia, but primarily the unit of local self-government. I do not see what would be a particular reason for the former owners who have been granted the right of ownership and who have been compensated with... parcels or land, now this land when sold, sold to the state rather than units of local self-government which has a gro or a very large majority of that land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, here is the next debate, and until the next draft of the law, think about it so that clearly better and better quality of land in that area, where it is, as I said, in most parts of it, belonging to the ownership of units of local self-government. And I also agree with all those who, therefore, said that more detailed arrangements should be made for the regulation of land used for the regular use of the building. I think it's very important. This should be brought into line with the Ministry of Protection and the Environment, clearly because there are a huge number of different ways of using this land on the ground, and I think it should be very precise to avoid abuse. But how on the other hand, the concessionaries wouldn't be damaged. So here I finally want to highlight the importance of this law, the importance of its adoption. I agree that as soon as it comes back to the third reading and that here then it solves both the issue and the holder of ownership, but also enables the concessionaries to build new tourist facilities on the Croatian Adriatic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48048	Thank you, colleagues, Bacic. If I'm not mistaken, this was your first talk from the constituency benches. It is up to representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48049	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. They say the measure of success or failure is not whether we have a big problem to deal with, but whether we have the same problem we had last year. And we've had this big problem for 20 years. I am indeed giving congratulations to all those who have dealt with this demanding, extremely demanding job, complex, professional and which is of particular national interest because it covers unresolved problems for 20 years in the area of strategic economic tourism. I'm also glad that because of all these comments, it goes into the third reading, it really needs to be systematically prepared. If justifications for why this has not been resolved so far could also be sought, there could be justifications for that from the periods of war of independence, transition processes, transition difficulties. But also once again because many say it's easy to make capitalism socialism. It's like taking an egg and making a eggs. Simple nationalize everything and say this is ours. But out of socialism to make capitalism, it's like trying to make an egg out of a eggs. And the elaborates on conversion and privatisation are really if he was doing it a little more seriously and studied looked more like eggs than eggs, or how he likes to call some coloquial as cabbage. In the drafts on the conversion and privatisation of social enterprises were written by hand, the amounts were changed, the methodology was not applied uniquely, the claims of all non-payments for more than 60 days did not enter the assessment of the value of the underlying capital, and the debts all reduced the underlying capital. It is therefore especially important to commend that we are finally ahead of such a strategic project to complete this problem. But no wonder, I have to take this opportunity to say why, there was a lot of Croatian privatisation fund. He had reasons for resuscitation and he didn't bring them. But no wonder that for years and years, regardless of the government and the authority of the Vice-President of the Privatisation Fund, he was a person of ten years who had not even passed a judicial exam. And it's really time to stop, for 20 years, someone's been using the value of somebody else's real estate with no charge, no rent, no concession, no rent. And as much as that would be, I wouldn't get into that judgment, but all of it had to be even taxed. If the state hadn't charged anything, she had a so-called. indirect opportune costs because she missed income. But I will concentrate only in the section on articles 18, 19 and 25, which defines the land that is beneath the facility and has not entered the underlying capital or entered the underlying capital. I would also like to ask for special attention from Mr. Secretary of State, as the same way regulates both of them, which I do not think is a good solution, that Article 18 says that land that did not enter the underlying capital and is located under the facility belongs to a hotel, a tourist enterprise, but also land that has entered the capital in the same way belongs. I think that what has not entered the underlying capital should be assessed and the underlying capital increased through the renewal of the procedure. Because Article 47. The Law on Conversion and Privatisation says shares, shares, things and rights which are not assessed in the values of social capital are transferred to the Privatisation Fund if there are no grounds for the renewal of the procedure, or if the transfer does not affect the existing technological whole. There is no doubt that the land below the facility is a technological unit and that there are reasons for the renewal of the procedure and that, at market price today, the basic capital for... that land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The co-owners share something when they own what they share. Sharing land that hasn't entered the core capital is sharing with someone who doesn't own it. The hotel doesn't own what didn't enter the underlying capital. He's only in possession, 20 years in possession without any compensation, and the property with the property has nothing to do with it. For those who do not, who need it, are powerless or not able to provide themselves is a good thing to give, it is good to help, it is humane help, and we live in a Catholic country, it is also Christian, but in this part only that applies to Article 18 when it does not enter the basic capital to give to those who already have a good solution. And as a rule, that's them, here we heard today in the debates the owners of investment funds, as some call tycoons or banks, but I already said that banks are no longer owners, but they sold it long ago, when they acquired property for a few thousand marks and sold for tens of millions of marks, only two banks had 112 in Croatia seem to me to have tourism companies in their possession, and with a third 135, 136, and they sold it all and earned it on it, hundreds of millions of marks. Therefore, I think that this is an extremely important law which is of interest to the future of the Croatian economy, which will affect the future of the social climate in Croatia, and therefore I only ask that special attention be paid to that part of the land under the facility that did not enter into the assessment of social property, because after the adoption of this law I think we should all feel good, but if someone really gets something that doesn't belong to it I wouldn't feel good. Here we've heard so much there, if there are pressures, there are no, there are certain interests. So the pressure is by myself by coming up with certain associations reporting through the media and asking to get rid of it in an acceptable way. Appreciateing all this, and mostly professional and scientific articles that have been published on this subject, and I have studied thank God for the last 15 years of this problem, I think we should consider everything, but that protection of ownership and national interest should be put first. And if we succeed, then we will have a great law, a great framework that will resolve this long-standing 20-year agony. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48050	We have an application for two replicas. The first one is representative Zeljko Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48051	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear fellow Maric, you have made an excellent finding of the essence of the problem over the past 20 years, but let me comment once again, it is never too much to conclude, and I was myself an actor in the economy at the time of the topic related to tourism in the postwar, the first post-war time of the 1990s when you see a part of the hotel houses then still in the bulk of the state owned we find the situation that had no pay, that the competent banks that could have followed it then, but also that it was a convenient space for... as loans and then business arrangements which were not only financial, but also financial loans, which even had the consent of then segments related to the agreements of the state according to specifically Croatia and Germany, and at that time came goods from abroad which were extremely expensive and which they actually wanted to take, because other than that financial part of the goods were a condition for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That kind of credit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then they wanted them as companies who were in charge and who didn't have... The funds were simply forced to do so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After that, I just... By returning these loans, these legal persons, not only banks but also other legal persons, became very quickly in one part and owned and co-owned by hotel houses and for extremely small money and money, came to enormous value in shares, which today when we look at a 20-year-old distance later talk about how at that time almost without money could have been brought into a property situation that we can almost no longer help ourselves in today's part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Hopefully, I believe that even through the adoption of this law, we will no longer be able to bring it back in some way, but it is convenient to find that it is large assets and a lot of capital, and thus also entering into the property of the hotel companies at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48052	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48053	Comrade Turk, you mentioned the excellent part that was in time, in '93, '94, '95. The years when tourism companies were indeed in bad situations, destroyed, exiles and refugees were placed there, and many abused the unfortunate role of Croatia, as well as tourism companies. I'm not going to talk about the legality and illegality of conversion and privatisation, but that there was an amoral progress in it. And in this acquisition of ownership of tourist companies, the amoral preceded. To force companies to commit themselves and aimed at loaning them a salary of 10, 20 or 100 thousand marks to account for interest of 40 to 60%, conditioning with the delivery of goods that you said from abroad through their grandsons, children or uncles' companies at 30, 40% higher price, investing even by approving investment loans provided that the son, who opened up from the bankers' company through it, would refurbished hotels and thus brought everything into hotel companies into a very awkward situation, and then when they did, they came across real buyers and sold for 10, 15 or 20 times the price. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48054	Second replica, colleague Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48055	Thank you very much. Mr. Maric, somehow rightly, from the point of view of general justice, you're troublesome by the question that the land under the building in the ground floor gets some legal entity that isn't in the conversion and privatisation paid for nothing. That may be unfair to those who have paid. But there is one legal saying beati positionis so always those who hold something in possession are in a better position than those who require something, and it does not hold it in possession. What do you want? This would in some way bridge the principle of the Law of Property in Real estate, so land and buildings, because in legal traffic it cannot transport a building that has been converted and entered without the land on which it was built. Of course, it could be talked about an assessment and capitalisation with as much as it has not been converted, but we do know that according to the Law on Commercial Companies, a decision on capitalisation must be made by the Assembly. The Assembly is the owner of this new company and when the Assembly wants to make a decision on the recapitalisation where the state would enter with the value of that land, of course, in practice if the price is at the price at which it was at the time of the assessment in the conversion process. But if the state said so today is worth a lot more, today it is market value of course that assembly will never make a decision on such capitalisation because then the state would enter its ownership structure with the amount for which the owner certainly does not want it. In this way, it tries to resolve the general principle of unity of real estate, land and buildings, but in that minimum amount that is necessary, and for all of this, of course, it provides for either purchase or the right to build or concession, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48056	Replication response, counsellor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48057	My colleague Lovrin, and I admit that I'm a little inferior when it comes to this subject just from a legal point of view, that's also logical. But not to speak only from morals, even if article 47 is read. The Law on Conversion and Privatisation also provides for the renewal of the procedure for what has not entered the core capital and which is not assessed in the process of converting and privatising social enterprises. And that's what happened in practice. I personally did it on the orders of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. The assembly also made decisions to increase core capital, and the Croatian Privatisation Fund became the owner of an increased core capital. If this assembly did not bring the Croatian Privatisation Fund, it threatened to sell it directly to a third party at a bid. And that would solve the problem. But I don't think anyone who's already got it, and you know, in one audit, it says they didn't need any money to buy a hotel. When a man reads that, he feels really bad. And now to give it to the beach in Dubrovnik a thousand or 5,000 squares worth invaluable, simply legally determined and it belongs to it, we give it to it. I can't make peace with those guys personally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48058	Thank you very much. It's an interesting debate, too bad it's just that the sense of morality wasn't when everything that's going on here today was happening. Next is representative Marin Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48059	Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will try briefly on the very proposal for a law, namely the final proposal of the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land, which was not evaluated in the course of conversion and privatisation, to say that it is good that this law is in the second reading. It's the first time in ten years that the law has come to a second reading. Since all the initiatives, and the first one was the 2002 IDS, ended in the first reading and as a rule was it the draft laws or draft laws somewhere in the drawers, probably what was asked and the question why is that? Well, there was no political will. It is a good thing that there is now political will in this House and in the Ministry of Justice, which is the holder of the law itself, and I believe that we will get a quality bill just on the trail of what the Secretary of State said. We're going to the third reading, I'm absolutely in agreement. And let's try all the good initiatives, suggestions, suggestions that have been given and in this debate, which will be given through contacts and with associations. I would especially mention here the Association of Cities and municipalities and the Association of Croatian Countys who also have their own interest in saying something about this bill. Here, I wouldn't talk about the time that went by. Normally there was no political will, but there were also certain interests not to pass such a law. We've heard a lot about interests, so I wouldn't be the one to talk about it. There were certain, so to speak, blockades, which were not possible at the time to clear up. However, I agree with one that the adoption of such a law in the development sense has damaged tourism by the Republic of Croatia. I think the non-determination of the holder of ownership is independent of the article. 47. The privatisation law has made it impossible for particularly honest owners to invest in real estate, i.e. to go into new development cycles that Croatian tourism needs. What is also worth pointing out is that the different court practice that was possible at that time, I would say to one part of the owner, i.e. the owner of these properties to register on these properties, and it is certainly one of the negative trends or one of the negative ones that has happened in the past 20 years that someone without paying something, means whether it's land in camps or other building land, acquired the right of ownership just by the court's decision. Which, in my opinion, is legally inadmissible because it was worth it. 47. The privatisation law that speaks of all that is not privatised is the ownership of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Here, I'd like to make two concrete suggestions to consider. And that's what I'm talking about. 23rd and Art. The 15th final bill itself. Have them consider it by the third reading. And the first part would refer to the article. 23. where other building land is mentioned and where land is said to have not entered the conversion, i.e. privatisation, ownership of the Republic of Croatia. I personally think about the trail of those discussions about decentralisation that should finally be understood, we here in the Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia that is most useful, most likely to leave this land to units of local self-government, means to municipalities, cities where this land is located. We all swear to decentralisation and here we see a small centralization in action, or doing nothing to keep the existing state. I don't think that's good, I think today we have a situation where the state of everything and everything becomes a narrow throat and the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the orderly management of state property, tomorrow it's going to be an agency. If we want an economic even development, if we want to help, and just the most encouraged by the municipalities and cities is whether it's entrepreneurship, whether it's any kind of resource orientation, I think it would be most useful to make this property belong to local self-government units. Because this is precisely what we all want together, for the Republic of Croatia to become one decentralised republic and on the other hand, that everyone is responsible, and that is the municipality, city, county, etc. and the state normally as a whole for the development of its end. And Article 15, which speaks of the distribution of funds, has already been spoken. Here it is predicted in the final proposal of the law that the relationship should be 60% in favour of the Republic of Croatia, 40% in favour of municipalities, cities and counties. I think that relationship should be reversed. So municipalities, cities and counties should get 60%, the Republic of Croatia 40%. Why am I saying that? Once again on the trail of the discussion on decentralisation, but also on the trail that these funds need to be directed right into the areas where they have been achieved. We don't see why funds are collected from these environments and sent to the Tourism Development Fund and then returned to those units of local self-government. I think it's a job that's unnecessary, that it's just such a relationship, and the funds are intended, they're meant to be used only for tourism infrastructure and to strengthen the reference base, so that in that part it would be useful to use those funds, to make the schedule of those funds the other way around. It means 60% belongs to municipalities, cities and counties, which means every 30%. That would be somewhere on the trail of a bill by the tourism ministry about two, a year ago. Here's my thanks. I suggest that these proposals be made on Article 23, paragraph 15, because I think they are useful to all of us, especially in this economic crisis. I think that just one small shift towards decentralisation, through the transfer of responsibilities to municipalities, cities and counties, we can make one economic progress, not only in the development of tourism, but in general in the development of entrepreneurship, agriculture and economy in each segment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48060	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. It's representative Nadica Jelash's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48061	Dear Vice President, State Secretary with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Therefore, the subject matter of this law is tourism and other building land which remains unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation. As we have already heard on several occasions today, this is about a hundred million squares, because this is the information that the Ministry of Justice has come up with with knowledge and assessment. Because there's obviously no exact information about it. So it's actually impossible to estimate how clearly the country's extremely bad master has so far been lost by using this extremely valuable natural resource by some other entities and making profits, so they profited. How much money ended up in private pockets, not for the benefit of all Croatian citizens and how many other non-guarantee economic operators and who did not use such a long-standing privilege were actually in an unequal position compared to those first ones. This law should resolve this situation to a certain extent by establishing ownership, i.e. co-owners over tourist and other building land. Although this law settles some more questions, such as: the issue of award of concessions but also the question of the return of the seized land during the South-Communist rule, but of course only in cases which have not yet been legally completed, this law can in fact be primarily characterised as a finale, i.e. a point on and a process of conversion and privatisation that began in 1991. Therefore, it is good that this law goes into third reading to remove the legal vacuum currently existing in relation to the ownership and legal status of the land concerned and to establish legality, i.e. legal certainty in the use of these valuable properties. Because all of this should ultimately be a function of encouraging investment activity on tourism and other building land as foreseen by the Government's 2009 and 2010 Action Plan of Croatian Tourism. What I am personally dissatisfied with, and this dissatisfaction has been expressed before me by some other MPs, is the ratio of the share of the concession fee on the land on which the camps are located. In fact, this law provides for this ratio to be 60% in favour of the state budget, i.e. the state, and 40% to go to local and regional self-government units. Since the funding from the concession must be used exclusively for the needs of the development of tourism infrastructure and for the preservation of the tourist resource base, I think, therefore, I agree with the representatives who have spoken in the same way, that this ratio should be reversed. So, that the state should go 40 and local self-government units 60%, because it is undeniable that local self-government units are far better and more precise than the state knows what they need most in this regard and what they have predicted in their development plans. In addition, this rate of distribution of concession fees would be at least a small step towards decentralisation. Here's a mouthful of stories about decentralisation, and it's on this example that the state continues to adopt a larger part of the concession cake. This raises another question, which is how to control the use of concession fees, since part of the fee paid by the units of local self-government is paid into the budget, and that part of the compensation to go to the state should be paid to a special tourism fund. But since nowhere in the law is indicated when this fund should be established and that part of the fee will actually be paid into the state budget. What would not be good is that the funds paid are used to patch up budget gaps, because in this way the essence, i.e. the basic intention of this legislative provision, would be fully played out. Finally, given the fact that a new Law on the Sea Good has not yet been adopted, a particularly important issue relating to the operationalisation of this law is the issue of the protection of maritime goods on the one hand, but also the possibility of using property built on the other hand. According to this law, if the camp or part of the camp is located on a maritime good commercial company, it may request a concession on maritime goods in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, so that a concession contract can also be obtained and the right to use and build buildings in the camp. So the question arises whether this will result in us not having secured access to the beaches because companies will be building on them, which has not been a rare case so far and which has actually caused major problems on the ground. So I support that this bill goes into third reading so that all these third-reading dilemmas will try to resolve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48062	Thank you very much. One replica representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48063	Thank you. An esteemed colleague said the state is an extremely bad master. I'd say the state is a disastrous master. I will give the most spectacular example that has nothing to do with tourist land, but it is always current, especially at this time the current problem of the former PIC administration building Đakovo, Đakovština d.d. in the bankruptcy that the state has taken over in its possession and has been staring empty and failing for ten years, although there is a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2002 and 2003 on the relocation of all state offices and institutions in that building. Another example of the disastrous management of this policy is the work of the Central Agency for Real Estate Management of the Republic of Croatia where many units of local self-government have adopted spatial plans, general urban plans where agricultural land must pass through law enforcement into the ownership of a unit of local self-government as it is now located in the construction area. From here, only for the example of the city of Djakova in 2006, the Office for Real Estate Management of the Republic of Croatia has not yet submitted a proposal for a decision to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and thus hinders the development of the entire unit of local self-government. At the same time, it is also related to the development of continental tourism in the area of Đakova and also in the area of Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48064	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48065	Yes, colleague, you've been taking examples from your environment about how the state is a bad master and I've actually wanted to stress about this very law the fact that this is about a hundred million square meters of tourist and other construction land which so far has not been resolved by the state's status. And that's why it's good, although with great delay, that now through this law, it's trying to solve it, better ever than ever.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48066	Thank you very much. For individual debates it is up to MP Vlatko Podnar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48067	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Today, when discussing this Law on Tourism Land, or unprivatised, I would have to go back a little in history, that is, the way land was managed up to twenty years ago, especially in this particular area, I am thinking about forests and forest land. Just the camps and tourist resorts that were formed in the 1960s, the 1970s were formed primarily on nationalized land, whether in the arondated, commassed etc. but also on the social land and on the social land where the forests and forest land were located, just as the camps did the greatest work on such land because they were suitable for the development of the tourism camp. What was usually regulated by then self-government agreements that had been managed by the forests at the time and that they were concerned about the arrangements of these camps, etc. They also took care of the woods at the time. In this way, forests were financed in part from the maintenance of the land, as well as from tourist workers and various societies at the time also benefited. Today, this bill provides that some 2 000 200 hectares of such land, or 22 million square meters, is to be put into co-ownership, means part of those companies that were created by conversion and privatisation and part that the governments of the co-owned state. Also in other tourist land, which is not the happiest solution for the simple reason where it is not privatized, so it did not enter the privatisation process of the whole land and depending on the size of the particle it is now questionable whether it is one hectare or a particle can be 100 hectares depending on how it is introduced into the catastrus and on the part can be a co-ownership of a few hundred square meters and now with the foundation of co-ownership on a large plot which is wrong. What I think and why it didn't go over the most in conversion and privatisation is precisely because it's less and the woods, and I also emphasized it on the board and mentioned to the woods it's mastered in accordance with the Law on the Forests. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The forest law tells what The forest law tells who rules those woods. If this is state-owned land, then they must rule the Croatian forests with that land, that is, with that forest. Therefore, we bring together one law and another law that is lex specialis one about forests, this about tourist land and I would ask the promoter until the third reading to think about it. And another article on the Law on the Forests, which is an article 57, which speaks about the ministry and which speaks precisely about the touristic purpose of a particular land where then Croatian forests have the right to grant concessions or the right to service on such land. For this reason, I ask more promoters to think a little bit and see the possibilities, because I say one and the other are a lot of specialis, but this is primarily because forests and forest land are owned by the Republic of Croatia on land owned by masters exclusively by Croatian forests, unless otherwise prescribed, but these must be other conditions which, under the Law on Forests, have the right to rule. There's only that much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48068	Thank you very much. Last reported for discussion, MP Dino Kozlevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48069	Dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll try to say a few things, take it out without saying it again. But we will not have to repeat ourselves. First of all, I'm pleased to discuss this law. Maybe the first time I feel like we're all really working together and we're proposing and we're taking part in a debate with the only intensity, which is to bring.../The speaker off./... Something's wrong with this, I'm sorry. To pass a law that will allow us to achieve the goals ahead of us. We agree that this law should have been passed long ago. I think that here's an individual, to say the exceptions, but very rarely in today's debate that mentioned years and guilt, we have to say if it's 2002, 2004, '95, but today we're in 2010 and we're never too late to do it. However, it is an exceptional legal act that it has and is related to certain and negative actions that have taken place in our privatisation. We should certainly have sensitivity, and I think we have it in place to pass that law. That law should not allow for a new injustice, should not, and should not say legal, even if the legions of artis provide something that at a certain point during the conversion and privatisation was wrong and I think we care very much about doing so. So at the beginning, I support all those who have proposed to go into third reading because the law should be passed, though worse than any one, but this law must be as precise as possible, as high-quality and out of it as possible, and I think it will be very difficult to satisfy everything. The fact is, and we all agree here, and for the first time, that we need financial resources and that these financial resources, community, state, holder of the owner, that is, we all have to collect those financial resources together, 20 are standing somewhere, and we haven't charged them. We're in a situation where we need to charge those funds. Privatisation and we have to say very briefly that what was happening, especially in the tourism sector, was deeply unfair if we were to do justice, and I think that justice must be our first priority, it was deeply unfair. Tourist companies have developed in the old system in the '80s in social property, in a plan-based economy, but these tourist companies are usually then built, which is where we all agree. They were built by the contribution of employees or workers who worked in tourist companies, as well as by the contribution of local and wider communities. All forces, especially in coastal tourism, are directed to the development of a tourist company as one of the significant sources of income. I must remind myself that these workers that we talk very little about in tourist companies, because it has been 20 years already, those who have been in power today are more than a bit interested in what is happening, that they have also separated then it was called the rest of the pure income or what was called. However, this is also invested in these tourist facilities. It came in '91, '92, '93, privatisation, privatisation and robbery, which we all agree on where the targets came from, there was an accident, there was a war that hit us both by tourism companies and these workers, these people made their humble contribution during that period just in the management of exiles, refugees who were. We heard how the banks acted, or how the owners of the money they had at that time acted. Therefore, tourism firms in deep injustice, in this period with financial resources, high interest rates, we heard before, and we know that they had to buy more expensive products conditioned, etc., everything that was happening, were brought into the situation that they were practically taken over, not bought as a rule, but taken over for the sake of these debts and for all this was done. Therefore, the privatisation was also unfair. The banks are now owners, investment funds that are largely foreign-owned, part of the tycoon. Thus, for 20 years the new tenant, the new owner does not pay for something to pay. We are the owners, the state is the owner, or the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are the owners. That, we agree, needs to be changed by the third reading. I hope we can install everything that's been suggested today. What we need to say is that it is about distribution and concessionaires, that is, we have to keep in mind that today are diagrams, there are tourism companies, these are legal persons operating on the premises, meaning not only on the coast but on the whole of the Republic when we talk about tourist land, but the same applies to building land, i.e. the rest of the building land, and these are the entities that depend on today and economic growth. We are full of the mouth of tourism, although many times in the making of regulations, the adoption of all that and the taking of general views, and the strategy of tourism that is not defined, we have shown in practice that we really and essentially want to help this branch, just as much as it could bring it back and give it back to the benefit of the whole community. Therefore, the introduction of this fee, or concession, must also have sensitivity, but since the holder of ownership is known to anyone who uses something, we live in such a system where private ownership is sacred, therefore everyone must pay for some use. I agree that it must pay and that we must find the modes not to cause problems, not to create problems for the tourist economy, but we must also make sure that this tourism economy works in a narrow and wider environment and that the community has an obligation and should make it possible for the economy to develop. Therefore, the concession should be introduced, the law should be passed, it should be improved and it should be started to charge for what we did not unfortunately charge for 20 years. What I'd say is just about the distribution. The 60-40 split that is proposed I know that money today is the thing that we all need together. However, the distribution and this is my proposal must be turned in the worst case 60% in favour of units of local, or regional self-government, and 40% in favour of the state. Whether it will be a fund we do not know, when it will be formed, how it will work, by which criteria etc. precisely because we have not defined the strategy of tourism where we will invest these funds, etc. We said in infrastructure, so to create conditions where and how. Therefore, my proposal is that 60% is precisely doing what I have cited from the entire historical sequence of development and economic branches when I talk about tourist land also enable units of local and regional, or regional self-government to manage that money. We think that money is being used because there are assumptions in infrastructure local, wider. So, municipal, city, county. The needs are very high. Today in Istria, which is a highly developed tourist region, we also have unfalted roads and we have no opportunities and no money regardless of what the general belief is that money has. But I have to say as much as it does, which contributes especially to the state budget that they return crumbs with which they cannot be made. This is one way to enable a local self-government unit chosen by the will of citizens, which is an expression of the will of citizens to manage these funds. As for the 60-40 ratio in favour of local self-government units. It is also necessary to find the possibility that the building land, in particular which is normally located in the edges of the settlement, etc. allow units of local self-government to be able to achieve their objectives in building infrastructure and all that is needed because today only in ownership and ownership of ownership, I am only talking about technology wasting a lot of time, and I am not talking about everything that in the transfer where individual parcels are or will be owned tomorrow by the Republic of Croatia should be able and owned by units of local self-government to achieve their objectives. In such a way we will all be together and I end up protecting the interest of the Republic of Croatia, and the interest of the Republic of Croatia is that this value is invaluable almost regardless of how much it is worth today on some market basis that we all protect this value together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48070	Replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48071	Thank you. The esteemed colleague mentioning the local self-government unit at one point related to this distribution also mentioned regional self-government, i.e. regional self-government, and not that I did not get it well, but I am afraid that then this proposal, which he made 60:40% in favour of local self-government units, does not mean further division between local and regional self-government. I've now received the minutes of the Committee on Local Self-Government where, I don't know why it didn't enter the minutes, where I proposed an amendment on the allocation of these funds just in view of both local self-government and regional self-government. But also the Republic of Croatia. And that proposal went to 50% of local self-government units, 25% of regional self-government and 25% of the state. So I'd like to ask here the legislator of this bill to consider this proposal, given that we have one such distribution in the country's agricultural land as well. So, first of all, this would allow for stronger development and a somewhat decentralisation process and the possibility of tourism development in local self-government units. First of all, I mean the continental part of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48072	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48073	Yes, my colleague Vinkovic, yes, I told him at worst. At worst, I support this absolutely your proposal. Gro resolving the conditions of infrastructure, from other conditions, is currently happening at the level of local self-government, or regional self-government. Therefore, we have infrastructure problems. They cannot be limited to the area of a small municipality today by volume or city, but they are both a county problem and a state problem. And just like that, but a lot of problems like we do and the policy that we all agree on in this assembly of decentralisation of the state, the administration on the line of subsidiarity, the gross problem is solved at a lower level, the grotesque problem is more efficient, faster without red tape solving at a lower level. Therefore, local and regional self-government should be allowed with full confidence to manage the financial resources that the law defines as being invested in. Because today is also an emergency, an example of emergency care, solving health care for tourists. This solves the meanings of this area and these are all the conditions that are needed for tourism and for the income of that money to be directly in the function of tourism. You today have problems where during the tourist season and tourist employees and tourist companies are unhappy with the upgrade that is provided to them at the levels of cities and municipalities and county, where cities, municipalities, counties are responsible and have no financial means to resolve it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48074	Thank you very much. The closing word is given by the proposing representative, State Secretary Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48075	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. I thank everyone for the debate. Indeed, all these suggestions that are commendable at this session will be discussed by the third reading, and since the basic concept of the law that I see from all the discussions has received support until the third reading we will discuss all these details, we will discuss and we will analyse everything that has been said on the committees. We will have further discussions with all interested associations and we are very, very soon in the third reading and I will see you again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48076	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. At the same time, we're finishing the morning session. We continue at 15.00 hours with the Final Bill on Payments in Local and Regional, or Regional Self-Government. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48077	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land, unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation, was a second reading. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. First, we will vote on the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Tourism and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, which reads: "The final proposal of the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land, unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation, will be carried out on the third reading." During the debate, a representative of the applicant accepted that this legislative proposal would go into third reading. Who is in favour of the proposal to conclude the two parliamentary committees that the applicant accepts? Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The conclusion was accepted unanimously with 105 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48078	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue today's meeting of the Croatian Parliament and this point - Final bill on wages in local and regional (regional) self-government, second reading, P.Z. No. 415 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and you have received the proposal in boxes. This bill will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, as well as the Committees on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government and the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. You received reports from the board at the session. The government has submitted amendments and they become an integral part of the final draft law. The amendments were also submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government and the Club of Representatives of the HDSSB. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Mr Edmond Miletic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48079	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. You are facing the Final Bill on Salaries in Local and Regional Self-Government, and when drawing up this final proposal, you take into account the comments and suggestions made at first reading. Also, when drafting this final bill, associations of municipalities, associations of cities, Croatian County Community and trade unions of state and local officials and tenants were consulted. The main comments made in the first reading were that such a regulation should specify the criteria for determining wages, that collective bargaining should also be allowed, that is to say, to limit the mass of wages in relation to the mass of income according to the budget of the units of local self-government. The following are also modified provisions in relation to first reading. So when we talk about executive leaders in units of local and regional self-government, then their pay is determined in a way that multiplys the coefficient and base, of course, the addition to the internship. But by paying certain leaders in local self-government units or in the counties, they cannot go beyond a certain limit compared to certain categories of government officials. As far as officials are concerned, restrictions are also laid down. The collective bargaining of the basis is possible, and the coefficients could move within a certain range of one to six, according to the decision of the representative body of the units of local or regional self-government. This law, this final proposal introduces some new developments in relation to first reading, which are budgetary constraints. It is proposed that the mass is paid in units of local and regional self-government cannot amount to more than 20% of the unit's operating income achieved in the previous year. Furthermore, it is also proposed for all those units receiving any assistance from the state budget, that they should be based, in relation to officials, on whether or not the basis and coefficients are determined by them as they are in the state service. In view of the debate and the committees, the Government has proposed certain amendments and interventions in Articles 3 and 10 and concern the way the decision on coefficients is taken. Therefore, it is adopted with a mandatory proposal, i.e. the proposal of the executive leader. Which means the representative body of the unit is attached to the proposal. The proposal mainly refers to the possible malicious behaviour of the representative body when determining the salaries of executive leaders. Therefore, in this case, the Government considers this to be sufficient guarantee, as the representative body is bound by the proposal of the Executive Chief. So, the mayor, the mayor or the mayor. Another amendment submitted by the Government to clarify the clarity of this text is that Article 14 clearly states that those funds transferred to local and regional self-government units for the salaries of officials who received those units in that jurisdiction, hence building permits and the like, are to be included in that mass of operating income. From this text, from the final proposal that came, this was not clearly stated enough. With this regulation, this law does not constitute an automatic basis for the increase of wages in local (regional) self-government units as indicated. Of course, each unit must behave within its budget. If there are any frames in relation to these new frames, it can be done of course, but that does not mean an automatic increase in the degree of force of this law. Furthermore, this law does not address the systemic issues of the relations of executive leaders and representative bodies such as this, of course, that certain misunderstandings in this communication can also occur through the conduct of this law. But this is certainly not a regulation that will address the systematic issues of the relationship between the representative body and the executive head. The government proposes that, with these amendments, you accept this final proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48080	I thank Mr. Secretary of State. I'm asking the representatives and the committee's reporters if they'll take the floor? Here is on behalf of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, Chairman of the Committee, Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48081	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the 42nd session held on 3 February, the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government discussed the Final Proposal for the Law on Payments in Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government as a home labour body. Following the opening explanation of the applicant's representatives, the committee members supported the adoption of the law in the debate, with the following opinions, objections and proposals being made. The opinion was given that when drawing up a final proposal for this law, there is no respect for the code of consultation with the interested public, in the procedures adopted by the law, other regulations and acts, as regards the deadline for showing the public concerned, and the conclusion of the Economic and Social Council, which provides for the harmonisation of salaries in local and regional (regional) self-government with salaries in the state administration and public services. In the opinion of the section of the Committee of Resolution proposed by the final proposal for this law, they do not sufficiently respect the specificities, needs and budgetary possibilities of local and regional (regional) government units. In this respect, the proposal was made for the Committee to propose to the Croatian Parliament that the final proposal of the Law on Salary in Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government should be carried out in order to improve the same reading and to analyse the fiscal and social effects of this law. That proposal did not receive the required majority. In relation to the solutions proposed in Article 3 of the final draft of the law, an opinion has been adopted to amend this article in order to establish a coefficient for the payment of salaries of mayors, mayors and municipal mayors and their deputies by a decision of the representative body of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government in which they act and that the basis for the payment of the mayors, mayors and municipal mayors and their deputies is determined by the decision of the mayors, or mayors and municipal mayors. In relation to the solutions proposed in Article 10(1) of the final draft of the law, an opinion has been made whereby the coefficients for the account of the salaries of officials and deputies in the administrative departments and services of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government should be determined by the mayor, mayor, or chief of staff, and not by the representative body of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government. In the light of the solution proposed in Article 11 of the final draft law, an opinion was put forward whereby the salaries of the head of the management department or of the service should be determined in an amount not covered by an increase in the work experience. On the other hand, the proposed Article 14 considers that the revenue generated from the basis of the additional share in income tax and the aid for balancing the financing of decentralised functions should be included in the mass of remuneration appropriations for employees in units of local and regional (regional) self-government. As regards Article 15, an opinion has been put forward to enable the local self-government units receiving ongoing aid amounting to less than 10% of the mayor’s salary, mayor and mayor’s incomes to be determined in the amounts set out in Article 4 of the final proposal of this law. In relation to the solutions proposed in Article 16, the opinion under which paragraph 1 of that article should be amended in order to establish that units of local and regional (regional) self-government, which as end-users provide State budget assistance, the division of the Ministry of Finance in an amount that does not exceed 10, 20 and 30% of the operating income may increase the base for the account of employees and subsistence salaries relatively to the proportion of their own incomes in the total operating incomes of local self-government units. In relation to the solutions referred to in Article 26, the opinion under which the said article should be deleted, given that any law may be amended, harmonised, supplemented or put out of force, and therefore there is no need for a specific provision to prescribe it in this law. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Payments Act in local and regional (regional) self-government with the following amendments. Article 3 is amended and reads, and according to the amendment proposed by the Committee, the coefficients for the calculation of the salaries of mayors, mayors and municipal mayors and their deputies would be determined by the decision of the representative body of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government in which they act. The basis for calculating the mayor's salary, mayor and municipal chief and their deputy is determined by the mayor's, mayor's or municipal chief's decision. The proposed amendment therefore proposes that the coefficients for the billing of salaries of mayors and mayors and mayors shall be determined by the representative body on the proposal of the executive head of those units, and that the basis for those payments shall be determined by the mayor, mayor or mayor of the unit of local self-government. The second amendment to Article 10(1) shall be replaced by the words of the mayor, mayor or municipal chief of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government. The proposed amendment to the coefficients for determining the salaries of officials and deputies would be adopted by the Executive Head, or the College of the Executive Head, rather than by a representative body as proposed in this law. Furthermore, Amendment 3 to Article 11. In Article 11(1) and (2), beyond the word of the administrative department or of the service, a point shall be placed and words shall be added without an increase for the working internship. The proposed amendment lays down that the maximum amount of salary of the head of the management department or of the service shall be determined without an increase for the working internship as provided for in Article 4 of the final proposal of this law and for the maximum amount of the mayor’s salary, mayor or municipal chief. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that In Article 14, the words in the units are replaced by the words in the administrative bodies of the units. The proposed amendment clarifies the application of restrictions on the total mass of funds paid in accordance with the proposal's reasoning, in such a way that this restriction applies to employees only of local and regional (regional) administrative (regional) self-government units and not to all employees of local self-government units. Amendment 5 to Article 15 Article 15 is replaced by the following: The proposed amendment allows units of local self-government receiving ongoing aid of less than 10% of their operating income to determine the mayor’s salary, mayor, or the head of the final proposal set out in Article 4 of this Law. Amendment 6 to Article 16 Article 16(1) is amended as follows: The units of local and regional self-government referred to in Article 1(1). 15. This law shall not exceed 115% of the basis for the calculation of the salary of officials and subsistences in administrative departments and services unless the amount of the current aid exceeds 10% of the unit's operating income, 110% if the basis for the calculation of the salaries of civil servants and subsistence if the amount of the current aid does not exceed 20% of the operating income. 105% of the basis for calculating the salaries of civil servants and deputies if the amount of current aid does not exceed 30% of the operating income and the basis for calculating the salaries of civil servants and subsistence unless the amount of aid exceeds 30% of the business. Reason: The proposed amendment to the local and regional regional self-government units, which, as end-users, receive State budget assistance from the distribution of the Ministry of Finance, but does not exceed 10, 20 and 30% of the operating income, would allow them to increase the base for the account of civil servants' salaries in relation to state and officials and subsistence persons to measure the share of their own incomes to total operating incomes, i.e. the mass of the remuneration funds. Therefore, the Committee unanimously proposes to adopt this law with the adoption of these amendments, which the Committee unanimously established. At the proposal of the Association of Cities, the Community of Countys and Unions of Employees in local and regional regional self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48082	Thank you very much. For other committees? Here is the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Honored Representative and Committee Chairman Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48083	The Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 26th session held on 10 February 2010 the final proposal of the Law on Salaries in the Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 28 January 2010. The Committee shall comply with the provisions of the Article. 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament held the debate on that final draft law as an interested working body. The members of the board are familiar with the written opinions submitted by the National and Local Officials Union and the Deputys of the Republic of Croatia and the Association of Cities in the Republic of Croatia on the final proposal of this law. In the opening statement, the proposer referred to the differences between the solutions that are now proposed in the final draft of the law in relation to the solutions set out in the draft law. Following the introduction of the proposal's representatives, supporting the adoption of this law, the majority of the board members estimated that the same, although temporary, would enable payments in local and regional regional self-government to be arranged on a unique basis. However, the following debate took the view that this law places those units of local and regional self-government in areas of special state care, mountain and mountainous areas and islands, which have received full assistance from the Ministry of Finance, as they do not have the right to be exempt from that basis, but are being adjusted to the salaries of civil servants in those units. In view of the above, it is noted that this status in the Republic of Croatia has cca 215 municipalities and 80 settlements, and that it is those units that are lagging behind in development that are punishable because the proposed solutions under this law will lead to a reduction of salaries in the same and possibly loss of jobs. During the further debate, attention was drawn to the opening of considerable potential for EU funding for regional development by the Republic of Croatia in 2012 and 2013 at 2.8 billion euros. It is pointed out that for the use of these funds, we need to have prepared projects that can only make well-motivated local and regional officials so as not to be able to invest more at national level than we can withdraw them from the European funds for specific local projects. Some members of the board referred to the observations sent by the Association of Cities to the Republic of Croatia, which concerns the fact that this law is adopted hastily, without mechanisms to ensure its implementation. Without previous analysis, without plans to take care of officials and to harm local self-government and that it should be withdrawn from the procedure and reconsidered in the first reading. It is precisely because of the large number of objections made by the National and Local Officials Union and by the Deputys of the Republic of Croatia and the Association of Cities in the Republic of Croatia, as well as other public debate participants, which could not be removed by the submission of the amendment, that the Committee proposes to the Croatian Assembly that in the final proposal of the Law on Salaries of Local and Regional Regional Self-Government to conduct the third reading. However, that proposal did not receive the necessary majority, given that 3 committee members had made their submissions to that proposal, 4 were against and 1 abstention. Therefore, after the debate was held, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy decided by majority vote, 5 for, 3 against, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Salaries in local and regional regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48084	Thank you very much. For the other committees, are there any other rapporteurs? There isn't. Here, then I'm opening a debate on this final bill. We're starting a club debate. The first reported is the HDZ club. On behalf of the club will be spoken by the esteemed representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48085	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the Law on wages in local and regional regional self-government. In fact, the results of the analysis showed that in 2008 out of 576 units of local self-government, 155 or 27 had a mass of money to pay more than 20% of income. Of them 155 units of local 60 units had more than 20% salary and less than 25% of income. And an additional 20% in the range between 25 and 30. In doing so, 6 units of local self-government allocated more than 50% of the funds in 2008. According to the World Bank, the mayor's average salary in Croatia is cca 19,500 kuna, mayor of 24,000, and ministers pay cca 16 thousand kuna. Of the 576 units of local self-government, according to the World Bank, 221 units of local and regional district self-government will have to reduce wage mass, allowing the construction of municipal and social infrastructure and economic development assistance. In particular, strengthening the local economy, such as a low construction that quickly employs workers in the construction of waterways, sewerage, roads, foot-and-mouths, playgrounds, etc. The law prescribes criteria for the determination of salaries and fees, salaries of the mayor of Zagreb, salaries of mayors of the city and city of county headquarters, salaries of mayors and municipal mayors in local self-government units, salaries of mayors and municipal mayors in units of local self-government, salaries of mayors and mayors who have 3 thousand inhabitants, salaries of deputy mayors, deputy mayor of the municipality, and the coefficient for the billing of salaries of officials and deputies in local self-government units. Also determined is the mass of income for employees in units of local and regional self-government that must not exceed 20% of the business unit's income in the previous year reduced for domestic and foreign incomes, aid donations with special contracts, co-financing of citizens for local self-dependence, etc. ... the frameworks are proposed for the salaries of members of the local, regional self-government unit, the upper limit is determined, and at the executive authorities and congregations, or councils, it is to determine the height of the salaries of their officials and subsistences. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48086	Thank you very much. Followed by club IDS esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48087	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. I know that because of this Law on Salaries in the local, regional (regional) self-government, no one in any city will be solidarity with any of our mayors, mayors and mayors, although I can see on the other hand that never our mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors have come closer to each other, have never been more solidarity between themselves. But when it comes to this law that I want to say, nowhere, no one, for the salary of the mayor, the mayor, the mayor won't even strike, will be bound by chains, won't protest in their favor in front of a city, etc. Although everyone will think that even their pay doesn't belong to them as we all think they're all privileged to the MPs, because they have drivers, free phones, offices, cards, etc. I don't care too much about defending them either, but I think at this point we should defend the autonomy of these institutions, whether it's about our municipalities, cities and counties. I think that's the point. And really a man asks himself a question, why should the government determine their salaries. I don't think that makes sense. Whether they are large, about some other occasion, and now I will only make the salary of Mayor Buzet amount to 13 thousand 871 kuna, the salary of Mayor Pazin 12 thousand 236 kuna, Mayor of Istria County about 16 thousand kuna, Deputy Mayor of the County of Istria 12 thousand 800 kuna, etc. And now that I'm kind of going in a row. Here's my mayor's salary in Buzet. There's 13,000 871 kuna. And it's certainly a decent salary. But is that a privileged salary in one Buzet? I'm saying it's not. The small Buzet has only 6 thousand inhabitants, but on the other hand, the city is also in hill-mounted status and will say that from tomorrow, the mayor of Buzet's salary should be around 9000 kuna. Now you're asking yourself, is that a lot or is it small? The average salary of the Republic of Croatia at this time is if I am not mistaken somewhere around 5 thousand kuna. So the city of Buzet would have about, what, 50% higher mayor's salary than the average of the Republic of Croatia. Now, will anyone in the city of Buzet regret that their mayor, Mr. Walter Flego, will have nine thousand kunas to pay? He won't. But at this point, there are about 5% of the unemployed. Is that because of the mayor himself? I don't know, maybe it's in one piece, but that city of Buzet had export per capital somewhere around 20 grand U.S. dollars or $114 million per 6 thousand residents. No city in Croatia can safely get close to those figures. Once Mayor Porec pays 18,500 kuna. The truth here somewhere like the vice president of the government is bigger than the minister. But one Poreč is one quarter of Croatia's tourist income, which is still not the merit of this mayor alone. That's absolutely clear to me. Should a mayor of Buzet now have a higher salary than a minister? Probably not. But considering that this country is leading its first people into bankruptcy and that this political peace on the street is held only every day by all new arrests, and that the mayor of Buzet does everything to help that economy, then I don't know, maybe he should have a really higher salary than any minister or I don't know who, as far as it doesn't make sense, and it doesn't make sense. But let's make fun of it. So logic would be something of a business. The Mayor of Poreč or Buzet certainly won't get an apartment, they're not responsible for the disintegration of public finances, but they all seem to be the environment in which they work, and now we see someone punishing them. It is clear that I, too, believe that the prime minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, the president of the state, the minister, should have a higher salary than the mayor of Buzet. But I repeat, the mayor of Buzet will certainly not harm the economic or not know the interests of the Republic of Croatia, and these others may be able to. Or, for example, The director of the Oilies has a salary of 28 thousand kuna. The law stipulated that it must be at the level of Minister 17 thousand kuna. I think that 4000 euros seems to me to be going to a more retirement internship, for what they do in Ulanik is not an exaggeration. Why isn't it too much? Because the Oil Man has work to do, and until the state stands a single kuna, then let them do what they do in peace, because they deliver for example. One boat for cca 900 million kuna. This is about 180 million dollars, and in other shipyards for 180 million dollars, three such or similar ships are to be delivered. So it's not a problem in those 28 thousand kunas, it's a privatisation problem the next day of that oil man. And let me just say, let's keep it a state-owned company but the salaries of directors, projectors, etc. Don't touch that or any of those shipyards. And that's actually the point. If you had us here who are, for example, one worker who would do twice as much work as the other worker, so I'm sure anyone standing in this assembly of his employee would pay better than the other. And now why don't you deny someone the receipts? Therefore, mayors, mayors, the mayors, should determine their own salary. Clearly, some restrictions should be set, but some autonomy, for example, should be on its own. Or, for example, the tourism ministry's budget. I don't think he's worth more than 200 million kuna this year. For example, it is a budget that is less than the budget of a Mayor of Poreč. And now, why touch Mayor Porec's salary, on the other hand, we know that some vice presidents may have status but do nothing. So why would they have a higher salary than Mayor Buzet, or why on the other hand the directors of these large public systems, for example one Oilman should have a salary less than a minister. I am sure that in Istria, I will make a mockery of mayors, mayors, mayors will work for a minimumer, not because they only take care of workers, they always call for that moment. But I know it's not exactly because it's not a dog barking just for the sake of the village, but also for its own sake, so says the People's Proverbs. But no matter what, I think that criteria should be allowed to autonomously regulate a certain environment. Why did I apostrophe here, for example, my native Buzet or Poreč, and I could have one Rovinj, I could have a Vrsar, Bale, Novigrad, Gračisje, Labin, Nedescina, etc. So because it's a successful environment and then a man asks himself why to limit something in a successful environment. Life on the other side of Poreč may be cheaper than in Zagreb but it is far more expensive than in one Slavonski Brod. The chances of someone doing something with money were far greater in one of the Porečs than in another environment. Okay, but why am I saying all that too? Because this law leads to the local self-government of wages being brought into line with government salaries or officials in local self-government with an official or, as it is said, by the deputy in the state administration. That's the point. And I personally consider it more than one environment such as Istria that it will be a disaster even though the people who work here at my club are warning me the same thing. So we're working for six thousand kuna counseling jobs, I have to find a place here, I have to come here, etc. For example, the same workplace in Istria was paid for 8 or 9 thousand kuna. I also agree that the state administration and I keep saying that when we talk about Istria absolutely when we talk about incomes is underrated. And that's why this state administration doesn't really work the way they want it to. And that's why they need to be paid, and in order for the state to be able to do so, I think we should radically decentralize and leave a whole series of things that are not necessary for the state to behave in its functions to local self-government. In my opinion, that would be the point. The more centralised the state is, the stronger the central government is, but we see that on the other hand, citizens in one country are poorer. The more decentralisation state I think it's middle and richer. And I love to keep mentioning this example from the 74 Constitution when the state of the then republic or the then republic was the most decentralised which in the period from 74 to 90 and in fact the most developed and in fact much that was then created through conversion, privatisation, sale of state or social dwellings later in the 1990s was privatized. So what do we have now? We have a country like we have, among other things, largely because of one centralization. That's what this law was written on my trail. Local self-government in some areas is knowingly punished. I know that the vast majority of citizens if they could listen, watch or follow this debate will clap on the government, but among other things, Croatia is going to sink because of this. So, on the one hand, we will record applause, points for the government, but on the other hand, Croatia will record a fall, at least when it comes to the functioning of certain cities, municipalities and the like. Everyone's scared anyway. I was sitting with the mayor of Buzet yesterday. There's a new brewery to be built in Buzet, says I'm not going to get involved, here's a special agency, let's run all the jobs, God forbid someone's going to press charges against me tomorrow. And such cases, we release a little Buzet with 6 thousand people, I claim it 6 hundred every day, and in 6 hundred environments in this country, we scare everything away, we deter capital, and we just live on this psychoses of fear. You see, I know that this law, among other things, leads and shuts down maybe two hundredths or maybe, as 300 municipalities say, but I'm also asking myself the question of who created these municipalities, small municipalities. Well, they were created by the government, the Parliament voted for it. The IDS never referred to a bill to form any new municipality in the parliamentary procedure. Why did you do that? Well, because someone liked playing with the election, this or that results. In 50% I can say the same thing, perhaps the Croatian environments of that small municipality don't work, but I know that in Istria, for example, they work and then why change it. But whatever this law is, I am convinced that it will ultimately bring nothing, and applause will happen on an open stage for the government but the benefits will not be. And finally, let the principle not so airly defend the media because neither they would be for example for the equalisation of wages or for that policy of egalitarianism nor in HINA, nor in HRT, or the Vesnik, or radio, when their wages would be determined analoguely by salaries paid in the state administration. I know that this law, to end, does not entangle us in the Parliament, but not all the environments are the same, should pay the best, not detimise the good ones, should decentralise Croatia. If you need to arrange the salaries for the mayors, the mayors, but not the officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48088	Thank you very much. Four correctings of the incorrect quote have been reported. First respected representative of Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48089	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Cain, speaking of comparing the salary levels of Ministers and Mayor Porec, said the country's leaders lead the country into bankruptcy. I simply want to correct this incorrect allegation because he said, he confirmed that the heads of state would harm the economic interests of the Republic of Croatia, and that the local leaders would not or cannot. That's an incorrect quote, and there's no need for any deeper explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48090	Thank you very much. Now, on this example of correcting an incorrect quote, I would like to remind you that we have already heard on many occasions that almost 70% of the correction of the incorrect quote is not in line with the Rules of Procedure. I would like to warn that in Article 209(4) of the Rules of Procedure, it defines what is meant by the correction of the incorrect assumption, i.e. what can be corrected. It says you can correct the facts. Now that this government is leading the state into bankruptcy is not a fact, unless you think it is. That is the opinion, that is the position, that is the assessment of Mr. Representatives and in accordance with Article 209 thereof. The rules of procedure cannot be corrected by opinion, attitude and evaluation but only by facts. I can't accept that this is a correction to an incorrect assumption. Thank you. The Rules of Procedure have been injured, hard-earned counsel Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48091	Mr. Vice President, Article 209 didn't say I don't think so, but he told the leaders of this country to go bankrupt, so he made his point, and I fixed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48092	I repeat, paragraph 4 states that an incorrect statement of facts can be corrected. This is not the fact that the state is leading the country into bankruptcy, no matter who says it is not a fact, but the one who makes it out is his opinion. ... As far as I'm concerned, I won't accept these kind of corrections of opinion. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It wasn't even a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next correction of the incorrect allegations has a respected representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48093	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I would not like to earn the basis of Article 209 of the Rules of Procedure, but I also wanted to correct exactly the incorrect allegations of Mr. Agent Caine, who claims, I say, the first people of this government lead the state into bankruptcy. Again, but I'm sorry, and I can even have a discretionary right to actually take this as a claim, as a fact, because that's exactly what this is all about. ... Inaccurate enough that the first people of this government actually want to overcome the economic crisis in such a way as to take various measures through strengthening the economy, reducing the unemployment rate, as well as the final and definitive management of corruption. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48094	Thank you very much. And again on my side the same comment. This is not about the fact, even if it is a claim, the claim is not the same as the fact. Therefore, it is not a fact that should be corrected as an incorrect allegation, and I cannot accept that this was a correction of an incorrect allegation. Thank you. The next correction of the incorrect allegations has a respected representative, Susana Bilić Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48095	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will persist, as in correcting the inaccuracies of fellow Caine, who, in his debate, claimed that the leaders of the state lead this country into bankruptcy. That's incorrect. And if the wrong colleague Cain, the only leader of the local self-government unit had taken his unit to bankruptcy. I'm talking about the Zlatar case. If you say that the leaders of the local self-government units will not harm Croatia's interests again, I am not sure that the Commissioner of Mljet who sold state land did not harm the interests of the Republic of Croatia. You said that by passing this law, I quote nothing will happen, so "by passing this law nothing will happen." It's not true, pal. There's gonna be a turn. No one will be demoted by what you have said, read Article 13 that the possibilities have been left, and so far there have been leaders of units of local and regional self-government to reward their employees for extraordinary achievements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48096	Thank you very much. There is nothing left for me but to confirm that this was not a correction of an incorrect assumption because claiming that by adopting this law nothing will happen is not a fact, it is not a statement of fact but an opinion and an evaluation of the representatives. I would warn on article 214 which speaks of warnings for the application of an incorrect quote when it logs in, and starts talking about another subject, but I would not like to give notices but I would really like to agree on what is a fact, which is not. If there's a difference, of course there's a Rules of Procedure and for that, there's... Okay, there are warnings, but there is also a Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, so perhaps this reflection on correcting an incorrect quote may be an incentive to try again on the board, although there have already been such attempts, to try to define to the end what the correction of the incorrect assumption means. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And the last fourth correction of the incorrect allegations has a respected representative, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48097	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to join my colleagues in correcting the incorrect allegations by risking an alleged warning, but I'm going to extend the assumption that peace is being bought by arrests. It was also one of fellow Cain's allegations. So, with that first part and this second part, but I'd like to say to dear colleague Cain that you were the one who called last week at a session in this High House to be arrested. When I said that God forbid you became president of the state to make this prison twice as small, and only those songs should be sung, and now you'd fill them with another "run to the mountain of Janko". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48098	Okay. Even if in the first part this was a correction of an incorrect quote or a correction of an incorrect statement of facts, it is certain that such incorrect facts cannot be corrected by what is said in the second part of your presentation. So this wasn't exactly in line with the Rules of Procedure either. But maybe maximum for the yellow card. Thank you very much. We'll continue at the clubs. The HDSSB club is next. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic will be easier for you from the bench, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48099	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. Here is this proposal, the final bill on wages in local and regional (regional) self-government has upset the Croatian public. And here we are today in these afternoons when we are a little bit, thinking that there is no direct television transmission which may be better, given that there are double opinions between us on how to regulate this matter, and to keep what we have declared and what the European Union is behind, which is also a European Union with its principles, and that is the decentralisation of the administration, and yet how to actually limit or prevent one chaos, one confusion in wages or in paying local and regional officials. We are all witnessing as it says in this material that 60%, so municipalities, cities and counties have this in line with salaries and levels, classes of government officials. 40% gone. Now, so someone here is calling for autonomy of decision-making in determining the salaries of local and regional to tell the official. When Mr. Cain speaks of a life that is more expensive in Poreč than in Slavonski Brod, he forgets or will not say that the budget of the city of Poreč is twice the size of the town of Slavonski Brod, as well as the County of Istria, which is five times larger than the County of Brod-Posavina. That unemployment in Brod-Posavina County is three times higher or three or even four than in Istria's County, especially in the town of Poreč. That the gross social product of our County of Brod-Posavina is far smaller than Istria, etc. etc. So don't act like this. The Brod-Posavina County has 26 municipalities and 2 cities. Of the 26 municipalities, there are 14 municipalities of special state concern. 12 municipalities are not, so municipalities of special state care or as it says here... in this material of ours, cut short. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, whose side to keep. Citizens, in any case, by announcing this law, let's not say that they're madly happy as they are about these arrests that are actually one, arrests, these mass arrests that are actually one event and some kind of mental food to citizens who are so poor and so poor, that these events at least make them a little happy even though they don't have any influence or that this law won't have any effect on changing the best in this country. When there were talks about decentralisation, about the new administrative, administrative, new administrative division of the Republic of Croatia to municipalities and cities and counties, not regions, then the late Joža Pankretić nicely and vividly said that each of these municipalities would clearly have its own chief, one or two deputies, secretaries, secretary, driver and mandatory ficus or philaderon in the office which must also be held, etc. You see, this law does not cover companies and these companies, companies owned by units of local and regional self-government. And what happens when this law applies to that local and regional so-called. I have to tell a regional government like that. Republika Srpska so I speak so-called, because it is not regional self-government but county. It will happen that one aunt in kindergarten will have a higher salary than the head of the town of Slavonski Brod, because the aunt in kindergarten is not affected, is not covered by the regulations and articles of this law. I'm not just talking about kindergarten aunts, so someone doesn't get me wrong that it's the only occupation. There will be nurses who will have a higher salary of 30% than any headmaster in the county. Maybe it's in Germany, Austria or some other countries, maybe it's an almost normal thing. Because that's where it's appreciated somehow different work. There is a different view of official-administrative affairs than one to say qualified, or nurse who is in direct contact with patients. However, while watching there, salaries and those supervisors in the magistrates, they say in Austria or Germany and those sisters are enough and what they would say now is what is popular to say about sustainable life. We will have problems in this relationship, so on the route of employees in city enterprises, companies, county etc. and people who will be reduced or reduced by this law. How it will reflect on, therefore, the relations between these societies and cities, the county and the municipalities I don't know. We'll see about that, and then in a while, we'll be passing a new law or fixing the one we've already brought in as, which we'll pass as the final draft of the law. The municipality of Slavonski Brod stretching, thus stretching from Lužan and Malin to Gundinac and Vrpolj, before the war, so in that rotten socialism, it had 360 employees. 360 employees weren't even in public at the time. Today, a part of the income that the general department of general administrative affairs had transferred through the Law on Public Registration was given, a part of the jobs so to the public notaries, and even though there were public records, then 360 employees were employed and there was a single computer. Today in Brod-Posavina County in all municipalities, there are 26, two cities and a county of about 450 employees. Technology went forward, and each of these employees has 450 so PCs, or 450 computers. What have we done? What this country has done, and now we've come to one to say one dead end, so to speak, Bosnian... We have a huge and massive not only state administration, but local and regional self-government, and now this law, which would like to be popular with citizens, should somehow be reduced in order to show that something is being saved, and mass employment has been allowed, especially similar in those municipalities where a party is in power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It happened, there is really expressed nepotism, clientelism and everything else, and then I wonder about the question when someone was talking about Commissioner Mljet whether by cutting his salary, perhaps as Susana Bilić Vardić said, he might be, whether the commissioner would be stimulated not to sell more land. I'm afraid it's the other way around, in a criminal way I speak. I'm afraid it's the other way around. So, really like the club, and myself personally, and as HDSSB, I am in doubt, so on the one hand, there is this one desire to reduce expenditure, the costs of local self-government to remain more for users in local self-government and regional self-government, and yet on the other hand, there will be certain injustices and irregularities that can also be caused by raising and suing the Constitutional Court, and because of the violation of articles of the Constitution, 136, 137, that I do not now explain what it is about. Furthermore, the issue is a violation of the Charter on Local Self-Government of the European Union. Furthermore, I wonder how much money will actually be saved and will anything be saved by this law at all? Whether to remain units of local self-government more and whether injustice will be done, one denivelation, again a new one, one mess and chaos in the mayor's salaries, approximately the same size, and depending on the regions and the development of the region as well as which region has its own budget. So if the town of Poreč has 500 million kuna and the town of Slavonski Brod only 200, then when you take the percentage, when you take 20%, it's not the same in Slavonski Brod and Poreč. Either I don't know any other cities, that I'm not talking about Dubrovnik right now, or I don't know who. So that no one else would be specifically called. I'm talking about xy, so let's take it that way. Therefore, during the debate in the Assembly and personally and as the HDSSB club, we will draw conclusions. We have also submitted three amendments, Mr Secretary of State, three amendments to Article 14, to Article 15 and to Article 16. I hope that you will promote them, and me in particular, in Article 14 of that, it is indisputable that the funds are achieved from the basis of the additional share in income tax and help to compensate for the financing of decentralised functions of the means of purpose that accompany the tasks transferred from the state to local and regional units and which actually constitute the income of the unit of local self-government, based on the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, not aid from the state budget. So that part that I'm talking about here, in our amendment, is being included in the income of the unit of local and regional self-government. All this is actually leading us, and this debate and this bill is actually shyly introducing us into the final changes of administrative and administrative units and regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia. I think it is high time we had a serious time, to think seriously about the arrangement of Croatia in one other way, and not about how 550 municipalities, 125 towns and 20 counties were created with the City of Zagreb, especially, so this is really the case with the number of municipalities, cities, the county won't be able to go any further. The HDSSB proposal is also clear in expressing and delivering our proposals for constitutional changes. However, it seems to me that no one thinks seriously about it here, nor does it consider it, but it will come to order, and then we will tell who is the most serious and who thinks about Croatia's future and thinks about regional change, regional structure and fair structure, administrative and administrative structure of the Republic of Croatia, which is therefore the division of Croatia to, above all, the regions, and then clearly that municipalities and cities can have quite different boundaries and clearly need to be reduced, regardless of who liked it and who did not like it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48100	Thank you very much. The correction of the incorrect allegations is given by the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48101	My predecessor just said that I, he didn't say that I was insulting, but that I didn't understand the opportunity in Brod-Posavia County, quote him. I'm not to, say, arrange for you in Slavonski Brod to do certain things. I am that you have one full freedom. I know a Slavonic ship has huge problems, and no one will be able to solve those problems for you. In fact, one Buzet, one Poreč will always be solid with opportunities in one Slavonia. But also let's not nivellize these opportunities and let's not bring Poreč or one of what I know Rovinj or Dubrovnik bring down today to the standard of one Slavonski Brod. From Slavonia to Istria has moved in the last 10, 15 years maybe 20, maybe 30,000 Slavons. On the other hand, I see an apartment in one Poreč or Mrs. Shuice in Dubrovnik per square metre is 2,000 euros. In Slavonski Brod, maybe a thousand. One square meter... Implementing price the same, that's right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There's rent and all that, but now that we're looking at one square meter of land in Poreč is 500 euros, in Dubrovnik is 1,000, in Slavonski Brod maybe 100, I don't know. One square meter of agricultural land in Istria is more expensive than in Luxembourg. 1500 times more expensive than in a Slavonia. Therefore, we should simply keep in mind those moments. On the other hand, do not question the development of certain environments, such as One Poreč That Is a Note of Bene
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48102	Thank you very much. Time's up. Time's up, but it's not just that. The problem is that this really wasn't a correction of the incorrect quote, this was a great opportunity for a replica, and this all you said would probably fit quite well if you asked for a replica like this couldn't be the correction of an incorrect quote because I don't even know... Good thing he can't because it's on behalf of the club, but I don't know what you've fixed. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I think you've called to correct the claim that you have no idea, I think that was the basis for correcting an incorrect assumption. But all of what you said didn't limit yourself to correction, so I can't accept it. We're going to the next club representative, it's the HNS club. Dear Representative Goran Beus Richembergh, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48103	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I must start by saying that the Croatian People's Party is skeptical whenever it comes to cases where the state behaves and puts itself in a way that significantly threatens the principle of subsidiarity. In fact, we are in favour of a model, but also the responsibility of a state that will get as little involved in low-level affairs as possible, that is to say to lower its functions and powers to the level of regional, local or local self-government already according to where certain issues can be resolved. But we also respect the objections of the part of the public, which rightly seems to us to be too much discretion, to the too many differences that exist within Croatia itself in many issues, and also in these matters the salaries of local officials and officials. The question is whether it is the state's job to limit local and regional self-government in its capabilities, or whether it is the job of the state to increase the chances of citizens, or to reduce differences by giving citizens as much as possible a better service and reducing the level of discrimination that already exists, do you live in a developed or undeveloped part of Croatia? What seems to us a very important problem is that for years when it comes to the system of local, regional self-government is mostly improvised and we are mostly guided by political criteria and we are following topics that are politically sounding, which are politically curative goods, and that actually does not exist, and we must acknowledge that there is no systematic analysis of the functioning of the local, regional self-government system in the Republic. One such analysis that would be done by people from the profession, but also by people who know local self-government not only from the chair of the State Office for General Administration or the current Ministry of Administration, but also with concrete experience, should say what the real capacities of our local regional self-government system are. What is the level of their sustainability? How are they organised and does the existing legal framework provide an optimal way of organising? What is the territorial structure of the units of local self-government and does it even correspond to the interests, desires and goals of the Republic of Croatia in any other sense? Furthermore, let's see what functions are to be shared by the state under emergency with regional and local self-government. What are the fiscal capacities of local and regional self-government? What about the announcements we heard here 2.5 years ago when the new government came along where our colleague Chehok, in the name of the coalition, almost fell into wood and stone that in a year's time there would be very significant and sensitive decentralisation not only of power but of resources? Where is it? It's been 2.5 years. Maybe it's because there's no such thing as a guardian of the coalition agreement, but let's deal with it. Is there an agenda that addresses the issues identified by the coalition agreement? And one of the important questions was decentralisation. We don't see it. In this context, this story needs to be seen. A story about the salaries of local officials and tenants, but is it always our destiny to talk and deal with the end of the problem or the beginning? Why always from the end? Isn't the question paying the dominant question that must rely on all these elements that we mentioned earlier? We need to look into the truth and say that the Ministry of Administration has found a situation that is extremely chaotic. On the one hand, we have legal regulations that have been playing, and many things have been improvised, and on the other hand we have that famous political gum gum gum that Mr. Palaric has been stretching for years. That today was worth one thing, and tomorrow it was worth the other, depending on who was asking, who was wanted, who was denied, or who felt that he had greater rights. He's sitting in the Constitutional Court today. But I wouldn't be in the chair of Minister Mlakar and his associates because the job they're waiting for is a bloody job. If they've already taken it right I wish them every happiness and we from the CNS will support them, but we're not sure that's how it's done. 'Cause look what's going on? Even in this law, I'm going to make a parallel. We need to get out of Article 132. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which explicitly states in its 2nd sentence: "Right", is meant by the right of citizens, "the self-government is achieved through local, or regional, i.e. regional representative bodies. Clear as day. The right to local and regional self-government shall be exercised through representative bodies selected, or composed of members elected in free and secret elections on the basis of direct and equal and general voting rights. To bridge the system of political corruption that has become a daily routine in Croatia and the circus that has been happening to us from municipalities, cities and to counties of HNS has proposed a model for us to introduce into the entire system a direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors. But what we have proposed and the spirit of our proposal has nothing to do with what we have passed over the past few years and changing quickly last year almost at the last minute before the direct elections. And what's happening to us now, and that's going to happen to us with this law. Budget law says the mayor, mayor and mayor is due to 15. 11th propose a budget to the representative body. But people say it's an instructional deadline, so there are no provisions, criminal sanctions for the mayor, mayor or mayor who doesn't. And then we have in practice circuses that the mayor proposes a draft budget on December 29th, forcing a deadlock representative body, and then if it dares to raise any amendment to collapse the budget in a way that withdraws the proposal. The Ministry of Administration recently said in one case, and in the case of Vrbovac, it was very clear that it was the task of the head of the executive authority to enable the representative body to adopt a budget, not to disable it. We have eclectic cases of circusing in 12 units of local self-government where we have so-called. cohabitation. And now you don't know if some cities have a budget or not. Can I get it at all or can I not? Because the commissioners don't want to propose a budget. What if it is repeated under this law in this provision concerning Articles 3 and 10. Where does it say it's an obligation to sanction? The mayor, the mayor and mayor said, must propose a decision defining the heights of the salary. Well, it doesn't really have to, exactly. But it says here that it is mandatory for a representative body to make that decision within three months, and now the amendments to the Government define that the only authorising officer is the mayor, mayor and mayor. Well, haven't we learned anything from this experience about how the Budget Law is thrown out? Why are we doing this? Is there any political power in the government to overcome this, to finally address this situation about a circus that happens in trade courts registers that we don't even talk about, where the head of a trade court registry is interpreted by the Law on Local Self-Government? About the pace of the seas. Where now is the Supreme Court, which according to our right system, is in charge of equating the legal practice of all courts in the Republic of Croatia to call on Mr Horvatin to finally hold a general session of the Supreme Court and to make a decision on it, not to crucify 12 cities and municipalities in this Croatia about whether to outwiten the mayor or city council, or the mayor, municipal council or mayor of Zagreb and the city council. Where does that lead? So are we the responsible state and the responsible Parliament? That's why we're not happy when problems are solved from the end, not from the beginning. Because we're going to stay on our flimsy feet again and again, that house we're building, and it's called local and regional self-government, is going to grow back on the weighty ground again. We are not against the clear saying that some things simply don't go, especially in this economically demanding situation, but we are also against Uranilovka. We are not opposed to introducing a criterion by which the unit of local self-government receiving state aid cannot be treated as well as the one which, with the care of its inhabitants, as well as the positional rent, but also the historically conditioned things, generates much, much greater income and stability to its citizens, i.e. a higher level of well-being. But it's time to look the truth in the eye. Our system of local self-government is a leaf in centralised Croatia and it is time to say that such a state cannot function and that the regulations that go to additional centralised rather than decentralisation are not good and are not in the interest of Croatian citizens, i.e. Croatian political people. We plead on behalf of the CNS that the Ministry of Administration is urgently launching a major project of analysis of the local and regional self-government system in Croatia and that we are not waiting for quality results that will allow us to make fair, long-term sustainable and acceptable decisions in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48104	Thank you very much. The next club is the HSLS club of the SDA. In the name of the club will speak the esteemed representative Antun Korushec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48105	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and the SDA, I think we should say one statement at the outset, which is next. That the Law on wages in local, regional self-government is adopted in a truly highly sensitive economic and social situation. The start of territorial reconstruction jobs on the reorganisation of administrations and local administrations, as well as the settlement of electoral legislation justifiably foster public interest. Cancellations, bankruptcys, non-payments in the economy always rightly point to an unwarranted number of units, i.e. cities, municipalities and counties and to the level of wages in local and regional self-government. And we must never forget that in discussions about the number of municipalities and cities and the level of wages in municipalities and cities. In this respect, public interest has certainly attracted large pay gaps in certain local units, unwarranted high wages, payout practices outside the law of established frameworks and ranges, and this rightly causes public disfavor. That is why this law must be passed because of the public's demands and also because of the agreement that the government and public service trade unions achieved in May 2009 to regulate salaries on a unique basis. According to the assessment of this Club of Representatives of HSLS and SDA of Croatia, this law respects the specificities of needs and budgetary opportunities of units. In 556 local administration units, 13 thousand 800 people were employed, and of which 221 units of local administration spend more on salaries than the said limit of 20% of their own income. It actually says that some units employ too many people or have too many salaries. Therefore, the adoption of this law is necessary in order for the perception of local administrations to really be that cities, municipalities and counties are exclusively in the role of public service of citizens. And when we achieve the goal that we all advocate that municipal and urban authorities, county services will be public service to citizens, then only in second place will it be a matter of autonomy for local administrations and self-government in terms of determining the salaries of officials and deputies, or mayors, mayors and mayors. In particular, the final bill on salaries in local and regional self-government provides criteria for determining the salaries and compensation of mayors, mayors and municipal mayors and their deputies as well as the salaries of officials and deputies. In particular, it should be pointed out that the majority of the observations and proposals are and I think that everyone will agree, so one large part of the remarks and proposals made by the MPs and committees of the Parliament in relation to the proposed solutions set out in the draft law which was discussed in July 2009. The final proposal also represents an improvement in respect of the part of the proposal and the objections made by the national associations of local authorities and the trade unions of state and local officials and substitutes and the final proposal for a solution is a significant improvement and I believe that a significant improvement in the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as well as certain colleagues of MPs who, through the amendments, tried to improve the text in parts of the increase in autonomy and original incomes or revenues of local, regional regional self-government. What are these improvements manifested in? The first in the proposal and the final draft of the law is the same formula for calculating the salaries of mayors, mayors and mayors. However, the basis for the salary calculation now determines the representative body. Also, the final draft of the law sets out the maximum amount of salary of mayors, mayors and mayors while the previous proposal has established a range of coefficients. This is an improvement but here you need to ask the question is the fixed upper amount of pay. However, in a situation where the representative body is one option and the mayor, the mayor or mayor of the other option, which is with a minimum wage, which can be done and is not threatening that the mayors, mayors and mayors, according to the will of the representative body, which is not a political option where they have less pay than usual and than would be appropriate. Secondly, in relation to the salaries of officials and subsistences in the proposal and the final draft of the law, the same formula for calculating the salaries of officials and subsistence. As regards the basis for the payment of wages, it is now determined by a collective contract and, if the basis is not established by a collective agreement, it is determined by the decision of the mayor, mayor or chief. The final proposal of the law also found that the representative body sets out by its decision the coefficients for the calculation of the salaries of officials and subsistence within the range of 1 to 6. I also believe that it is a good provision that the payment of the head of the management department must not exceed the salary of mayors, mayors or mayors. At the end of the debate on the example of the city from which I come I can conclude that by applying the solution from the final proposal of this law, the city from which I come is Bjelovar has the ability to grow wages by as much as 9 to 10% if income is secured and this says that all those who have acted rationally have no reason to be afraid or to be very concerned. And in fact, the question is why would the mayor or mayor of the city who has 45 thousand inhabitants have 150 million budgets have a lower salary than the chief whose administrative total, whose unit numbers 10 thousand inhabitants, have a budget of 50, 60 million kuna. In fact, there are a lot of questions and I just wanted to say and point out that those who have been rationally acting here have no reason to be very concerned, but they have actually confirmed that there is a possibility and an increase in wages. With a view to legal action in all units of local, regional and regional self-government in order to ensure transparency of the administration's salaries, the administration will also support the final draft of the law and, in particular, the improvement offered in the amendments, in order to break the practice and process in all units of local, regional and regional self-government in order to ensure transparency of the salaries of the administration. And I believe that this law will bring more trust in local and regional self-government as citizens' services for which we should all strive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48106	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that at 16 hours 22 minutes has expired the Rules of Procedure scheduled time for the individual hearings to be reported. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48107	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. According to statistics today, there will be some 550 to 570 of our fellow citizens without a job. Since we started arguing for 15 hours, which means an hour and a half more than 30 of our fellow citizens are out of a job. And since we are having such an important debate, one would wonder whether this debate is so important and whether this debate will help our fellow citizens to keep their jobs or help our fellow citizens who have lost their jobs to get to work as soon as possible. Will this debate and the adoption of this law save some money in the state budget that we will reroute as an incentive for employment? Will this debate and the adoption of this law result in saving money in local budgets to support local development? What is so important in this law is that here we are at the moment when Croatia is in the deepest crisis so far, when we have not yet defined, identified the problems we are facing, let alone looking for a solution to get out of this crisis we are dealing with and entertaining the debate again on how much the mayors, mayors and mayors in Croatia need to pay, and what we are doing with this law at all. I was really hoping that when the government proposes a second reading of a law that almost nothing like what was in the first reading would give financial statement to that law. It's usually an obligation always to be given. Well, if you're looking at this bill, then the government says that since the means to implement this law are not provided in the state budget that it is neutral to the state budget. And secondly, since this law does not plan to increase the salaries of employees in administrative bodies, and neither is the reduction, or the retention of salaries at the existing level, that there will be no savings on the local budget. So what are we doing? Why are we doing this? Why right now? Why today should we discuss and pass this law, rather than postpone it for a while another to deal with the real problems of the citizens of Croatia. Will the citizens of Croatia live better when this law is passed? Will it? I guess that's our goal. The government and management of local self-government units will be more efficient, more transparent, more accessible to citizens. Will he have a better public service, a better service? Is this law going to result in a cut being abolished? In 1.1, seven new cities made a decision to introduce a cut. There are only a few cities left in Croatia that have not introduced a tax. Are these cities going to go after that so as to end the cut, are we going to have cheaper municipal services because of this law? Whether we're going to have more efficient provision of services to citizens because of this law or this law is the re-spreading of a soap balloon called local self-government reform. Our mouths were full of local self-government reforms. When Mrs. Kosor took over the government of the Republic of Croatia she said we will now make order in local self-government. Does this law contribute to the introduction of order in local self-government? If it is judged by what the Government says no, neither will wages be reduced, nor will the number of units of local self-government be reduced, nor will donations from the state budget be reduced, nor will the way donations from the state budget be changed. Therefore, those who have so far won by political criteria will continue to, those who have not received until now, and have had good projects and will not, those who have so far paid big salaries and in the future, those who have so far hired for no reason and in the future, because the government claims there will be neither an increase nor a reduction nor a financial amount. In the SDP, we really advocate that we talk openly in the Croatian Parliament about local self-government. We can't always put stuff like this under our noses and fool them. Now we're discussing these great salaries of mayors, mayors and mayors and we're going to take them down, and we're not discussing what citizens expect of us, which is that we finally see how many units of local self-government and whether we need them all. Do all units of local self-government meet those obligations laid down and prescribed by law? The answer is no. And that was what we were supposed to do today or deal with at this time in the Croatian Parliament. We should have seen what units of local self-government have fiscal capacity or their original incomes so that they can do what the law puts before them and which they do not. And we should have made a solution to what we're going to do with these local self-government units in the future. We should have passed a law that would motivate the association of local self-government units that we don't have such a large number, that we don't have so much first of all the leaders, mayors, mayors, mayors and thus reduce the isolation for them and increase the efficiency of local self-government and make savings to make that local growth. And we're discussing something again about nothing. They will not, nor will there be greater wages and there will be no higher wages, and there will be less for the servants and the tenants, and there will be no less for the local servants and the householders. And if the government doesn't have the courage to reform the local self-government, then let it say so. It was promised by the end of last year to define which units of local self-government remain or remain, which they do not. Then it gave up and was said to be done by the end of the term. But let's talk about it then. Let's not throw dust in the eyes of citizens with laws like this where something is being debated, and nothing is actually being debated. Now a few specific things about the law itself. We can discuss whether he's in agreement or not with the Charter of Local Self-Government, yes or no, it's really very stretching. Some countries have laws like this, some countries don't have laws like this. However, it is questionable whether it is in accordance with the Constitution, because the Constitution says two things among other things. First, that units of local self-government must be provided with resources sufficient to carry out the competences and functions given to them by the Constitution and by law and second, that the local self-government unit is available to them. And we do two things with this law, we do one principle with which we in the SDP can even agree to determine the mass of funds that can be distributed and transferred to reward those who provide public service and public services. But we do, and we work very specifically, we determine the coefficients here, so we determine, we bring de facto individual acts. Because after this law, the head and chief or the head and the mayor de facto remains only to write and sign it. It is certainly not the role of the Government or the Croatian Parliament and certainly does not comply with the Croatian Constitution. We in the SDP suggest that this law goes into third reading as well. We have proposed this before, and we are prepared to consider our position provided that the Government accepts all amendments submitted to the Croatian Assembly by the Association of Cities, the Community of County, the Association of Municipalities and the Union of Officials and subsistences in the local, regional (regional) self-government and state administration. These amendments have been written and translated into amendments to the Committee on Regional Local Self-Government. It is some improvement in the law, and if the government were willing to accept these amendments, we would be willing to consider our support for this law. If the Government is not prepared, and I repeat that this committee has discussed these amendments and that representatives and the Association of Cities and the Association of Municipalities and Trade Unions were present and that the Committee has unanimously established those amendments, which means that representatives of all parties in this Croatian Parliament voted in favour of these amendments. And if, therefore, the Parliament does not have and the Government does not have the need to adopt the SDP, unfortunately, then they will not be able to support this law, or we will suggest that this law goes into third reading. How good this law says that Article 26 has a very limited duration. This is the first law we say that this law only lasts until the moment when the law is passed, which will settle salaries in the state and public service and local, regional (regional) self-government. First of all, we don't think that a single law can regulate salaries in two systems, which is state administration and local self-government. Because local self-government must have its autonomy to do it on its own. Secondly, we really believe that local self-government should be allowed to do this on its own, or individually. Now, you see in that law some are rewarded, some being punished again. For example, units of local self-government that have taken over decentralised functions are punished because funds from decentralised functions are not counted in the capacity to pay salaries. Cities and counties that took over decentralised functions because of these functions should have employed a number of people. And therefore they must pay them and pay certain salaries, and now what is not the revenue of the state budget because decentralised income is the original tax income of the local self-government unit, only that it passes through the central budget here does not register as or not create, is not invested in the capacity of what can be defined as payment for wages. So there is no fear that even those who have acted today in the spirit of a good master will have problems with this law. They'll all be below 20% of tax revenue. The vast majority or all of them and the mayors and commissioners will not come under the influence of this law that they will have to cut their wages. But there is a legitimate danger that professional people, executives, people who counselors, other employees of local self-government really because of this law think about looking for work in an institution, company or on the labour market. And instead of motivating that capable and professional come to work in local and among other things and in local self-government, of course and in the state administration, we create this law as a premise that we are detimizing them. In local self-government, including the state administration, work will be done by those whose primary objective and motive is job security, not those who can make better wages in the labour market. So, because of a whole series of remarks that we have, we think it would be best if this law went into third reading. But I repeat, the SDP club is willing to consider its position if the government is ready to accept any amendments proposed by the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48108	Thank you very much. Followed by the HSS club and on behalf of the club, respected representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48109	Honorable Vice President, distinguished secretary of state, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Law on wages in local and regional, i.e. regional self-government regulates the criteria for determining the salaries and compensation of mayors, mayors and municipal mayors and their deputies, as well as the salaries of officials and deputies in administrative departments, units of local or regional self-government services. So far, no special legislation has been passed that would regulate the basic criteria for determining salaries, i.e. the remuneration of mayors, mayors and mayors and their deputies, but has already been determined by the representative bodies by their decision. There was also no regulation to regulate the salaries of officials and deputies in units of local, regional self-government, but those officers were subject to the provisions of the Law on civil servants and tenants relating to wage regulation. But the most common case was that these issues were decided again by representative bodies. In doing so, we have witnessed a series of irregularities and unequal wage fixing between local and state officials, where local officials often had higher wages not only in relation to civil servants but also marked significant differences between the salaries of the employees of individual units of local, or regional self-government. It is clear that such a mess could not be maintained and that it was necessary to access the law to bring wages in units of local and regional self-government with salaries of civil and public servants, as well as the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to comply with the May 2009 Public Service Trade Unions. The public has become extremely sensitive to such risks and large differences especially when it comes to local officials' salaries. The resulting law has made it impossible for local officials to voluntarily determine their wages, so we will no longer be able or should not hear that some mayor or mayor has a higher salary than the Prime Minister, or the President of the Republic of Croatia, while at the same time units of local and regional (regional) self-government which in principle has no money or so on. the maintenance of cold drive, let alone for the realisation of development projects which would improve, facilitate or improve the life of the inhabitants of a particular county, city or municipality. The adoption of this law is certainly a good step because it will no longer be possible for the counties, cities and municipalities to be financially exhausted in order to deepen the wallet of those who are at the helm, and I believe that by putting this issue into the legal frameworks, they will clean up and regulate the issue of candidates for these duties and that those who are truly willing to serve the community in which they live will solve the problems of people and their environment will finally get the opportunity. Of course, we cannot talk about this problem in general, and put all local officials in the same basket. Those who are malicious, who are fighting for officials' chairs, to use themselves above all are already somehow detected or discovered, and they have a name and last name and are mostly publicly and called. The most controversy is caused by Article 14 of the final draft law, which limits the mass of funds for the salaries of unit employees and the district self-government to 20% of the unit's operating income achieved in the previous year. Local officials are very loudly objecting to such State interference in the independence of decision-making, local and regional self-government regarding the availability of their own funds, and these complaints are largely fully justified in us. However, according to objections that have arrived at the Croatian Peasant Party's Club, the question is actually why units of local and regional self-government are treated equally, which from the state receive a variety of grants that are mainly financed by the mere survival and survival of the unit, with those who manage to implement their obligations from their own resources. We believe that the state must find a mechanism to regulate these issues, put them in certain legal frameworks through which the overall situation in local self-government could be monitored, controlled, and irregularities detected and corrected. The situation becomes clearer in Article 15 of the Law, which states in units of local and regional self-government which, as end-users in the previous year, have benefited from the State budget, the division of the Ministry of Finance, with the exception of the aid of balancing for the financing of decentralised functions, the assistance of the European Union and the assistance of the state officials by virtue of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, the salaries of mayors, mayors or municipal chiefs may be paid at the most in the amount of the salary set out in Article 4 of this Act minus 20%. In other words, if you're unable to earn enough to cover the cost of your existence, but you expect the state to do it for you, you can't pay your salary. The fact is that municipalities, cities and counties do not exist, that their leaders would have a place to pay, but to solve problems of local importance and improve the lives of residents. On the other hand, we have good examples of units of local and regional self-government where local officials are making huge efforts to obtain funds to build municipal infrastructure, schools, kindergartens, restore health homes, enable children from their fields by co-financed transport, school books, school nutrition and extracurricular activities. In particular, it should also be stressed that the effort that is truly enormous, particularly by the small-scale mayors, is invested in project-making, high-quality enough to compete to obtain funds from the European Union funds. Especially when we know that making such projects is extremely demanding. These officials not only earn their wages, but residents of their municipalities or cities feel the benefits and benefits of living in that unit of local and regional self - government. The independence of local self-government should be respected and should not be affected by independence, but independence is not the same as anarchy. And if the leaders of individual units of local and regional self-government imagined to them, independence ensures that they do what they want, they say truly amazingly the data that the promoter has stated in our explanation. According to the results of the analysis of the financial reports, units of local and regional self-government have shown that out of 576 units of them 155 or 27% had a mass of money for wages greater than 20% of income. Of them 155, 60 units had a salary of more than 20%, but less than 25%. 28 units had a salary mass higher than 25% and less than 30, and 6 of them singled out 50% of their income for wages. It is clear that the leaders of local units object when faced with such restrictions, but a large majority of them, more precisely the leaders of 421 units of local and regional self-government, as responsible persons for spending funds from the budget and that they spent up to 20% of their units' income, which probably constituted the basis for putting such provisions into the text of this law. We therefore believe that this law is a positive shift in order to introduce order and facilitate the legal functioning of the state, and the Croatian Peasants' Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48110	Thank you very much. Both the eighth and last club registered is the SDSS club, on behalf of the club the respected representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48111	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with the Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We at the SDSS Club consider this legal proposal to be one of the most important legal proposals. Why? Because it goes into its essence into something that is very sensitive today, which is in some, at the expense of some of the new 10 thousand workers, employees, tenants, etc., so the person who will tomorrow have the right to show some kind of public revolt due to this kind of pay-in. And especially because we think that through this law some new relations are defined in some way, i.e. some new criteria that will later probably be a criterion for assessing the fiscal capacity and capacity and capacity and opportunities and in the extreme case of justification for the existence of certain units of local self-government. For this reason, we think that this law should be discussed extremely well, so if it is acceptable, I agree with the predecessor that it may not be a bad suggestion that this bill goes even into third reading. We have received some information along with it, but it is interesting to review the municipalities which is probably available to all and the share of their salaries according to Article 14 of this final proposal. This review of the municipalities, the list of municipalities can be viewed in a way that says what these are, that the number of municipalities that have over 20% of their share of salaries in the original incomes and the data is frapantic, that is probably a number that is over 50% of the municipalities. However, this can be viewed in a different way. So we can analyze to see what space these municipalities are from. So we can conclude that most of these municipalities are mostly from the area of special state concern. It is evident that these municipalities are in the budget, let's remember these very municipalities from this table that even have 50%, 70% of the participation of their salaries in the original revenues that they were just the municipalities for which the state intervened and in the 2010 budget. And I finally think that we can draw from this conclusion that we need to bring a regional development strategy as soon as possible. This regional development strategy would define many of the things we lack here, many elements for assessing the capacity and criteria of the development of certain areas and certain units of local self-government. And we think that this strategy would then say in the rest of our view that this upper zone, a critical area of over 50% participation in the original incomes of salaries, should be set in a different way, or otherwise organised. Of course, we at the SDSS Club think it's necessary to intervene in a way into the pay system, that it needs to be balanced in some way. Whether this legal text is the best solution to this should be discussed a little more. Is this a stimulating or destimulating legislative proposal and should be discussed. We got to the club, and probably the rest of you got a series of opinions written by various institutions. Like the Trade Unions of local government officials, Croatian Community of County, Association of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia and some international associations, i.e. the Chairman of the Committee of Employers, etc. So I'm not going to convince them what they wrote, you probably could have read it, too. However, there are several things to be articulated, several suggestions we agree on in principle. So, they point to the possibility of a regressive lawsuit that employees and their trade unions could launch in case it works out such a legal proposal. They point out that collective agreements have been abolished, i.e. the annulment of the effects of previous collective bargaining in their observations. So they point to these dangers. Clearly, it was already said here that there was also talk of injury. Six. The European Charter of Local Self-Government and Autonomy of Local Self-Government and finally the county from which I come has argued this in a way that the county is under certain constraints because of the transfer of certain funds and has been particularly affected in this way by the county budget. I believe that's the case, and we tend to accept these suggestions as something that should be a reason for the motion to answer all of this, to these suggestions, and to tell us that they will eliminate these negative consequences of such a legislative proposal. As for the text itself, I would say a few suggestions, or I would refer to several articles proposed. Especially in art. 3. which states that the basis and coefficient for the calculation of the mayor's salaries, mayors, etc., determines the representative body and is then defined in the following article. So it is said everywhere that the upper limit of pay is defined. However, I think that here should also consider the possibility of defining the bottom line of pay because we have situations where we have polarisation, or that we have a representative body of one political option, and the executive body of another political option. And I have here even examples of some kind that just for some reason the representative body obstructed that mayor in a way that gave him some kind of, uh, a minimum wage that wasn't exactly appropriate or stimulating to perform that function. So I think it might be possible to think about setting a lower limit here that should not go below when determining those coefficients. Article 7 states, among other things, that only the payment solution is passed by the head, but it is said here that such a solution is not permitted and that the dissatisfaction is addressed, goes to the Administrative Procedure. I think that here, however, the mechanism from that former system of working relations, where such a solution could be objected to within the unit itself, should be kept here for reasons which would in some way cost the procedure and that some kind of rush of such cases could be eliminated unsatisfactory at the Administrative Court. I think when the Administrative Court talks and decides on a complaint like this, it can't get into the scale of the matter, which is why the height of the salary is what it is but it can decide on the formal legal shortcomings of such a single solution. I therefore think that it would be much more effective if this transitional instance were allowed, i.e. to make such a payment decision an objection. Article 13 says something that I don't quite understand. At this point, it is said that over the average results, officials and tenants can be rewarded with a maximum of 3 salaries. I agree that hardworking workers should be rewarded, but in public services it is a relative thing and the question is what is some extraordinary effect in the work that should be rewarded with 3 average salaries, on the one hand. And on the other hand, we're talking about wage retrieval, and here we're putting in some kind of possibility that someone three times with an average salary is rewarded for something that they should definitely by the logic of their work and by conscience in good faith to do. And finally, like everyone else, I have a vision of Article 14 that defined this famous participation of wages in original funds. I would say here that this article has been particularly affected by the PPD, meaning the area of special state care for the reasons that it is already by its definition in one specific position and is seeking some kind of special care, or even financial and not without reason. Let's not elaborate on it now, you all know that you're coming from that space. I think even the previous year as a reference year for such an average is not a good year because the previous year has been known to everyone for a financially very bad year, a restrictive year. Some officials claim that they had even 50% reduced original income. Even some claim that they had very poor revenue charges based on concessions, etc. Great concessionaires, which is certainly the result of a general crisis. So I think that year should not be a reference but should find some combination, that the average of some three last years or something like that, but in any case these 20% should not be tied to the previous year for these reasons that I was talking about. Also, Article 14, if we keep this 20% percentage in question in most small municipalities, the local self-government unit, the existence of kindergartens, the existence of even municipal drive, as so far as many have not so far taken into account this law, have not organised municipal plants in such a way as to single out them as one market category, as a special legal entity, but as their services and those who enter into the salaries of these workers, the employees enter into the total mass and burden these 20%. I don't know, but right now, a small number of these small units have separate communal drives and I think this is going to be a very big problem for them, and they're going to have to stop at work or fire one specific person. I also note that these additional elections are a number of local units, whether the municipality, whether regional self-government, whether cities have been elected and deputy mayors and mayors etc. who are mostly professionals. So it's something else that burdens some extra mass of pay. Thus, we finally feel that this law is sufficient to regulate this law, that is, this article 14 differently. In particular, this 20% percentage is not acceptable for the area of special state concern, and I allow that even for certain local self-governments outside that space it is not acceptable. In any case, if the proposer remains in the process of handling the percentage should be increased to 35% or done otherwise, by intervention of the Government in some extreme cases, etc., etc. In any case, we will prepare an amendment to this article, but I am announcing that this article is not acceptable to us. As far as the percentage is concerned, or as regards the reference year, or the previous year as the reference year for this matter. So, and I'm going to end up with that, and we're all aware that we need to do procedures in this matter, that we need to put some order into pay, but we think for a number of reasons this matter is ready for a third reading, if then we could discuss this and then, in that case, if we agree on these things, that law would not be controversial for the SDSS club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48112	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate now. We have 12 individual hearings reported. It's about two hours' work. So this is going to be the last point we're going to finish today. The first to be reported for an individual debate is a respected representative of Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48113	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the debate on the final proposal for the Law of Payments on Local and Regional Self-Government I would like to say that I will not support this bill. However, I would also like to point out that this final bill has been improved compared to the version we had the opportunity to discuss in the first reading. Although improved, I will not support this proposal because I believe that this bill also violates the constitutional principle of subsidiarity. In particular, I believe that this bill is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and that of Article 137, which states: "The units of local and regional (regional) self-government have the right to their own incomes which are freely available in the performance of the business of their own part-round". And it is evident from this bill that local self-government and regional self-government units, however, do not have the right to freely dispose of their own income. This refers primarily to the disputed provision set out in Article 14 of the Law, which I quote: "Masse of funds for salaries employed in units of local and regional, or regional self-government, must not amount to more than 20% of the operating income of the units achieved in the previous year". If the State determines by law that units of local or regional self-government must not spend more than 20 of their income on salaries, this means that units of local or regional self-government cannot freely dispose of their own income and this is a direct violation of Article 137. The Constitution. I therefore argue that this provision ignores the constitutional principle of subsidiarity, and precisely because of the violation of the principle of subsidiarity, this final proposal for a law and contrary to the provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. I have also been addressed by most of your representatives and representatives of the unions of state and local officials and deputies of the Republic of Croatia who have justifiably been indignant and bitter because the government and trade unions of public services agreed in the draft law, without knowledge or behind the back of the most interested foreign units of local, regional self-government, so without the participation of the unions of state and local officials and subsistence and associations of cities and municipalities. I believe that not including the representatives and representatives of the competent union in the process of drafting this bill is a particularly bad precedent, i.e. that these acts are neglected civilization democratic standards, standards that involve the involvement of representatives of social partners and associations in the working groups for the adoption of laws. The comments of the resolute union on the very content of this bill, i.e. the claim that the proposal itself has not been sufficiently thought out and completed, and that, consequently, the outcome of the application of this law is uncertain. This applies in particular to Article 14 of the final draft of the law, i.e. the limitation of the availability of the incomes of units of local, regional self-government to 20% for the cost of salaries whose consistent application could cause an uncontrolled wave of cancellation. Since local self-government units are likely to compensate for the work of fired workers and workers by hiring so-called workers. outsourcing services companies, i.e. by increasing costs for services, will also increase the possibility of non-transparent business manipulation of public procurement procedures, which we are already very burdened with both national and local, or regional bureaucratic apparatus. Objections have also been made regarding the contradiction of the provision of this law, which first sets out something strictly and restricts it to allow for exceptions to the rule set out above in the subsequent articles. I believe that the law so laid down allows many manipulations in the implementation, i.e. legal extension of the provisions of the law. The fact is that in Croatia we have not only a state but also a regional and local administration that is expensive, massive and unfortunately ineffective. However, it is also a fact that the adoption of such a law that is roughly entangled in the principle of subsidiarity or decision-making at a level that is no closer to the citizens will by no means solve this systemic problem of Croatian society and will not make local and regional self-government either cheaper, faster, or more effective. One of the arguments for the adoption of this law was the savings of the state budget to finance the material expenditures of a large number of local self-government units and units of regional self-government. It is a sad fact that by encouraging the explosion of the number of units of local self-government, especially those who are unable to finance their own needs, the HDZ has thus led to the current absolutely unsustainable situation. But not only does sound logic but the question of elementary justice require that this problem be resolved in a completely different way. If there is a real desire and a need for the existence of units of local self-government that are not financially encapsulated to remain in line without the help of the central cashier, let them exist but those who do administrative work in such units will have to determine the work voluntarily. I believe that in this way, a very simple solution would be made to the problem of huge expenditure on management in local self-government units. And in the end, I will repeat what I said and during the first reading of this bill. Of course, the state will not reach for such a solution because it would thus endanger the interests of its customers in the units of local self-government of those who have been sucking on the state manger for years and in return to their citizens and citizens do not provide any service. Of course, for HDZ it is a much better solution to work on the systematic destruction of healthy and prosperous parts of society, to restrict their Constitution and law-guaranteed rights, to abolish the principle of subsidiarity and to introduce the worst possible variant of the Stalinist regime in Croatia's payment system. Because of all this, I will not support the passing of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48114	Thank you very much. Replica has a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48115	This last thing you said and otherwise in this conflict when you specifically quoted the provisions of the law as to how many units of local self-government can spend their money on wages is the amount that has been violated in many units of local self-government. I'm familiar with one unit of local self-government whose purpose was, that was one municipality, the salary of the municipal chief. And he lived nothing, there wasn't a building either, there was literally a horn that he advertised was going to play some kind of game on the noises. And that was the meaning of that local self-government unit. He called the Justice Department nonstop for legal advice, so we said we couldn't give much of a lot of constant advice, so he could look into the law in the People's Newspaper. He called again in ten minutes and said there were no "People's Newspapers" in the trade. So here you see such units of local self-government and there are them, maybe this is the most recent example really doesn't make any sense to do business, but in this way, instead of the government finding really some wheels of economic policy, promoters, and then some things that can help overcome crisis situations, after all, and reducing the number of units of local self-government, its greater efficiency and availability to citizens there, it has all the role of being a unit of local self-government each is a complex organism. She's got a lot to do. But limiting wages in this way means pre-negative selection and what you have said is the need to hire professional people outsourcing, a large amount will be spent on this and in local self-government units will be done by those who really have nowhere to work and that is something that is devastating and the level of such services that is worrying almost in all local self-government units will be even worse. Let the government find some other savings mechanisms.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48116	Thank you very much. Replication response and counsel Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48117	My colleagues Antičević-Marinović you are absolutely right and unfortunately I have to remind myself that when Mr. Mlakar's new management minister was appointed, it was said that the government would go to the meaning of cutting or to form the entire system of local self-government. As we have seen, this has not happened and it does not seem to happen, regardless of what they promise to do at the end of the term. I'm afraid it won't be done because it would endanger clients like I already mentioned them in local self-government units and I'm afraid we're all hostages of this system, especially those units of local self-government that are healthy and able to actually finance their own existence and provide quality services to their citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48118	Thank you very much. Next up is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48119	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. When we talk about this law, I also advocate that it goes into third reading because I feel it is necessary that further talks are opened with local self-government units because I think it is not simply fair that this law is proposed and the GSV has agreed on meaning between the two sides of the government and the public service unions have agreed on a bill that has not been consulted at all in this way with the units of local self-government. What am I saying that for? I'm talking about because there's already one level of pay regulation at this point. Not all units of local self-government are in some way irresponsible and do not spend all units of local self-government most of the funds for wages but have one real and harmonised system related to their budgets. On the other hand, normally that part of the interested party must be consulted because they cannot impose a third party's story in order for the whole system to be changed. As for the 20% limit, I think this proposal is much more quality than the first. I absolutely support putting some level as much as can be spent on wages and it is certainly more quality than was the first proposal where local officials wanted to be aware below the level of civil servants and, on the other hand, to disable trade union organisation and ultimately cancel all collective agreements that were concluded in local self-government units by then. This proposal, which regulates 20% and coefficients from 1 to 6 I think it's quite flexible but I have a grudge regarding the units and this is defined in the article 15. Now, that's where we're going after that story that we have units that we've given some help with for a reason. There are islands, areas of special state care, and in some ways these are the funds that have been legally obtained and which have been continued and I see no reason for the salaries in these units to be reduced by 20% What is the fundamental problem of Croatia and such laws, I do not think this law will bring any concrete excess savings. At one point he was released as spin to say more mayors won't have more salaries than ministers, here he is saving up, we'll cut salaries in local units, we'll save some money, etc., and he's not moving away from that fundamental problem. We have a problem that the state administration is too big, that in the last six years it's about to increase by 60,000 people, and I'm not going to say that people in the state administration, I'm talking about administration, but also about the social sector, health care, education, etc., I'm not going to say that they have too much pay. On the contrary, people who are doing certain jobs could be paid more than they are now, but it happened that at the very size of people who have been employed in the last six years, they are working somewhere between 50,000 and 60,000 people, not by investing in reforms and in a more efficient state administration, they have come to the fact that we have a bulky administration and we spend too much. And now here it's pointing its finger at, now look it's about 13, 14 thousand people who work in local units opposite the globular ones I told the administration that has 240, 250 thousand people. And now it shows how this country is going to save and how it's going to go towards a more rational business. Absolutely wrong, and I think that the state should have left first, pointed to its example, and then, of course, go to the reorganization of local self-government and thus touch and pay local self-government. On the other hand, we have a situation where agencies are absolutely not subject to any rules on state wages, etc. They bring their own rules for themselves, we have at this moment over a hundred agencies and various offices that act in parallel and are set up by this Parliament, which are acting and which should have taken over part of the state administration's affairs, but are not the most often. Most often new people were hired, and jobs stayed where they were, which regulate their salaries and then have salaries on average 10 thousand kunas and more, on average I say in certain agencies. They determine their own regulations, coefficients, you can have stimulation depending on how the director rewards you, up to 40, 50% a month, and after that, automation continues every month, etc. So we have one total discrepancy and inconsistencies at the state level, and we have found ourselves because one mayor, the mayor, had 2,000 kunas more than a certain minister's salary, making fair and in some way correcting some irregularities that are financially borne by very little or almost nothing. Where the real things are, where people are busy and ask God what they're doing, we can read about the media and agencies what weird names there are, you can't even remember what they're doing, but they each have 20, 30, 50 employees and they all have tens of thousands of kunas to pay and I guarantee that spending is much bigger than we'll save on this case. So my message is I'd like to, since I've read a lot of complaints from the units of local self-government, the association of cities to go into third reading, to arrange a quality law. This is already a step forward from the first variant. I believe that the third can be even better and to be passed at the end of the law that will benefit all. But in parallel, I would like to call, as many times as I have so far, the ruling coalition to start with reforms in the state administration and to really do with its action, will, desire, except declaratively through stories and through the release of balloons, through the media these days we can read about what will happen next months, on this issue something concrete is done, and there will certainly be support from the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48120	Thank you very much. Replica, again Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48121	This last colleague of yours, therefore, has been going on for six months when the government has truly been encouraging to announce the reform of the units of local self-government, i.e. we all agreed, all political forces and this is one public assessment that the unit of local self-government has too much. However, that was also well figureed out in public and it was the best way for local self-government units to really be at the service of citizens, which cannot survive in such a way as to remove and save funds. But here's the question now why the 550 cities and municipalities, the local self-government unit, continue to exist, why they didn't go into the project. There are some large analyses, depth analyses, and so on, however, there are ways where there is a will. We see how this law immediately came to be a painless solution, but this is an unfair solution, so what it cuts like this. And what my colleague Mirela said before, and what you're especially potential for right now, nothing, this is just the creation of a public impression that here in this time of crisis we're making sure how many mayors have, how many mayors have. Some of them have, I'll tell you, the mayor of Kamena municipality who took over a municipality that had a large, large number of unemployed, this is his third term, no unemployed in that municipality has any. His salary is 8, they have huge, there's a little entrepreneurship booming, his salary is somewhere around 7.8 thousand kuna. So there are some who have really boasted, maybe there was a limit to being set, but in this way, getting into the affairs of the local self-government unit is quite unwarranted. And one more thing I'd like to say is, who's saying what's going on with company executives owned by local self-government units that often produce only losses?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48122	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica has a representative named Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48123	Comrade Ingrid, you said in your statement that this is an illogical law. I'm now asking you if it's fair that at the agency, what's called, for monitoring the effects, etc. Some of the acts brought by the Parliament, the Government, etc., it's really hard to figure out what they're doing, is it fair to have 3, 4, 5 employees in that agency who are getting paid, there are more, but they're getting paid more than 10 thousand kunas and I'm bringing it up with the town of Koprivnica, which has 30,000 residents and there with some head of finance who are now going to have a salary under it. He's already got a salary under it. Is that fair and is that an honest suggestion? I am absolutely convinced that this is due to the need for a media story, because it's nice to see in the news we'll take the mayor off this or that 2,000 kuna. But through state-level work, through government, through the establishment of such agencies, by allowing rules to be passed because there are certainly several thousand people in those agencies who have salaries such as officials, we certainly do not show the will to really deal with what everyone needs, which is a more rational state administration and less public spending.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48124	Thank you very much. Otherwise, those agencies are gone for something. We still have a line, right? Dear Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48125	Thank you. Dear fellow, you are right when you support the third reading of this law and you are right when you say that this is only one spin that should have shifted public attention from other problems that are burdened with Croatia. However, it may work either for two or for three mayors' salaries or for some mayor who have dared to pay more than ministers, I have calculated that it is total. So 127 cities have, 429 municipalities, 21 counties. So that's 577 officials. And if everyone has two deputies, that's three times. So, somewhere around 1700 people. But who in this country knows today is probably what the number of ministers we all know. However, what is the number of ministerial assistants, state secretaries, assistant state secretaries, directors of agencies, management and everything that is not already called their assistants, the whole and state administration, which has increased by nearly 20,000 kuna. What's the number of drivers who only drive official cars along the way? So there's one big illogicality and the transfer of one big problem to local self-government units, which is also counter-constitutional. Because the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that units of local self-government and their financial smooth functioning should be provided. And secondly, this law is contrary to the command, the European Charter of Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48126	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica has a respected representative, Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48127	Comrade Vinkovic, you've listed 1,000 and a half local officials from whom I guarantee that at least 1,000 of them have a real salary compared to what this law has now proposed and will fit. There are volunteers, there are other situations. But the wages aren't unrealistic right now. But that's why in public enterprises you have close to 3,000 managerial contracts. Only in HZ four hundred. We see how it is managed by our public companies and all of them have higher wages than you as mayor of Đakova, all of these close to 3000 people who have been well placed on HEP, HZ, Croatian Forests, Croatian Waters, and nobody asks that. No one's talking about it. About the subsidies we give every year to Croatian railways, and 400 receive 15 and more thousand kuna salaries there and have the right to severances, official cars, cards, etc. It's nothing to anyone. But now we're going to talk about reducing the accounting chiefs in Koprivnica or the head of Zagreb's salary by 1000 or 500 kuna. Thank God that the proposal from the first reading of the law did not remain, because it would be funny if indeed the head, or head of finance in the city of Zagreb, had 6 thousand kuna salaries. They'll be able to get bigger on this one. Maybe she'll be able to have what she's got right now. But this is what you said, it's basically a distraction from the real problems. The real problems lie with the state administration and with public enterprises.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48128	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. Honorable representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. According to the existing laws of the municipalities and cities and counties, of course, they have their specific roles not concerned by the state, and they relate to education, social care, transportation or other municipal affairs, and therefore I believe that municipalities, cities, counties are extremely important and that their role should not be easily understood. And from that aspect, of course, people who are employed in these institutions, institutions and, of course, the leaders who are here for the first time now are also elected in the last local elections directly. That's why I have to say I don't like it when it's generalized through the debate and it says they're all the same and it's all the same. Because I, above all, am a representative and sometimes a former regional government official, expect from the mayor, mayor, mayor, but of course also ministers, parliamentary deputies, all public officials to do their job with honor, moral, fair and busy. And I think that most people do so and do their public duties and that there are much, much less negative examples. Of course, it should also be said that anyone who does his job correctly that should be adequately paid for that job, although we are witnesses that it is not always the case. Especially when we're talking about the salaries of civil servants and tenants. I would certainly advocate that we do not go from horse to donkey, i.e. local officials and tenants who still had a slightly higher salary than civil servants and tenants retain their status, i.e. to both civil servants and tenants of their salaries are increased. Because I think anyone who does their job should be responsible and rewarded. In the financial crisis in which Croatia is located, it is absolutely certain that models of rationalisation and cutting of public spending are being sought, and it seems to me that our citizens have taken this task and the need for savings far more seriously than some managers, directors of public enterprises and politicians acting as drunk billionaires when it comes to spending budget money. I have often talked about such examples here in the Croatian Parliament and of course there are examples that particularly fall into the eyes, because there are local officials who have higher salaries not only from ministers but also from the Prime Minister himself, and also from the President of the State. That it's absurd saying and the fact, not only the absurdity that it is both immorally and politically incorrectly speaking both the fact and the example that I have often mentioned. This is exactly an example of Sisak-Moslavina Mayor Marin Lovric, who is the country's best-paid politician, and the head is one of the poorest counties, so perhaps you shouldn't be surprised that she actually announced a false salary on the sides of the Committee for Conflict of Interest, which has only recently been discovered. Namely, the salary published on the sites of Sisak-Moslavina County, which she reported, amounts to 14 thousand 098 kuna and 70 June, to reveal that the mayor had actually shown a false salary for 5 years, because in these five years her salary was between 18 and half thousand kuna and 22 thousand kuna, which is a clear example of conflict of interest, and I repeat it absolutely unacceptable, while the citizens remain unemployed in that county, while officials and tenants are being introduced various penalty points to reduce their wages, so that the mayor assesses her work with a salary greater than the prime minister and president of the state. What's even more surprising in this whole story is the fact that she's also acquired a $5.3 million asset from that salary, so regardless of whether she's 14 thousand or 22 thousand kuna, it's impossible to earn from a salary that much money and buy that kind of property that she's acquired. Well, I think that's the same issue we should deal with. Because of this example but also similar examples to which we are witnessing, surely the Government is responsible, but the Parliament is responsible to take concrete measures and I think that this law that is proposed is on the trail of these concrete measures. Of the 576 units of local self-government, 221 units will have to cut the salary mass on the trail of this proposal, so the mayors' salaries, mayors' salaries, municipal mayors' salaries will be somewhere in the rank of ministerial salaries and those held by government vice-presidents, while the salaries of mayors and mayors of cities and municipalities that have more than 10,000 inhabitants will be equal with those of state secretaries. It is not a competition that will have a higher or lower salary, it is simply a moment in which we live and I believe that everyone must behave rationally and rationally, and that in that segment certainly all of us should make a contribution, and of course local leaders, or mayors and mayors, in order to avoid situations for some to be better and some to be paid worse. I would just like to warn that we from the HSS have proposed provisions that would determine the lowest wage that local leaders can have, or the range within which the salaries can be moved, because we have rightly warned colleagues in previous discussions, that local self-government units where the assembly of municipal or city councils, or when it comes to the county assembly differed in political relations, or political colors from leaders and local self-government, have often been subject to mutual calculations and calculations, and then some of the mayors and mayors have been cut by wages, which is also one form of underestimation, and I also do not think that it is acceptable. Here's to what I've said, I think this law offers one more rational and new opportunity, and I certainly advocate that the salaries of officials in the local self-government and also in the state service are greater and that the possibility is found, therefore, to be greater than what was now the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48130	Thank you very much. Replica has respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48131	I find it entirely inappropriate to accuse a Sisak-Moslavina County official who is not present here. On the other hand, they can also agree that the salary, given the average salary in the Republic of Croatia, is extremely high, but according to the logic, the salaries of ministers and government members are extremely high. And the only thing I can't agree with is that for an increase in unemployment in Sisak-Moslavina County, it's only the mayor's fault, because the causes are obviously far higher. Since this wave of unemployment, i.e. an increase in the number of unemployed, has not only affected Sisak or where members of the current opposition are in power, such as Djakovo, but has hit all of Croatia, and all experts are saying that the biggest causes of increasing the unemployment of the VAT system we have, the system of incentives to the economy that we do not have, the system of incentives to agriculture that we do not have and the system of supervisory committees in which politicians are sitting and destroying that economy. At the very end, I would just like to point out that it is likely that Mrs. Mayor has acquired some of these properties during the time Mrs. Petir was also the deputy mayor. And I agree with Mrs. Petyr, if what she's saying is true, there are competent institutions who need to investigate the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48132	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Petyr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48133	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Vinkovic, I am not accusing, this is the right word brought by the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest of the Croatian Parliament. So I just read the data that's in the report that's available to you and everyone else. So it's not an accusation, it's just facts. It's a sad fact. What you and I can agree on is that it's not just one person to blame for unemployment. I didn't even say that. But I believe that you know the information, colleague Vinkovic, that Mrs Lovrić spends only 100 thousand kuna on a single household, and I think it would be good to say that she invested those 100,000 kunas in the development of agriculture, rather than abolished the incentive for farmers, or to invest them in the construction of school facilities, not to build school facilities, but not to withdraw money from the state budget, which was provided for, for example, a new crafts school in Sisak of 20 million kuna, while children swim in water at an existing old crafts school. While Ms. Mayor Marina Lovric abolishs support in health care, for an increased health standard while abolishing emergency medical care, physical therapy and thus direct impact on those of our most sensitive groups of people, then I believe that she is the first of those most responsible because she has direct mechanisms in the hands of her citizens. It takes away their rights, and the county money spends on things that I don't think are appropriate not only in recession times but that are not at all appropriate, which are lunches of 100,000 kuna and similar luxury.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48134	Thank you very much. An individual debate between the respected representative, Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48135	There is a beautiful city in which we have managed to harmonize the relationship of nature and people, culture and tradition and which is therefore nominated for the "Golden Flower of Europe." It's Požega. And of course in Požega we also harmonised the relations between the city administration and culture and all other institutions, so culture came to its proper place. We expected that and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia would further enrich this fund and the public administration as a whole restore dignity. But now this final proposal that we have, the final proposal for wages in the local and regional self-government sent to us by the government, it distances us from these efforts, brings unrest and brings great confusion, and I will at the very beginning suggest not to return this to some first reading or to go to the second or third reading but to take it off the agenda. I've got over 20 years in the state administration, over eight on my own, as well as in local self-government, and I'm gonna try to be objective not to just bury myself in local or regional positions, because I've been there for a while. Namely, so far here in the city of Požega, with the attention of a good master, we have tied the wages of the city's administration to economic opportunities, budget options, collective agreements, feeling for others, but also feeling of the dignity of workers in the local or city administration as you will. But with that approach, I was not comfortable finding out about the poor salaries in the state administration, which are down about 40% in the specific case of the city administration’s salary in Požega. And now what about this new law tells us or sends us a message from the Government of the Republic of Croatia? One of the messages is, in addition to this 20% limit, and the desire for harmonisation, one of the messages is that regardless of whether we have a gap or a higher salary compared to the state administration than 40%, regardless of how modest we were, that we were too timid, that we were overbearing, overly payful. And it goes on to say, according to this final proposal, it comes out somewhere that we can raise wages if this law is passed by cca 17%. In the administration, city workers have recalculated and awaited this law and are then asked by union workers to ask for a simple increase of 17%. And then in my town, you'll be in a situation like this. We'll have higher salaries in the city administration by over 60% compared to the state administration. And now we ask the question where is then the commitment to which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been going, thus harmonising the entire public administration. Where's the motivation? Where is the expertise, responsibility, justice and ultimately where is the dignity of workers in the state administration? In order not to get me wrong, I don't plead here for cuts, any cuts on local or regional self-government because we and with such wages can't get often many professions, let alone quality or experience. The key, in my opinion, is the state administration and we all know that. As we know that small and efficient or that only small and efficient professional and well-paid, motivated and dignified administration can today respond to those tasks set before it. So what we've now got on the table, I think it's clouding the problem, and all of these endings, the additions that we've had, in my opinion, have devastated the original idea of the proposal itself. So I said at the very beginning of my opinion that this final law proposal should be withdrawn from the procedure, seriously tackle harmonisation in the fullest sense of the word. So not only niveling or deniveling wages, and build a unique system of wages in public administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48136	Thank you very much. Next up, she's a respected representative of Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48137	Dear Mr. Vice President, here I would like to, dear Secretary of State, to engage a little in this debate. The fact is that one day we will have to open a debate on the topic of local self-government units, especially given their number, this topic is inevitable. It's just a matter of time before we decide. The fact is that it also states that the local self-government unit independently deploys and manages its own resources both in the Constitution and in the Charter of Local Administration and Self-Government. However, the fact is that most of us here today have agreed that there is still a need to determine, or limit the wage mass and that the starting point here is that the government is proposing that the mayor or mayor's salary cannot be greater than the minister's salary. Well, that's what we agreed on more or less. But what I want to problem here is that neither all cities nor municipalities are the same nor their population is the same, nor their area is the same, nor is the scope of business, nor are they situated in a geographical position in the same way. We also agree that there is a need to stimulate and reward officials in local self-government units, and that is set out in Article 13. I think that article 13 previously existed similar to that and that it is something that is available to the executive leaders. We also heard today that of the 576 units of local self-government 220, they will have to be cut safely under this law, and this law sets the upper limit, and the lower limit should not be determined which should also be considered. But what I want to point out as an example here is an example of the city of Dubrovnik. The city of Dubrovnik 45 thousand inhabitants, but the town of special state care, two thirds of its area normally function, and one third is the Mokošica and Dubrovnik coast in a way that extends 26 km west of the town in the rural hilly area in the villages of the Dubrovnik coast. It may not make sense to you, but when you take that example that now the executive head of the city of Dubrovnik would have had no coefficient of 6.42, that the officials had a coefficient of one to five and that would be all right because the pay mass is no more than 20% of the income, but when we take those aids that we get from profit tax, which are considered State aid, regardless of when we bring that income tax and profit tax and when we change that law, we said that it was the income of the state. We talked about the state's income tax. And today it is the state's aid to the local self-government unit, so in this case the executive head of the city of Dubrovnik will have a 20% lower salary, and the officials here, and these officials, in particular, point out the heads of state, will be able to have a coefficient of one to two to two. Which means the head will have 2.5 coefficients, which is consistent with the head of the state service sector. I don't think that's exactly the example of this town being seen, there's enough analysis done. It's impossible for a head who's doing very difficult jobs, most of the jobs are actually the deputies and the readers who are doing it, that they're going to come down to the 2.5th coefficient, and I think we need to think about it one more time and see how they regulate it. I have also looked at these amendments of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, and most of them would agree. However, these amendments show that this aspect has not been seen because the Head of the Association of Cities comes from Rijeka, i.e. northern counties and the Chairman of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government also Mršić from Koprivnica and did not see this aspect that there can be one such city with 45 thousand inhabitants with more than 300 million kuna budgets, that he gets help because of this 26km area from a state called the return of taxes on profits and that in fact no amendment speaks of this problem. In fact, the situation should be considered because it is not fair that the city that has acquired historical circumstances has come into the situation to become also a city of special state concern, that the job of the head of such a city is very complex from the strictly urban identity of the city to very rural in those hilly parts of Dubrovnik's hinterland, and this acquisition of circumstances has made the wages here significantly reduced which I think should not allow. I can also say in a certain way "conditionally" that they are being punished and that I agree with those cities that have taken over decentralised functions. The fact itself employs a higher number of employees, a higher mass of salaries. However, this time, the mass of wages here does not apply to this city, it refers only to the area of special state concern and I believe that this should be reconsidered. And with that, someone here was talking about how the reference year shouldn't be last year. I think that's an issue to consider. That both cities and municipalities and counties should allow consolidation to see what they're helping, see if it's been a year, because last year hasn't been very good. The budgets didn't fill out the way it was meant to be. And I think maybe you should see what the reference year is. I personally support the law, because it's good to settle this issue. For me, it would be acceptable for these amendments to accept and help this source to be a reference figure, but to consider this issue from areas of special state concern, when it is not just islands, hilly areas and some cities in the hinterland, but here in particular in Dubrovnik, which may be that no one has thought about when this law was proposed. In that sense, I would ask you to take a look around and see if we can see until the final vote to include this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48138	Thank you very much. We have a replica reported by the esteemed representative Branko Boxti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48139	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned the coefficients that will be after the application of this law, here with the calculation I also come from the area of special state care. In my city, wages will be lower in gross 30 thousand 362,77 kuna. Although we now spend less than 20% on wages. And I think that's a minor problem. The bigger problem for me is that we as a unit of local self-government are the founders of many institutions. It's an example for kindergarten. And kindergarten employees will have more salaries than employees in the city's administration. And we as the city administration are obliged to secure salaries for kindergartens. Since kindergartens are covered by the Preschool Law or by a Regulation on the names of jobs and the coefficients of the complexity of public service jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48140	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48141	I'd like to thank my colleague Box for opening this question because it's obvious that there are other perhaps points that we haven't touched. The law's intensities are good. The fact is that it went from those basic premises that I said at the beginning to limit the mass of wages, that it could not be paid by the mayor and the mayor that we all agree on, but that these fines should be looked at again, and that maybe the association of cities as far as I can see, and that I realized from Mršić that all the amendments that were included in the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government actually included the proposals of the Association of Cities, which means that even those in the Association of Cities did not come to this data, so that the happy environment is that we have experience from the mayoral or mayoral mandate that we might be able to help make this law fairer after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48142	Thank you very much. Next is the debate of the respected representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48143	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Honorable Ministers, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This law that we are discussing today is actually one of the intervening government laws that have been passed with the motive to create certain savings at all levels in this time of economic and financial crisis. Unfortunately, just as others have adopted such intervention laws so far, I'm afraid I won't get the expected savings, but it will rather cause the counterproducts. As for example, the introduction of haraks and the increase in VAT did not increase the revenues of the state budget, which was the primary intention, these revenues were already reduced because the reduced purchasing power of citizens reduced consumption and thus the trafficking in retail trade will reduce the budget revenues of local and regional self-government units from income tax. In addition, it is not good that we agreed with one such move to limit good, efficient local environments with strong fiscal capacity and great development opportunities. However, despite the fact that the law constitutes a temporary solution, this law is nevertheless extremely important to the adoption of a special law which will provide a basis for planned special legislation in a unique manner, in public services and local and regional self-government, so that it would be very good to enforce and even the salaries of employees in companies owned by units of local or regional self-government, so municipalities, cities and counties, because we now have on the ground a situation to pay the directors and directors of these companies and administrations greatly above the salaries of mayors, mayors and mayors, therefore the heads of those units of local and regional self-government who are the founders of these companies and administrations. The law imposes restrictions on the salaries and compensation of mayors, mayors and mayors, their deputies and officials and subsistence officers at individual level but also introduces a restriction on the mass of salaries or so on. I would like to say a few words. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area. The additional problem with all of this is the fact that it is not clear from the legislative proposal whether such a limited amount of pay enters and benefits from officials who have not established a working relationship with a local self-government unit. Therefore, if such a formulation of the limit of the wage mass remains, or if such a defined wage mass is insufficient, it will cause the release of professional workers from units and cities and the provision of professional services to agencies, accounting and other services. Therefore, the number of employees in local and regional self-government units will be reduced and space will be opened to increase the number of employees in companies dealing with this type of activity so as to say specialist services. At the same time, this means reducing the share of wage costs in the total expenditure of units of local or regional self-government but at the same time increasing the costs of executive services. So, it's not the neck, it's the cost of whether it was paid or called the cost of service. For citizens, the most important thing is, of course, that their problems are solved quickly, quality and at the least possible cost, and this certainly will not be the case if they are to be trusted by companies because it often means opening up a space to play the Public Procurement Act or to open a space for setting up jobs and corruption. The dismissal of professional workers will unfortunately have another negative consequence. In fact, a number of local and regional self-government units have managed to sort out their professional services and train them to prepare projects for European funds. In fact, we are growing teeth for the announced 3.5 billion euros of European money for 2012 and 2013, of course on the condition that 2012. Croatia enters the Union and the assumption of withdrawing these funds is quality projects. We should already have ready projects now, or should have them in one high degree of preparedness, and now by cutting salaries, we are forcing professionals from local and regional self-government units who have learned to prepare these projects. I therefore support the proposal of the Trade Unions of State and Local Servants and Deputys of the Republic of Croatia, which is actually translated into the amendment of the Assembly Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government to ensure greater value of the contribution of the local and regional self-government units in the overall budget, i.e. that the basis for the calculation of wages is determined depending on the share of local self-government units' own incomes in their total revenues. Therefore, the smaller aid to the local self-government unit from the state budget is a larger basis, i.e. greater dependence on the state budget of a smaller base for wages. This concept of wage concept would certainly motivate officials and professionals in municipalities and cities to become more involved in the collection of local incomes but also to spend them more rationally. To conclude, I think this law will not achieve more significant savings and rationalisation in the functioning of units of local and regional self-government. This is unfortunately just one kind of cosmetics. In fact, and now in force, the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government contains proposals to streamline the costs of local and regional self-government by offering the possibility to connect municipalities and cities in the conduct of operations in its own district, so it is possible to set up joint bodies, administrative departments and services or even joint companies to carry out these activities. Unfortunately, there are almost no examples of such integration in the field to reduce costs. Everyone, even the smallest municipality, wants their own administration even when that administration is its own purpose and does not bring much benefit to its citizens, but here is a good place to hire similar people. The only real move towards rationalising the local administration is to reduce the number of units of local and regional self-government that has been announced too long. We remember very serious announcements that by the end of 2009. The Ministry of Administration comes out with a proposal for a new establishment of local and regional self-government, but obviously, there is no real political will to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48144	Thank you very much. The correction of the incorrect allegations has a respected representative of Branko Boxti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48145	I thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Jelash, you said there would be no significant savings. So I told you before on my example, 30 and a few thousand in gross every month you multiply it by the number of months per year and times the number of units and you'll get to a certain number. I think it's a lot of money anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48146	Thank you very much. Now it's the honorable representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48147	Dear Vice President, representatives of the Croatian government, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are again in front of this proposal for a bill of wages in local and regional self-government. Also in the first reading, and in this proposal, the solutions proposed are broken by the basic constitutional provisions of local self-government autonomy and centralisation is introduced into the system of determining wages to local and regional (regional) self-government units. In this regard, it is noted that the bill does not respect the provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which promotes and raises the degree of autonomy of local units, as well as of their work cycle, as well as the resources necessary for its implementation. It is also not acceptable to decide according to which units of local self-government cannot determine on their own the basis for calculating wages. The proposed solutions fully determines the wages at local level which raises the role of the union in representing the rights of local officials and subsistence with the employer, i.e. local officials and subsistences, do not have the ability to negotiate with employers on the basis of the wage calculation, as state officials and subsistence may do. There is also a problem with collective agreements concluded in local self-government units. In accordance with the Law on Officials and Landowners in local and regional (regional) self-government which is prescribed that collective agreements may regulate the standards and other rights of officials and subsistence in the administrative bodies of local units. I'm convinced the ministry doesn't have the right picture of wages in local self-government, headmaster, other employees, because I suppose I know how to collect such data. I believe that this law is counter-constitutional because the Constitution says that units of local self-government are available by means of their activities and their powers. This law is contrary to the Labour Act because everything that has been done so far in local self-government has been done in accordance with the law. All collective agreements were concluded in accordance with the law, all rules and general acts adopted by the representative bodies of the units of local self-government came under control by the State Administration Office and the State Administration's Office confirmed that they were in conformity with the law. Since everything is set by law by local and regional self-government, and the state is now destroying it all, there is a real danger of many lawsuits by local and regional self-government employees. The limitation of the amount of money for salaries of 20% of the original incomes of the local unit's operations in the light of the small original incomes will certainly result in a reduction in salary, layoff of employees, and that, at the same time, because of the general situation in the whole country, there is no possibility for programmes of care. Countys that are users of assistance from the Department of Finance's division are in fact only a mediator and help, 70% according to cities and municipalities in their non-direct areas, and therefore the salaries of officials will have to be matched with the coefficients and basis in the state service, and the mayor's and deputy mayor's salaries will be reduced by 20%. We have an example of Krapina-Zagorian County. The aid amounts to 3.2% of total operating income amounting to 2.4 million kuna. 75% of that amount is passed on to municipalities. For this reason, I consider the proposal to be extremely detimulative in terms of the employment and work of officials, especially high professional equipment, and therefore it is very questionable to carry out quality tasks in the competence of local and regional units, i.e. their functioning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48148	Thank you very much. Next in line is Honorable Representative Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48149	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. As regards this law right away, I would like to say that I support the proposal of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government and I also suggest that the law goes into third reading, because I think it is a very sensitive law, not a law, but a law that regulates a very sensitive area, which is the salaries of local officials, officials, deputies. I am for criteria to determine. Yes, criteria should be defined, certain frameworks should be defined, especially when we have examples of how to use the best term, an anomaly that is inappropriate compared to the moment we are in. And we're in the moment we're at, and that's the homeless girl, so the problems, there's no money enough and there's something here anyway, just in time we should do it. Otherwise, I'm generally against it because it enters the frameworks of autonomy, the detour of the work of the local self-government units. Management in general. I think what we're doing today has already been seen in history. It doesn't matter if it's from the '90s. here or before the '90s, however, administrations have always existed, administrative jobs always have to work and administrative jobs must work professional, capable people who will be highly effective at the satisfaction of citizens. I've seen it before. Thus, what experiences are there in the lands around us. I'm talking about government in general, public administration in the Republic of Croatia. We have today, we all said, a large administration that burdens the spending side. However, the fact that we have a large administration, a number of administrations, we have to make sure that the administration works and, above all, in most hardworking people, people who do their job in a committed, fairly fair way, but they are not guilty that we have such a set of frameworks today. But around us administrations are small, efficient, rational and above all well-paid. I've always listened to examples since I knew, I've known these terms about how it's in the state service, the regional service, the local service of neighboring countries. First of all, I think that Italy has always been a particular goal for people to work in these services. Why? Well, because it was a well-paid place, a well-paid job, but in any case, these people were asked to do their job. The local self-government is working. Today we have as many municipalities and cities as we have. I have to say, personally, I am against the abolition of a municipality, but I am in favour of reforming the competences and powers of a single level of local self-government unit. Because he can't have the same competence in the exercise and authority of the smallest municipality as he has a big city. That's settled. I am for citizens to be able to manage through their bodies the money collected at that level in their territory. Therefore, I am for it to remain. However, let's go in reform to do and talk about competences, about the level of authority. There are different models that have been applied around us and should be done as soon as possible. We need to create an efficient and small administration, to get to a small administration, given the great number, it is no longer just a professional problem, but it has also entered the sphere of the social problem. Therefore, it will be necessary to seek solutions. Introduce in some way I have to say in quotes of a retrieval, I'm not going to say it directly and remind everyone in general it's not good. It is not good, especially not good, and I do not know whether anyone has said today in the Republic of Croatia certain duties in certain units of local self-government and status, i.e. the status of doing jobs in certain areas is not the same. So, let me be specific. It is not equal to doing jobs with the same salary in Istria, in one city with the cost of living in that part of Croatia, in another area where the cost of life is at least basically cheaper, because it is such a situation. It's the facts. Therefore, in the administration and in resolving the status of officials and this must be taken into account, especially in countries that have a long tradition of organising quality management, i.e. have one long-standing continuity in relation to us. I therefore also support the union proposal which is incorporated into the amendments which are components, meaning the amendment of the Committee on Local and Regional and Regional Self-Government. Therefore, that is to be taken into consideration. Yes frames, if someone came out inappropriately outside the box yes. But now to hit just as directly, and at this sensitive moment I know it's hard to talk about wages when saving is necessary at all levels. But then it should be approached in a certain way primarily with the frameworks to determine the percentages of the budget. So, to define as what I have to say, the law is improved compared to the first version. But I think there's still room and there's going to be a third reading, to improve that law. Because like today, this morning that law was very sensitive, we have to make sure that we don't call for injustice, not to call for trouble. Because we were witnesses, there were times when people were running away from local self-government especially at the stage when the economy worked, when development was present then people for wages were leaving the administration and the administration had problems doing their jobs. You know that regional and local self-government units have taken over from the state, or where the powers to carry out construction permits are down. We are witnessing here behind this speaker when the minister said that among other things was the problem, because they had accumulated thousands of cases in certain counties, that the problem was the pay system in the state administration. Here's where she said about that pay phone and that, among other things, those jobs were dropped. Local self-government, i.e. regional self-government, the problem is to find staff who will be well-trained to meet all legal conditions with professional training, with so many expert exams and now come into a situation where a system of rewards has been set in accordance with local self-government acts to get into the opportunity for people to lower their wages. People who are professional, able, will normally see if, the moment we are in, there will probably be no big problems because what is the problem right now is finding the right job. But wherever anyone can find who's quality, professional, if offered and a little more pay goes away. Right in the west, the state administration is always well, state and regional and local well-paid precisely because not only would there not be fluctuations and that the administration would not only be transient but that people who were there would do their jobs in a quality way, so if you want to, and that they were less susceptible to corruption, that is, to all the negative forms that appear. In this way, I'm not sure exactly about the burden, because several times here in the Assembly today we're talking about an inappropriate amount of pay by certain local officials. And in any case, in this situation, it's inappropriate, but we need to find a way not to get into the autonomy of local self-government on this issue and allow it maximum autonomy. So that a good intensity where we should set the frames, determine a space so that it doesn't turn to the opposite, to the opposite of all. Because I'm saying, in this situation, it's very delicate. Probably a lot of people will support cutting our salaries, taking off our pay. However, in the case of individual cases, it must not be generally meant to treat all officials, or officials, residents in local self-government. That's not right. I suggest a third reading or this law is still inappropriate to pass at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48150	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is also next to be held by the respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48151	So I'm going to go back a little bit to the Committee on Local and Regional and Regional Self-Government, where the Committee unanimously proposed all of these amendments, which are addressed to the session itself, and regarding the Law on Salary in Local and Regional Self-Government. So, unanimity regardless of party membership, because in that committee there are still people who work in local self-government units. It is also the opinion on this committee that, when drawing up this proposal, which represents a complete conversion from that first proposal which was also in the parliamentary procedure, it is not, above all, respected this code of consultation with the interested public in law-making procedures, and I personally do not consider it an analysis of the fiscal and social effects of this law. At the same time, I recall the Law on the Direct Elections of the Head of Local and Regional Self-Government, which, among other things, brought probably bearing in mind coalition relations and involving in order to say coalition appetites in power, brought in two new jobs in local self-government units. So the law defined that the deputy head of local self-government could choose whether to do the job professionally or not. I note, given that this is the third term for me, that even in the law itself and the day today, it is said that the deputies primarily determine the job, the job for which the mayor, or when the mayor is sick, are on the official path they are carrying out that activity, and even though it is, I am sorry that there is no Ms Petir from HSS, and even as Deputy Chief of the Municipality of Petlovac who does not come to work at all, but is asking for his salary, because he has the right to do so under the law. I believe that this law, first of all, is today, first of all, a blur to say, in this way, that it wants to throw away one part of the public, the public's focus and the problem of two or three salaries of individual local self-government leaders who, above all, have a higher salary than a single minister. However, I note that this number of local self-government employees, especially the number of officials in local and regional self-government, can be very easy to calculate, that it is somewhere around a thousand and 700 who, by law, can receive salaries, i.e. 577, and these thousands and 200 can choose whether to be professionals or not. But today the public really doesn't know what the number of assistant ministers, state secretaries, the number of agencies, and even a month ago, the minister himself didn't know that individual employees were moving from agency to agency, it was visible on all the media. Also, I don't mention that drivers who do certain other things like interest rates on the way. So today I wish that instead of this part that is in the autonomy of the units of local self-government we had discussed, because this law primarily leads to full centralisation, not decentralisation of Croatia, but centralisation, that we were talking about decentralisation, i.e. increasing and the opportunities of these units of local self-government through fiscal decentralisation. I note that if we really want to join the European Union that we will have to do this job one day and do it very quickly, because units of local self-government cannot be satisfied only with the increase in income tax, while the profit tax now ends in the central state treasury. He's gone to the company headquarters by now. Then we'll go down the gang's money a little bit, and we'll increase ourselves. However, many units of local self-government have been damaged in this way. There's certainly a famous VAT. So it is not the solution just to increase the VAT by 22, 23 or now as the government's advisers announce it we go and further increase it, but that VAT needs to be fairly distributed, between local self-government units, between regional self-government, between the country itself. With this law 40% of local self-government units won't work. So this law did not foresee the social impact it produces. I hope that a municipality there near the city of Djakova, in which 500 thousand kuna was invested, because the head of the municipality from the independent list went to HDZ, and then 244 thousand spent, out of those 500, on the team and the diaries, I hope that it will survive, even though the income is only 110 thousand kuna. And that's not the only example. I absolutely think that this division that's bound to big and small cities, I only remind you of '93. a year when, at least, the former president of the municipality, Djakovo municipality, said that the late President Tudjman himself was asked where Djakovo is, which Djakovo doesn't have a county. At that time, however, the president of the municipality was satisfied with the status of the city, but in '93. For years, that status got three cities, it was Vinkovci, Djakovo, and now I really don't remember which third city it was. Today these cities are 127. I heard right now that even the Guides who are the city say, when they come out at night, they don't say we're going to the city, but we're going to the village. An island in Slavonia is a city. It's always been a village. Skradin, the old Roman Skradona has about a thousand to 2,000 inhabitants somewhere, no features of the city, I don't want to offend anyone, etc. There's a series of examples. So the city does not make up the number of inhabitants, but it does make the characteristics of the city. There is certainly double-determined remuneration of cities, such as county headquarters which by some logic things shouldn't have been, since there are larger cities with all the institutions located in these cities, however it was done for so to say political reasons as well as the established borders of units of local self-government and 1993. I will mention only Gospić, who has the status of a large city next to the county headquarters even though he has 12 thousand inhabitants. So, a huge number of local self-government units, and I think that through this can be saved, but above all in local self-government units, and as one MP said here, this law does not really see the possibility that tomorrow some citizen will live better or that this law will allow new employment. New employment can only be made possible by a new economic decommissioning policy, a new VAT collection system, so not by this law of reduction or increase. Many, according to this law, will get an increase in their salaries such as the Mayor of Osijek or such as the Mayor of Đakova, who in 2001 made the first solution that reduced the mayor's coefficient, since they were not in line with that, but it was somewhere around 7.5 thousand kuna. Until then, he had 12,000 kuna. So, with this law above all, I believe that one is, as we have recently held a thief in that good habit, but rarely anyone who is, so to speak and caught, wants to shift the public's focus to a problem that is controversial for all of Croatia. And this law will not solve the accumulated problems in which Croatia is and in which many units of local self-government have been reduced precisely for the sake of stagnation of the economy, with an increase in unemployment, reduced budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48152	Thank you very much. The result of the exposure, one correction of an incorrect quote, two replicas. First of all, the esteemed representative of Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48153	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your colleague Vinkovic said 40% of the local self-government units will not be able to function under this law. That's not true. I don't know what kind of math you've calculated, and how did you get that result? A few minutes ago, your colleague, a colleague of ours, but your party colleague Kozlevac, he said that he was not for the abolition of any municipality or city, and now you speak as you speak. Make a deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48154	Thank you. ... It's around here, very close. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We have a replica, first honorary representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48155	Thank you very much. So here you have told your colleague Vinkovic that the Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government has accepted the amendments, so they have proposed amendments and are also accepted by representatives of the opposition and positions because they are all people who were or were in local self-government, so they understand the problem and have similar positions in the position of effort and decentralisation and the greater independence of local units in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government. But here's what we have as discussed by my colleague Shuica, and I note that unfortunately in the alliance of cities, and also in the Committee on Local Self-Government, it was not recognized because it was not in its own skin that the problem was felt, and this is the problem of the units that have part of their own units in areas of special state concern. Well, as we've heard, it's Dubrovnik, but it's also the city of Zadar, which has almost 90 thousand inhabitants. It has its original incomes, a large budget, but in one suburban settlement that numbers 800 inhabitants fall under the area of special state care and now the city of Zadar, the fifth largest in Croatia, will fall under this Article 15, because it will be covered by this achievement from the basis of the additional share in income tax. So that should certainly be taken into account. We hear some more, here are the municipalities of Clear, for example, which only 9% of their original income spends on wages, and will fall under art. 15, because it also has mountain-mounted areas. So, unfortunately, it is not sufficiently recognised in the alliance of cities and municipalities, but here I appeal to consider it once again and that the government has heard about it and that at least she notices this problem in cities, units that are in very little part involved in this particular state concern.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48156	Thank you very much. And the reply to the replica has a respected representative, Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48157	Dear colleagues, I will only tell you that I stepped forward, therefore, not me, but the city of Djakovo, then from the association of cities and from that roof association, or the alliance was then, and I thought that first of all without the decisions of the city councils, or representative bodies of the local self-government units, it could not have been established in the way it was founded. But that's a different story now. But it's an immediate answer to my colleague's box, so we're in one party, but we don't have to, not you and me, but me and Mr. Dino, but we don't have to think the same way. I claim that today without the help of the state, but not in a way that you can move in with us, so we will give you the money, that 40% of local self-government units can't function in the Republic and that all these budgets are spent exclusively on salaries. And by the way, here's a request from a former colleague of mine, a present colleague of parliament, but I mean former mayor of Dubrovnik and you, you were also the mayor of Zadar, that this is indeed illogical and that obviously this law should go into third reading. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48158	Thank you very much. And the replica has a respected representative, Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48159	Yes, look at this centralization that is now in action and the system in which the entire system is organized, so the administration and functioning of the state has led to the introduction of a term of decentralised functions etc. A term that was supposed to be temporary, at least should be further tightening economic opportunities indeed will come to an opportunity not 40 but perhaps more than one per cent of local self-government units that will not be able to function with their incomes because they are not there. The result is that we need to do a fundamental decentralisation. This means that all units of local self-government or all areas will be able to function exclusively with their original incomes and that there will always be a need for the central state to intervene with its means to survive. So what's up, then? Or abolishing units of local self-government, thus tightening the situation will increasingly be a criterion to be abolished because they have no income or need to be decentralised and introduced essential reform, but in the competences and powers of local self-government units. You outside have units of local self-government that have one, two men, but the competence of their business professional, administrative even in one part that must perform perform one other level in that wider area. So he's doing business in the area, etc., so there's a way. The worst thing to do is to end something because it causes revolt, it causes resistance of residents and citizens where many municipalities still got good results in this past period and where people have solved many things that they would never solve in the wider frameworks of the municipalities because these are experiences in the past that we have had. So we agree on that, but we need to do this job.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48160	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, MP Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48161	Well, you see, a colleague has begun to draw closer to my opinion. A little joke. I couldn't agree more. The only shift that can happen in Croatia is precisely that possibility of decentralisation but not the possibility of giving and lowering powers, but that Croatia must have a fiscal decentralisation. So it's not enough to give an increase in income tax, but there's a need to return the income tax. Well, that was also in the dungeon of the people of the former Socialist Federation Yugoslavia. The profit tax stayed where it was real. Today he's going to the state. In Europe, value added tax is shared in proportion to certain and laws but also in income where it is created. And local self-government units of regional self-government, as well as the state. Take an example of the European Union and see how much total tax resources are going towards the state in a narrow sense of the word, and how much remains for local self-government units. It'll be a wonderful miracle when you see that it's an 80% ratio for local self-government units 20% of the state. With us 8% including the city of Zagreb tax revenues remains units of local self-government 92% go to the state, probably so we can secure the salaries of these new 26 thousand employees who have been taken over the past few years.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48162	Thank you very much. And the previous debate is individual, respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48163	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'm actually going to do. I'm actually going to cut down on most of it because more is less and less is said. What I would like to emphasise is that public administration reform and decentralisation are two key tasks on Croatia's path to the European Union, and all of the most debates today have proved that although there has been a major improvement in the text of this law compared to the first ones we have received, it may be a shame that there has not been a little more will and patience to correct and some of the mistakes that are clear, obvious to which the Association of Cities and Trade Unions and Representatives and the SDP and HDZ and I appeal to the present minister to make this additional effort, these remarks are respected and to get a law that will be even more quality than it is right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48164	Thank you very much. And Mr. Representative Kresimir Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48165	I'm the last one. Dear Vice President, Minister, Secretary of State. So I have to take a few words to refer to this bill of wages and say that in any case I support the law relating to the salaries of officials in local and regional self-government. For this reason, there were certain logic that some mayors had higher salaries from the Deputy Prime Minister and even some mayors had higher salaries than the Prime Minister. However, I must say that we are not all equal to this bill, which refers to 215 municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia and 80 settlements covered by Articles 14, 15 and 16. These articles, for all those municipalities and cities with special state care or mountaineering status, must automatically place salaries at the level of salaries of civil servants and tenants. I don't think we're even in this because I don't think we're all spending the same and we're not all doing the same for sure. I have proposed an amendment which unfortunately was not accepted, where this inequality would be resolved in such a way that all those municipalities and cities from the title of the mountain-mountan and special state care, and here is colleague Lovrin said she would hit Zadar, Dubrovnik and Osijek and not to list some cities. If I speak to them from the original incomes without those supplements provided for in that title they have, they do not exceed 20% of that law i.e. Article 16 shall not apply to them. Here's my example and my community where I'm chief, and we have the status of mountain-mounted areas, unfortunately, my employees and tenants will have to pay civil servants. Why do I say sorry? I don't think civil servants and tenants have enough to pay. And we don't have to put everything in now if we already have civil servants and low-income tenants, so we don't have to put these 11 grand on those little salaries right now. But here's my amendment not accepted, and it would solve everything. It means that they really don't spend on original incomes or 20% to rank other units of local self-government that don't have the status of mountain-mountan or special state care. I'm asking what's wrong with budget users' salaries? We also talk about companies that establish local self-government units. Communal companies, kindergartens, public fire departments, libraries, museums, not to mention now they are excluded from this, which is totally fine and I agree. They don't need to be reduced. But since I, as chief of staff, will have to fight for the budget, and I have to charge it except for those original incomes that I don't know from my salary tax and that I don't speak for everyone else, but I have to make an effort to collect the communal fee, to collect the communal contributions, to collect all those taxes that are prescribed by law, and which I have to charge by the citizens, how I am now going to have, thank God that aunts or kindergarten teachers have a high professional allowance of 6 thousand or 6.5, I now have to give to my staff with a high professional capacity of 4000 or 4 and 200 salaries. It's hard to justify, it's hard to justify it now and say here you will have such a salary, and these budget users will have 30 or 20 or I don't know 15% higher salary. I don't think that's right because how to stimulate these employees who work in local self-government, who are daily with their citizens, who are from that environment they came from, they didn't come to me to work at Bistro, I don't know where they're from, but they're from Bistra, who we know each other, and we and my employees work in the office, and not eight hours for their salary, but they work nine and ten, and if they need weekends and the only way to stimulate them with pay. This way we won't be able to do it anymore. The same thing I have to say, the state won't get much of this. He'll lose from the title that he'll get less income than a salary tax, pure logic. Local self-government will get more municipal or city budgets or county governments, but I still ask how we're going to stimulate these people who work in these companies. And what I have to say is 80% of the minister, 80% of these employees are women, it's women 80%. At least it's male. Most of them are commissioners, etc. But, Officer, the tenants are mostly women. We have to take care of that. I also wonder who will spend with small wages and how we will keep highly qualified people in our local self-government. Here we are, opening up the pre-accession funds of the European Union. So they need to be professional people who will prepare the documentation, who will prepare everything they need to get out of these European funds. Here, we are being shown a billion and 600 million euros for regional development. I'm afraid that as soon as they find a better job, they'll unfortunately go to some private company or go to a public company or a company, or some institution, because they'll certainly have a much bigger salary there. I agree with my colleagues here that there are certain municipalities we don't need. There are really municipalities, we got this one report that they spend on wages I don't know and 6% more than they should, they don't have income to pay. But we need to be aware that by getting both municipalities and cities, I'm talking about most of the municipalities, a lot has changed in certain environments. As my colleague said, there wouldn't be a morgue, there wouldn't be a plumbing, there wouldn't be a sewer, there wouldn't be any social home or playground. A lot of things wouldn't have happened if some places hadn't gotten the status of the municipality, i.e. that they have the property of a legal person. That's what this is all about, so they have some kind of financial income that they can handle. So you need to take care of who's working and who's not working. Well, I'm just an example of why we put down construction offices that were within the state administration at the county level. Well, that's because we couldn't raise their salary. And we couldn't get construction engineers and architects to work in these offices for 4 and 5 thousand kuna. And then we dropped on purpose at the level of counties and larger cities so that we could solve unsolved items that were hundreds or thousands per individual offices where investments from housing and to production, etc. And that's why we did it so we could pay them more. Here, unfortunately, I'm afraid we won't be able to do that. I wouldn't argue anymore, it's already been said a lot here in the debate. I have to say, I've been talking to the minister. I hope that at some point this law will suffer certain changes, that local self-government units will be given the opportunity to municipalities and cities that work well in the interests of their citizens to somehow be rewarded. I have to look around here, the other day there's a journalist in a daily newspaper, I'm not going to name a journalist or a newspaper, explain, comment on one of my statements, and then he says, "He's not yelling for the gravedigger, he's yelling for himself.". Well, I'm not yelling for me. I will live much easier with 8 thousand kunas as long as I will have as chief than my undertaker with 2 thousand kunas, much easier to live because according to the new classification according to the jobs that my undertaker will have to pay 2 thousand and 200 kuna. He's commenting isn't too hard work. It's a hard job for that man who has to work at minus 10, minus 15 or plus 30 or 40. How am I gonna find him? If he's got more credit, he's better off going to the stock market. What I have to say is that this law didn't solve one problem. You didn't limit my municipality to how many people I can hire, and now you're giving me the chance to have seven employees, I have seven thousand employees, I have seven employees. six employees and one employee. You've given me the opportunity to hire seven more and everyone will have a small salary. So I have to allocate a lot more funds from the salary budget for those employees because you haven't limited my number of employees. You said 20%. I'm out 9% now. So I still have 11% at my disposal, and I'm going to have to hire them because I'm not going to be able to stimulate the employee to work for three thousand kunas as she worked for five and worked overtime that she didn't write and worked longer. I'll just have to hire some other employees. With this I will increase the cost and expenditure of the budget because I will have to secure the funds for the salaries. And that's not the only problem. I also need to secure a space where your employees will work.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48166	A colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48167	Vice President, I had to say some things here and here's my final debate. And I hope that the ministry will see certain problems and will try to correct and determine in my opinion the illogicalities that I am under the law. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48168	Thank you very much. Two replicas. First Mr. Agent Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48169	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I felt the need to replicate my fellow Gulic because these days we talked a lot about it as well as with other colleagues because I come from the area where there are micro-region Gorski Kotar, nine local communities are all in the mountainous and mountainous area. And here I would only add to what my colleague Gulić is and many have talked about it today. So we have two types of such local communities, those that with 20% can solve their needs but they have to take off their salaries and we have those when you refuse them this part of the income tax they get, and on that basis they're going to have to cut their salaries. So far, we haven't been able to find any experts, say, building engineers and these other employees and experts, how to do that. Therefore, that should also be taken into account, I also told the Committee on Local Self-Government Mr. Secretary of State. I see that this has not been taken into account, and I think that we should reconsider and see, at least approximately or one proposal given by another committee to increase it from 20% to 25% and still meet in some contexts. I did, and I think it should be limited in certain cases, but these local communities were all acting within the scope of the possibility that the local community with its salaries would not go beyond the state of the economy in the local community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48170	Thank you. And Mr. Agent Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48171	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear fellow MP, I sign everything you've said because you've spoken from experience and you're a good acquaintance with the functioning of local self-government, especially the importance of a role in smaller environments that must never be disturbed by the mind. And when I used to talk and say that those units of local self-government have achieved their function, they have a place and a role to play. It's all gonna happen what we talked about. They were alive and seen. We'll meet for a while, I don't know what and we'll see the problems that will happen, from the fluctuations of employees, from the departure of people, from the inability to find professionals, we're looking for highly educated, capable, good people, etc., and we're limited to multiple times the resources we have in the existing area. Therefore, these will be the problems we will unfortunately face. I repeat again, unfortunately we are doing this in this situation, burdened with the state of public administration, i.e. the number, size, etc., with the financial problems we have to monitor such administration and unfortunately with the anomalies that have been happening in this situation. All of this has created both the public and the overall structure of society a sense of burden with this situation and now in a way we are going to solve these things in another way that I find inappropriate. We need to meet and discuss the competences of certain levels, do an analysis and make up nothing new about what they said outside. Not every municipality must have professional competences and perform, it can be carried out by the nearest city, for this is a condition of decentralisation. A certain part of the original income will go to the larger unit of local self-government that will carry out professional affairs, but the essence that citizens through their small administration in the municipality decide on their financial resources, make plans, direct money where they should be made. That's the point and there's the savings. And while we have community and city competences as the lowest to the greatest, then there are problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48172	Thank you. And final review, Minister of Management Davorin Mlakar. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48173	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I apologize, I haven't been all along, but a fellow secretary of state has been following since the start of the debate, so I'm not going to look back at all the comments and suggestions that were made in the debate. But I think I'm going to have to say something, first of all, thank you for estimating this text of the law better than the one that was in the first reading. Secondly, I think it is important to say, I will have to say again what we said at the conclusion of the debate in the first reading of this law, and it concerns the constitutionality of this regulation and the compliance of the regulations with the European Charter of Local Self-Government. In view of the fact that this law does not comply with the Charter and the Constitution, the question is always why such comments have not been made so far, given that the arguments are the same. The argument is that the central government cannot edit wages at local level. In 2001, the government passed a law restricting and fixing salaries in local self-government. Since then, no question of the constitutionality of this regulation has been asked, and I think there has been both time and opportunity. And I'll tell you why there's no constitutional question. Because this law does not violate the Constitution or the Charter of Local Self-Government by determining the frameworks and wages, it is likely that the authors of the earlier law also consulted with European practice and found that most European countries also regulate salaries at lower levels and local self-government units. As for the story that we should have gone out with the new territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia, I think that all those who have spoken in their debate about how it is possible to do this in a month or in a few months have not realized at all the seriousness of the problem of the new territorial structure and one serious analysis that will show which units of local self-government or regional government have at all been able to achieve their basic functions, the basic idea of providing services to their citizens will therefore be achieved on the analysis carried out by the Ministry of Administration and which we have announced not bomberically but with the intention and the idea of making a basis for making political decisions. This job, unfortunately or fortunately, will take another six to seven months for the analysis to be serious and could present data on which political decisions could be made. And just by the way, these data are over 500 data on every unit of local self-government that needs to be collected, processed, compared, used for analysis that would provide a basis one day for deciding what really should be changed from the territorial structure in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, we cannot come quickly or without serious preparation with a proposal for a new territorial structure. There have also been comments in the debate on the funds transferred to units of local and regional self-government, which relate to the conduct of operations transferred to state administrations. It is, therefore, primarily the issue of building permits or the confirmation of major projects. These wage funds are not included in these limits so neither these officials nor those funds will burden this 20%. What the Civil Officers' and Deputys' Trade Union has proposed are, among other things, rates up to how much of the unit's total income procedure should be taken into account so that wages in those units should be determined accordingly. And since this law was made in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, we feel that there is no need for such a differentiation of these salaries. And now I'm going to say what no one has said, and I think it's important enough, or some of us might have put some personal contact on us. Well, it's not exactly such a punishment that those who use the resources of the state budget get paid as civil servants. So state officials live and do their job very seriously on these salaries that have now become a bauk to everyone else because no one wants to compare even those who use the same funds from which civil servants are paid and paid. And, as you can see, let me take a personal note that no one else has spoken of these civil servants whose work has not been compared to the work of local officials you've all talked about in superlatives. I have to say, it's not inconceivable for me to compare the salary of civil servants to the salaries of locals and I don't think that locals are more valuable or that they do harder jobs than civil servants. However, I would rather believe the other way around or so should be the greater the responsibility and, at a higher level, probably their knowledge should be greater. I also wish that in all units they were really able to do European projects. From our experience, we haven't been fully organized at national level for the time being. That time is yet to await us, and what is important and what was the government's intention in proposing this law that we have no reason to go into the third reading. It is not to create savings, but to start introducing order to introduce order among other things and to rank all these state and local officials, and then of course because it is almost always the basis for determining rank and their wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48174	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Dino Kozlevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48175	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary. That's exactly what you said that bauk is currently paying civil servants to coordinate with the salaries of local officials. I'd just say, here's the problem that the civil servants of particularly low-level storage are underpaid in relation to officials in local self-government units. He's not going to deal with these being taken away and be in league with these. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48176	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. on the agenda Report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy for the period from 21 May 2008 to 30 May 2009. The applicant of the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48177	3, Final proposal of the Payments Act in local and regional (regional) self-government, second reading, P.Z. No. 415, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted amendments. In accordance with Article 166. The Rules of Procedure on amendments submitted must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendments? Please raise your hands. Who's in favour of this proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? A single vote with 106 votes has accepted the proposal. I ask the Government's representative to explain the government's amendment to Article 15. Mr. Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48178	If you permit Mr. President, the same argument is given in addition to the amendment to Article 15 and Article 16. It is about the limits we have introduced for the calculation of salaries in local self-government units, so if they can give an explanation for both, because one article is about the salaries of the executive body, and the other is about the salaries of officials in local self-government. So, in addition to the restriction that local self-government units can spend up to 20% of their original incomes, we have introduced another correction, i.e. the possibility of improving their state of affairs in a way that does not include those aids they receive from the state budget that are up to 10%. Therefore, they would add in Article 15 and Article 16 to the following words: "in which the amount of current aid exceeds 10% of the unit's operating income." Therefore, all those units of local and regional self-government which transfers from the budget receive up to 10% should not, in accordance with Article 14, reduce the salaries of the executive and its officials and subsistence holders.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48179	Thank you. I am opening a debate on the first and second amendments, so we will decide on Articles 15 and 16 and we will decide separately. Here you go. Any interest? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the amendments to Article 15 tabled by the Government. Let's please get involved and vote on the first amendment. The result? The government's amendment was accepted by most votes, 89 votes in favour, 9 abstentions and 1 against. And the vote on the second amendment to the government. Please include and vote in article 16. The result? The second amendment was accepted by most votes, 92 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and nothing against. The review of the other amendments is divided into benches. The amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted before the conclusion of the debate shall become an integral part of the final proposal for a law on the basis of Article 169. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and we do not vote on them. I would ask the proposer's representative to take note of the remaining specific amendments, which is an amendment to one component. The Committee on Local, Regional Self-Government. Amendment two.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48180	Therefore, the amendment of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government referred to who was authorised to propose a base for the calculation of salaries and the head of the executive authority and officials. The original text stated that the representative body was responsible for this. The Committee for Local Self-Government suggests that it be the head of the executive authority. We think that regardless of its budgetary and budgetary performance function, it would not be good for the Head of the Executive to de facto determine his own salary, so the proposal is to partially accept the meaning of this amendment in the way he is already in this amendment of the Government to Article 3, which is that, both the basic and the coefficients for the account of the salary, brings the representative body to the proposal of the Head of the Executive Authority. So, the mayor, the mayor, or the municipal chief, if that's acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48181	On behalf of the Committee on Local, Regional It's accepted in this statement as it is, well. [[/Intruder: We accept. We accept.]] Thank you. Third, the Prime Minister's amendment has already been accepted and submitted earlier. Fourthly, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government on Article 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48182	That's the same explanation, Mr. President, that I gave in an earlier article. Therefore, which bodies are authorised to make a decision on coefficients and bases. In both cases, we propose that it be a representative body on a proposal from the head of the executive authority, or a unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48183	The board?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48184	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48185	Thank you. He was accepted in a statement as the minister explained. Fifth, Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is not voted because it is an integral part of the proposal. Sixth, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government on Article 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48186	The government doesn't accept the amendment. Do you need an explanation? We have again taken into account this objection in this amendment of the Government to Article 11(1) of the text in order to compare the salaries of the one we took from the state service and the leaders and employees of the local self-government units without increasing for work experience. So, to compare to say naked pay, base and coefficient without increasing for a work internship. That was also the meaning of the amendment of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48187	A representative of the board?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48188	Let's take it back.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48189	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal 7th, Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government on Article 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48190	The government does not accept the amendment, because this amendment would de facto mean that this mass of wage funds is set for officials only, and that the salaries of all executive heads are excluded from that mass. We think it's enough space in this 20% for everyone to establish their salaries the same way and that's why we don't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48191	Thank you. The board?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48192	We're pulling back.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48193	Amendment number seven shall be withdrawn to Article 14. The eighth amendment to article 14 of Representatives Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmic and Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48194	The government doesn't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48195	Do you have an explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48196	Well, it's the same explanation as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48197	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48198	Mr President, the proposed amendment we have tabled also includes resources, so staff resources, resources achieved with the basis of an additional share in income tax and aid for balancing the financing of decentralised functions. It is indisputable that the funds are achieved from the basis of the additional share in income tax and help to compensate for the financing of decentralised functions of the dedicated asset that monitors the transactions brought from the state to local and regional self-government units and constitute the income of units of local self-government under the Finance Act, rather than aid from the state budget. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48199	Thank you. I pray by raising my hands who is for this amendment fellow MP to Article 14 which the Proposer does not accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. The ninth amendment to the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not voted because it is already an integral part of the proposal. The 10th Committee on Local, Regional Self-Government on Article 15?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48200	The government does not accept, and the amendment is to what the Government has again edited on Articles 15 and 16 with its latest amendments. I'll explain that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48201	Thank you. The board? Thank you. [[Intruder: Pulling.]] This amendment has been withdrawn. And the 11th amendment to article 15 of Representatives Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmic and Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48202	The government doesn't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48203	He doesn't accept the amendment. An explanation of at least one sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48204	Well, it's about the same thing. Here's Mr. Representative Grubisic to say. This is about not leaving the 20% limit as stated in the government's proposal, but being a percentage of the share of that aid compared to the total budget revenues achieved in the previous year. We did it the other way.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48205	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48206	Well, this approach actually determines the height under the allegations of penalties for receiving aid from the state budget. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48207	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? By raising your hands. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 12th Amendment to Article 16 Committee on Local, Regional Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48208	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The purpose of these distributions was to resolve those first amendments to the government that I explained, so all those who receive up to 10% of donations, or aid from the state budget, will not be, will not be necessary in those units to cut salaries to the state level. So this is just a bigger development, and we think we've already solved the problem with those government amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48209	Thank you. The board? This amendment has been withdrawn by the board. 13th Amendment to Article 16 of Representatives Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmić and Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48210	The government does not accept that amendment. Again, de facto, the same reasons I cited and with this explanation for the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48211	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48212	Well, we have the same answer as the third time I've had this debate. Namely, the proposed amendment to the salaries of officials and deputies in the units of local and regional self-government referred to in Article 15 of this proposal is methodologically and in principle determined in the same way as the salaries of mayors, mayors and mayors, i.e. it is reduced in proportion to the reduction of the salaries of mayors, mayors and mayors. That's why we think we're asking for a vote on our amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48213	Thank you. Who is for this amendment please raise your hand. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I 14th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 26.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48214	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-17-0.u48215	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Thank you very much, Minister. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Salary in Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This Final Bill on Payments was adopted by the majority of votes, 73 votes in favour, 7 abstentions and 20 against, together with the amendments adopted. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We continue to work, but before we move to the next item of the agenda, I would like to inform you that we will interrupt session 15 to 11 and ask you to reunite at 11 and 10, so that you can go back to your offices, etc., for the reasons of the inability of individual exit from the Assembly, and for the need of timely taking place on St. John's Square. Mark. So we'll end up 15 to 11, at 11 and 10 we'll gather at the assembly and then head there to the marked places on the square. Please make the clubs, here are very few representatives, so that the clubs are informed. I can do it again a little later, but here we go. We move to the agenda announced, point - - The report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Anti-corruption Strategy for the period from 21 May 2008 to 30 May 2009 Carrier: The National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy The National Council submitted this report on the basis of Article 2 of the Amending Decision and the Supplements to the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic, president of the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy. Here you go.
