ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59818	Thank you very much. Let's get to the agenda. - Final draft law on the termination of the Act on the Regional Development Fund of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 605. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, you received reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Ivana Maletic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59819	Honorable Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. As regards the Law on the Regional Development Fund of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Law on the termination of the Act on the Fund for the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, what is important is to point out that the termination of this Fund is related to the provisions of the Budget Act which entered into force 1.1. In 2009 and which has already announced the abolition of the budget funds, because the process in the Treasury has progressed in a way that is more efficient in managing budget revenues and expenditures, so that it can be followed closely without the specific establishment of the Funds for use and activities financed from these specific sources of funding and their purpose in practice. So, in fact, the abolition of the Fund is one of the processes that has already begun and the new Budget and Regulation Act is actually areas of public finances. It is therefore stressed in this Law on the termination of validity that the work and affairs of the Fund are being taken over by the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59820	Thank you. I will inform them during the day about this SDP Representatives' Club proposal to address the prime minister or the foreign minister. If they haven't already been notified. Especially no time. The Legislative Committee? Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, President of the Committee, Honored Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59821	The Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy shall comply with the provisions of Article 88. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament held the debate on that draft law in the capacity of the home working body and the majority of the members of the Committee did not object to the proposal of the applicant in the application of the emergency procedure for its adoption. The applicant's representative explained the reasons why this Law should be adopted pointed out that it would enable the implementation of the plan for the implementation of the economic recovery programme adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is one of the measures and the reorganisation of agencies, institutions, funds and other legal persons with public authority. After the opening presentation of the proposing representatives, most of the Committee members supported the adoption of this Act in the debate, since the unreal insistence of the regional development fund of the Republic of Croatia, which was established in 2001. It is pointed out that operations related to regional development and the implementation of concrete projects are already successfully implemented by the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. On the basis of the debate held, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament, by a majority vote, 4 votes for and 3 votes against, that the Law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia should be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59822	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club Mr. Zastavnik Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59823	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So we are here in a very strange situation, because the government is offering us, as part of economic recovery, to abolish various funds and various agencies. One of those funds that should be abolished by law is this Regional Development Fund in the whole series now something that we're going to end. We have now heard from the secretary of state that it is not because of it, but that the Government has long before it has adopted the economic recovery programme, and in the budget for this year, that it will go to the rationalisation of the state administration and that already at the beginning of the year it was foreseen by the budget for this year that one of these funds will be abolished, and this is about the Regional Development Fund. If that's the case, then the question is why wasn't done immediately in the first part of the year, why does it have to be done like this on a horror, why does it have to be done in an emergency procedure and why does it have to be done with an unknown date? Because as you can see in the bill of this law, the fund is said to stop working on the day of the publication of this law in the National Journal, so we don't know when that date is. If there's really something planned, and it's here in the end about the fates of the people who work in that fund, then even if it's correct to tell them, look at it, and you won't be working in the fund anymore, but you're becoming civil servants and tenants. This is how they can literally get us to declare this law on Friday, to have the law published in the National Journal next week, and to say, by 29.11., stop working in the fund and become civil servants and deputies. So when you open only a part of these questions, then you really see that there's no system here that doesn't even have any talk about economic recovery measures, that there's no talking about the efficiency of the state administration, that there's absolutely no talking about anything, but that we can only say that we're creating an illusion that we're doing something. So let's do something and let's try to show the citizens that we're working on the efficiency of the government. And when you open this autumn leaves a little bit above this law, then you see the following, that the headmaster of this fund has already fallen in quite nicely. He went from this fund to the Governing Council of the Croatian Regulatory Agency. It is usually very similar to working in regional development or regulating energy activity in Croatia. These are highly compatible activities in the world commonly known as something very similar. Then when you open the leaves further, then you will see that at the same time in the Ministry of Regional Development a new administration is opened to arrest another party official at the head of the administration and that a large administration is being created within the Ministry of Regional Development, where we will open not only to the people who have worked in these two funds, but we are likely to employ some new people until the election because here we have opened some new activities. We, in parallel, also have the establishment of a regional development agency. if the Agency for Regional Development is something we need because of pre-accession funds, later structural funds, then we should say, people who have worked at the Regional Development Fund have probably learned something, probably worked on these regional projects, probably working on the preparation of local and regional (regional) self-government to raise administrative capacity to make it able to report projects to the European Union funds. So let's not put these people in civil servants and tenants, but let's move these people or offer them the opportunity to go to work at a regional development agency. So we're here from a fund that was founded in 2002, which means it's been working eight years, like this on the neck, on the nose, we're cutting people off, we're putting them in the ministry. The ministry has so far covered an absolute spectrum of ministry jurisdiction. This law does not extend the jurisdiction of the ministry in which these people are moving to work, but they get a certain number of people. Look, in the light of this law, we don't even know how many people are working in this agency, we don't even know how many people are going to work in the ministry, we don't even know if and when any of them are going to become unscheduled because the law stipulates that work is being offered, but for those who in the future won't be able to get a job to stay unscheduled, which means that de facto these unscheduled or placed at the disposal of the government, we translate it into Croatian, threaten to get fired and all by emergency procedure and everything with people we don't know, we don't have any analysis, we don't get any letters from the ministry, but not a single letter, which this fund has been doing in these eight years, and will now be cheaper, more efficient, better, more accessible, or otherwise, the only we know that we don't need any additional funding from the state budget. So if they don't need extra funding from the state budget, then why are we doing it? But it is also said that neither the need for the state budget to function for what the Regional Development Fund has today covered will be reduced. Then why do we do it? Are we just working to create a real illusion here that we're thinking about the efficiency of the state administration? Are we working because we need to open up space to get a job or do we really have a certain goal of allowing regional development in the Republic of Croatia? We have adopted a strategy, we have a law, we have a ministry, and instead of systematically seeing what we need right now to train regional and regional self-government and local self-government, to raise that administrative capacity, we are removing the fund. Instead of seeing what we need to balance Croatia's development and this regional development of Croatia, we are abolishing it without any arguments from the fund. Finally, we can think that this is good, but we can also think that this is bad because we don't have any arguments either for or against, we have no argument that this fund has done so far, nor have we any indication of what it will do, how and with what human resources and other resources the Regional Development Agency will do with. When we look at the structure of the money that this year had, for example, the Regional Development Fund, then it is seen that out of 3 million and 400 how practical the execution was to pay almost half of that amount. So if nothing else, this transaction will require amending the budget because it is absolutely certain that the Ministry of Regional Development will not have sufficient funding for salaries at the 11th, 12th month because it simply does not have that in its budget, as it is quite uncertain what will happen with those activities and projects that have gone through the Regional Development Fund so far. We have a regulation that was passed under the law that we are repealing today, under which certain funds have been allocated through the Regional Development Fund. Since we break the law today, that this law is not today, but when we declare it will cease to apply then it will certainly cease to apply and the rule on the basis of which these funds were allocated. Does that mean that everything that's been applied to the fund so far, and it's not realized that it won't be. And secondly, whether this means that by the end of the year, demands to the ministry or the fund can no longer be filed, but to the ministry for what has been submitted so far. So, we propose to stop this, to make one analysis, and here we are particularly sensitive to local self-government, regional self-government and regional development because we believe that there is a huge potential that depends primarily on how much we prepare these people in local self-government to exploit unsustainable sources of funding in the European Union. They are as unsanitary as our ability to write quality projects and to apply to these quality projects. We will have a very soon report on the use of European funds this year. You will see that the figures are particularly devastating in some segments, but on the other hand, we will see that everything available to local self-government within decentralised European projects that local self-government has 100% used and not only has received projects but has quality and realised them as opposed to what was on the state level. We're standing there almost catastrophic, almost catastrophic. And on the other hand, we are not preparing anything to do at a time when these funds will be significant and larger, or when, not significantly and more than when we will be able to participate equally in the application of these funds with all other members of the European Union, so that our municipalities, cities, counties, regions, regions will be able to participate equally in the candidateing for European funds with all other cities, counties and regions in the European Union, and not in this little cookie that we now have. Then the question is, how are we going to be able to use it? Instead, instead of exhausting ourselves in activities to train in Croatia enough resources for this future period we are doing a style exercise in which we want to tell the people watch, we are now abolishing the fund. Imagine how big we're going to do, we're cutting off the Regional Development Fund. What are the effects we do not know, the savings certainly do not exist and we know that this will certainly result in the new love of party people. These are the reasons why the SDP club simply cannot support such a return-application of laws by an urgent procedure that we do not know why they are brought in, where we have the dissonant explanations of the motionor and what is written in the text that we have received here on the benches and where we do not see absolutely any effect. We therefore call for consideration and for the simple, especially as regards local, regional and regional policies and self-government, to act within the framework and in line with the strategy adopted, and in particular to work towards raising the administrative capacity of those who will be able to apply very soon for very significant funds from the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59824	Thank you. HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59825	Honorable Vice President, State Secretary, fellow MPs. So this is exactly what the Government is showing by this move that it respects and implements and implements the Economic Recovery Programme, and that is one of the measures of public administration reform that analyzes the impact and purpose of the existing structure of funds, agencies, institutions and other regulatory bodies. In determining the purpose of the work of individual funds, agencies, institutions and other legal entities with public authority and the creation of a proposal for a reorganisation, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken care of the same tasks already carried out in individual ministries. Since the Fund for the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia and set up the Government in 2001, it has also established the activities of the Fund in such a way that it is well known that the activity of the Fund has been mentioned here that it does not know what the Fund is, in fact, what it is doing, and the mission is to finance initiatives that encourage the balanced regional development of the Republic of Croatia and support for the counties and units of local self-government in the preparation and implementation of various projects. The Fund has also financed projects for municipal infrastructure, economic infrastructure, business zones, business incubators, rural development, rural tourism, drainage, etc. As for the European Fund, which was also mentioned here for regional development, Croatia will only be open after Croatia joins the European Union and prepares through the IPA programme. The European Fund is mainly focused on production investments to create new jobs, infrastructure investments, and on local development and development of small and medium-sized enterprises. So this story about some style exercise normally does not stand, because the Government of the Republic of Croatia is aimed at austerity and established reforms in the economic recovery programme and is transferring jobs to the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. The Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy will also take over all employees, equipment, rights and liabilities of the Fund as well as the financial resources needed to carry out the tasks undertaken. So it doesn't seem anywhere that those jobs that have been concluded but with this fund simply won't be completed or simply there's someone going to be damaged. Following this law, it is proposed that the funds be abolished on the date of entry into force of the same law, and that within 15 days the competent ministry coordinate its internal body acts. So, there's no concern that those people who have contracts with the fund and who are meant to be in a working relationship and who will be civil servants will be out of work trying to panic here amongst these people. Normally, the Croatian Democratic Community club in order to rationalise the public administration that has been so concerned and that everyone is asking both employers and trade unions, as well as the opposition and according to this economic recovery programme will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59826	Thank you. The club of representatives of HNS, HSU Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59827	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party club and the Croatian Pension Party will not support this bill, not because the bill is not good. How good is he that we actually don't know, because that the government respects its business provision, which is that every bill gives us an impact assessment that this law will have, and then we would have that information. But we don't have that impact assessment, we don't usually have any laws, and we certainly don't have one here. The fact that we heard in the introduction of Madam Secretary of State that this was the result of the budget under the Budget Act. However, it is also a fact that this bill was passed by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry of Administration and that this was the result of a reorganisation that it wrote in the programme of economic recovery in that powerpoint presentation. However, what effects, how and how this will reflect on the local administration will we see in time ahead of us. The fund itself was founded in 2001 with the aim of fostering uniform development in the Republic of Croatia. The Fund's mission was to finance initiatives that encourage balanced regional development in the Republic of Croatia and support the counties, units of local self-government in the preparation and implementation of development projects. It was a trust mission. How successfully this fund mission has been used in regional development over the past nine years, I think it's clear to everyone that it's half as well. Because regional differences between us from year to year, day to day are getting bigger and stronger, and that is the conclusion of the Regional Development Strategy. So, something we all know and something we all know. Whether to abolish this fund by joining the Ministry of Regional Development, whether it will increase efficiency in encouraging regional development is an open issue. How and in what way 80 million kunas will be directed as foreseen in the 2009 budget in the Regional Development Fund, we are also not aware of regional development, infrastructure and economy and we are not familiar with this law. The Fund Act itself also knew the units of local administration, primarily municipalities, cities and counties, I repeat and accentuate the county, they knew the rules, knew what opportunities it could use. How it's going to benefit in the future, you don't know that. How this will be reflected in the preparation of the closure of this fund, and above all, I underline the planned 80 million kuna in the 2009 budget. How it will affect the use of pre-accession funds and later structural funds. Whether to increase the capacity and ability of local (regional) administration units in writing programs, in creating programs, in creating projects with which we will be able to use or exploit the potential or something offered to us. And we don't have any answers to that. Our Committee, Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy held on 28 February this year a thematic session on the basic guidelines of the Strategy for the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, which we addressed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Some of our conclusions are included in the Regional Development Strategy, however some are not. But what's certainly not at this point, which is that there's not a single conclusion in the implementation. Among other things, we have concluded that one of the key factors that will determine the effectiveness of the implementation of the strategy... Development of the Republic of Croatia... [[You don't understand.]] and the administrative capacity of the county and local levels for the preparation and implementation of EU funding projects. [[You don't understand.]] The Croatian government's measures left municipalities and cities and counties without part of their income. They don't have any income. So everyone responsible would give these people municipalities and cities and counties the opportunity to turn their project ideas into concrete documents, a concrete application based on which they will be able to use both pre-accession and later structural funds. Furthermore, we have concluded, among other things, that the specific problem in the application of effective promotion of regional development is the fact that two systems of fostering regional development are currently being implemented in the Republic of Croatia. First, the EU system, currently implemented through the IPA programme, which marks a high demand for project preparation and implementation, a very elaborate and transparent system of selection and monitoring and evaluation of project performance. And the domestic system, with different incentives and grants from national authorities for the implementation of development projects at county and local level, but often with unclear project selection criteria, an undeveloped system of monitoring and evaluation of performance and the non-connection of projects with strategic documents. That's a fact. Did we change that? Has anything in place been based on this conclusion of the Committee on Regional Development? Will abolishing this fund and joining the ministry resolve this system? To abolish the domestic system and allow everyone starting with the central state, regional and local, to operate on the basis of EU criteria, precisely because of their duty, precisely because of potential. Therefore, it is not disputed for us at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired, is not a disputed rationalisation. She's necessary and necessary. But what is behind this legislative proposal is not evident, this legislative proposal does not make it visible, and taught by experience, past experience, especially often very discriminatory criteria based on which projects are financed at local and regional level based so on. The home system, it's saying that we're going to do more damage to ourselves. And finally, the fact that, through the 2007-2009 IPA pre-accession programme, we were supposed to use 30% in transport by September 30th, we agreed 30%, we agreed 1%. Protecting the environment by September 30th was supposed to be a 30% deal, we agreed on 1%. By September 30, we were supposed to contract 50%, we agreed 18%. The development of human potentials by September 30, we were supposed to contract 50%, we agreed 38%. I repeat IPA for the 2007-2009 time period We in the central state have great people doing this job, great people, but they don't have the ability to make a political decision. They don't have those options. And based on a political decision, the Regional Development Fund is abolished, belongs to the Ministry of Regional Development, and point. What's next? I speak exclusively in the context of raising the potential of local and regional administrations in writing projects and programmes for the use of pre-accession funds and later accessible, and above all structural funds. If we're in a 1 to 38% situation, according to the criteria we used IPA today, in environmental transport, regional... The development of human potential, something between 10 and 15 times smaller, means the amount between 10 and 15, I don't know now exactly, but between, because the data is different, so it's very difficult to get to the exact figure, but something that is between 10 and 15 times less than what we're going to use in a year and a half, thus threatening us with a real danger something that the Croatian People's Party, the Croatian People's Party club and the Croatian People's Party of Retired People's Party constantly warns, gentlemen 2012, in 2013, we won't be in a position to use European funds, but we will be in a position to pay the European tax, direct damage to our budget. [[You don't understand.]] At the state level, we keep things closed, they are secret, regional and local administrations do not pass on information, we do not give regional and local administration the opportunity to strengthen their financial capacity in writing projects and programmes, and all of these pre-accession programmes are known to be successful, and we bring ourselves and the state budget into a very, very difficult situation. I repeat, we have a whole series of great people doing these jobs at the central level, but they're helpless. They are unable to make a political decision, because the policy makes a decision we go to abolish the Regional Development Fund, we attach it to the Ministry of Regional Development and point. What's going on? I think it would be a minimum of decency to have representatives in the Croatian Assembly of the Age and that information. So we support any action, any activity that creates the possibility, specifically in this case, of giving opportunity to municipalities, cities and counties. Yesterday I am talking to some of the commissioners, first of all, people received instructions on how and in what way, in which frameworks to write the budget for next year, it is known that by introducing a development index which is an excellent move in the categorization of municipalities and cities that will enter assisted areas, and it is known that hilly or some of the municipalities and cities that are in mountain status are losing that status because their development index is more than 85%. When do they lose him? Are they losing him next year? Do they lose it in two years, in three years? If he loses it next year, and he does the budget by the old one he's... In particular, in one municipality the budget is less than 2.5 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Did we give information to those commissioners, those mayors when they lose that status? No, we don't. Therefore, the whole series is unknown, I think that the Croatian public, primarily local and regional administration, has earned a very clear, concrete and time-defined guideline. That local and regional administration has earned the opportunity to use its development potential in the best possible way because they know it best, far better and better than the central state. Finally, and the Regional Development Strategy, we gave this opportunity, and I think it is far more powerful and more important when we talk about encouraging regional development one such way, with the strengthening capacity to use funds so that we don't stay in 2012 the payer, not the user, far more important than such legal proposals, which may be good, but with this explanation, it is very difficult to support them. And for that reason, the HNS-HSU club will not support this legal proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59828	Thank you. HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59829	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. In 2001, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established a Regional Development Fund with the aim of fostering uniform development in the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Parliament declared the Law on the Regional Development Fund the same year, and the primary task of this fund was to finance initiatives that encourage balanced development in the Republic of Croatia. Today's debate on the announced abolition of this fund will be discussed on behalf of the HDSB club from the perspective of Slavonia and Baranja, the end which we represent in the Croatian Parliament. So nine years ago, there was an alarming fact of unbalanced and unbalanced development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia. The deficit in development occurred primarily in the end of Croatia, which suffered the biggest casualties and damages in the Homeland War. It was more than clear that the most funds had to be invested in these regions in the postwar period in order to reach the rest of the Republic of Croatia. In this sense, the expectations of Slavonia and Baranja were justifiably high. After the vast human sufferings and the war on the devastation of the economy, their hopes that the sacrifice they suffered were not in vain and that they followed the days of a better life for them and their children. Slavons and Baranians waited patiently for help and did not yet welcome her. Slavonia and Baranja were once the richest and most developed end of the Republic of Croatia. It was an area where it came from all over the world with "the belly after bread" in search of a better life. And this better life in Slavonia and Baranja is most often and found. Today Slavonia and Baranja is the poorest and least developed part of the Republic of Croatia. The end of the search for a better life has become the end of which young ones leave in search of work. The villages are getting deserter, schools are getting empty. Peasants are getting more and more on the roads instead of in the fields. Workers instead of factories on desks or strike. This is not the kind of Croatia that the people of Slavonia and Baranja died for. Slavonia and Baranja are made up of 5 counties, accounting for 20% of the population of the Republic of Croatia and 20% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The balanced development of the Republic of Croatia means that the state budget in Slavonia and Baranja is expected to have at least 20% of investment funds each year to avoid falling further behind other parts of the Republic of Croatia, and to reach them it is clear that much more investment is needed. And what is the real situation, and what is the relationship between the Central Government and Slavonia and Baranja? It's the least embarrassing thing to say. Here are the indicators that unwittingly confirm all the truthfulness of these findings. I'll only analyze the period from 2006 to today. In the national budgets of the Republic of Croatia, between 2006 and 2009, 39.3 billion kuna were secured for current aid and capital aid and capital investment. The even distribution of these funds would mean that Slavonia and Baranja justifiably expected at least 20% of these funds, which is 7.8 billion kuna. And what did we get? Instead of 7.8 in those years, Slavonia and Baranja received 1.8 billion kuna. Not even 5%. It's 4.5%, actually. For the region in which 20% of the population lives, which accounts for 20% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia and which suffered severely in the Homeland War less than 5% of the state budget provided for capital investments, capital and current aid. Only on these items were Slavonia and Baranja denied 6 billion kuna. He doesn't know if this is any more embarrassing or sad. So how come you don't just keep falling behind the rest of the Republic of Croatia, let alone catch up with them. This is how it's been these years. How's it going today? He mentioned, it seems to me Mr. Kunst in his debate, the government's economic plan to get out of the crisis. It's a good thing you mentioned him. It is known that four weeks ago, the Government of the Republic of Croatia presented the Croatian plan to exit the growing and deeper crisis with a document called "Investment Projects of Interest for the Republic of Croatia". 30 investment projects worth 13.8 billion kuna have been presented. Such a plan should have triggered the faith of all in the Republic of Croatia to have hope of salvation. And what hope did this and such plan bring to Slavonia and Baranja? It is over for not believing out of 30 projects that are of interest to the Republic of Slavonia and Baranja nowhere. More specifically, it is mentioned by a so-called. a project that appears for the fourth time every 4 years with a phantom and famous channel of Danube - Sava. Of the 30 projects of interest for the Republic of Croatia Slavonia and Baranja is represented only with so-called a project that has become a synonym for the upcoming elections. It was last mentioned by Minister Petar Cobankovic on 5 December 2006 when he announced a pre-election campaign for the 2007 parliamentary elections. From then on, not a word to this day, and now this is the investment trust that Slavonia and Baranja need to get out of the crisis. That's terrible. So if, by some miracle, this project of building this 61.5km long canal and for which it takes 10 years to come, it is a frightening knowledge of the insolent relationship between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Slavonia and Baranja. Of the 13.8 billion euros in investments contained in the economic plan, this project is worth 950m euros in the Danube-Sava channel. So if it was achieved as the only project envisaged for Slavonia and Baranja it is 6.8%, and I repeat 20% of the population and 20% of the territory, and this is the even development of the Republic of Croatia. Investments that are of interest to the Republic of Croatia do not go easter than Virovitica. What Milosevic so-called. JNA and Chetniks failed in the war, establish a border on the Virovitica, Karlovac, Karlobag and thus divide Croatia, the Croatian authorities headed by HDZ in economic terms made it after the war. To Virovitica can, east of that, not of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, as if we are an unwanted child, or as the people say 13. There are those who will say Croatia is divided into three statistical regions and cannot be viewed by Slavonia and Baranja alone. The division into three statistical regions implies division in northwestern Croatia, which accounts for 37.38% of the population of the Republic of Croatia, then the Adriatic Croatia, which accounts for 32.16% of the population and in Pannonian Croatia, where Slavonia and Baranja are located with 30.46 inhabitants. Of 13.8 billion euros in government investment projects of interest to the Republic of Croatia, here is how it is divided by regions. A total of 51.32% are scheduled for north-west Croatia. For the Adriatic Croatia 36.66% and for Pannonian Croatia total projects for 8 counties amount to a billion and 259 million euros, respectively 12.02%. We are not jealous of anyone in Croatia, but what's not fair is not fair. And to say that we do not have projects in Slavonia and Baranja, I will only give an example of Osijek-Baranja County. When the 2010 budget was adopted, we nominated a 271 project worth 2.38 billion kuna for the state budget. We've put 42 amendments to the draft budget, worth another 2.5 billion kuna, and all our proposals have been rejected. For the 2011 budget, we have prepared 246 projects worth 2 billion and 200 million kuna and we know what fate we can expect for them. And how long? Then how come you don't remember the lyrics of the song, Slavonia, that you're to blame, who's to blame for the tambourine playing? Those who like to say we're running a policy of conflict with the central government, I'll remind you of one fact. Slavonia and Baranja have 5 counties, in 4 it is in HDZ, for now only in one and that in Osijek-Baranja, and so far, it is not HDZ but HDSSB in power. The four counties in which HDZ is in power are the most underdeveloped and poorest counties in all of Croatia. And that one county in which the government is not HDZ but HDSSB is the most developed is Slavonia County and in the middle of the development of Croatian counties. So much for the benefit of silenced obedience and suffering injustice under the exception of party discipline. In the Croatian Assembly there are 28 representatives from Slavonia and Baranja, 14 from the ruling HDZ, 9 from the SDP and one from the HSS and one from the HSP, three from the HDZ. In the government we have three ministers from Slavonia and Baranja, vice president of the Croatian Parliament, is a very powerful HDZ, who is Slavonac every 4 years, and nobody but the HDSSB believes that this relationship with Slavonia and Baranja is at least not fair. And what benefits Slavonia and Baranja may best be given by their ministers in the government by the next amazing fact. The Republic of Croatia won the 2012 World Cup Household, Agriculture Minister Petar Cobankovic, Slavonac, signing a contract with the president of the World Orac Organisation, to host the 2012 World Cup in an orgy that will be held in Croatia, has designated no less or less Biograd at sea. We can probably expect that the next World Tuna Fishing Championship, which Croatia receives, will be held in Kopački rit. And who makes who crazy? Not even the script for the show, for one of the episodes of the popular series "Crazy, Confused, Normal", would complain about the interesting plots that can be met in the decisions and decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, especially when it comes to those related to Slavonia and Baranja. And today we have before us a proposal for a law on the termination of the validity of the Regional Development Fund of the Republic of Croatia. By the end of 2008, the institution invested 713 million kunas in projects across the Republic of Croatia, implementing regional development promotion programmes. Of this, nearly 190 million kuna was invested in 5 Slavonsko-Baranja counties and this is the only positive example of state funds investment in line with the number of inhabitants and areas that Slavonia and Baranja take in relation to the Republic of Croatia. And now we need to lose it. One of the few institutions in the Republic of Croatia that has helped the balanced development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia, today the subject has been eliminated under the pretext of implementing public administration reform measures to achieve the economic programme of recovery of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And what was little is right, this disastrous Croatian government is unreasonablely and ruthlessly destroying, and again the greatest damage to such decisions will have the poorest and most undeveloped among which Slavonia and Baranja are certainly the most affected. When Branimir Glavas, Vladimir Šišljagić and Ivan Drmic in the Croatian Parliament rebelled against the permanent holding of Slavonia and Baranja on the waiting list, when it came to investment in our region, and when the HDSSB came into existence that talked about the necessity of equal and equal development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia, we were then declared as state enemies, destroyers of constitutional and legal order and anti-state elements. Today there is no serious political option in the Republic of Croatia that did not say what we spoke 5 years ago. And then HDZ's all-powerful leader and dictator, today identified and located but still not arrested and transferred to Remetinec criminal and thief Ivo Sanader, with the silent but active help of then and today still ruling, all of us who have raised our voice against such a relationship with Slavonia and Baranja not only to try to resort to a pillar of shame, but also began a ruthless political persecution before all against the founders of the HDSSB, Croatian general and hero Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59830	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59831	I'm bringing the end. He's succeeded temporarily in a criminal enterprise.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59832	Thank you. You've brought the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59833	But the other day he said, "Whoever digs under another pit falls into it himself."
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59834	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59835	He wasn't just thinking about himself then.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59836	Comrade Buric, please, you're done.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59837	Allow me to finish, Mr. Chairman. I am not here by your will, as you are not my will.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59838	Thank you very much. Please leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59839	I'm just finishing up.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59840	You can't finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59841	I can finish, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59842	You can't finish anymore, you're done.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59843	That's why it's going to the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59844	Thank you. A fellow Buric,... Mr. Buric. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59845	And their joint transfer with once loved and worshipped water route of Remetinca. The time has come.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59846	Mr. Buric... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59847	I'm done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59848	A dozen rectifications of incorrect allegations. First Mr. President Borsy Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59849	Well, my colleague Buric incorrectly said that four weeks ago, the government of the Republic of Croatia presented an economic recovery programme. A fellow Buric, 4 weeks ago, the government presented major investment projects of importance for the Republic of Croatia, and the economic programme has a far greater width and weight which should in any case find solutions to how to get out of this economic situation and how to stimulate development in the Republic of Croatia. And as for the realisation of these investment projects, the thirty that the government has spoken of, logically depend on much on the project documentation that's a good part where it's done, in principle, and go investment. And as far as I know, the government is seriously considering Project Danube-Sava-Dunav.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59850	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59851	Mr. Kunst was talking about something I wasn't talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59852	Excuse me, what article?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59853	... /Speaker disabled./... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59854	Excuse me, what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59855	You can play with the off, you won't play with me here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59856	Your Honor, what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59857	The breach of the Rules of Procedure because he wasn't correcting my incorrect claim, because I'm correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59858	I'm sorry, that's how you just got into the Parliament. There are certain regulations that must be respected, and that's our timetable we have. You have to study it well, so you'll see that this way of correcting an incorrect quote is perfectly fine. Let's move on with the debate. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure to the Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59859	Mr. Chairman, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59860	I'm sorry, you can't argue like that. Don't make a mess in the assembly. Let's move on with the debate. Your Honor, I'm going to have to warn you. Don't do that, please. I'm sorry, Mr. President, you can't discuss with the chairman that way, Mr. President, you can't, and you can't. You have a Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliament, so you'd be wise to study it a little bit. Your Honor, I need to give you a heads-up to interfere with Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59861	I thank you and stay with my... /The speaker is off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59862	Your Honor, this is not your normal behavior in the Parliament. Let's move on. The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59863	Thank you very much. Well, here's a esteemed colleague and colleagues, I can't be here, not reacting to fellow MPs at the same time. I also come from Slavonia and correct the incorrect allegations where he said Slavonia was threatened. A coworker's Slavonia is not at risk. The truth that there's more resources wouldn't be bad. But I come from Požeko-Slavonska County where I want to say that all the projects, all the cities and municipalities and the county that have been run by the Government of the Republic of Croatia have been implemented. And this is your rhetoric in this congregation, not that it draws near to Slavonia the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but that it distances it from all things. Because this kind of rhetoric and speech that comes from your party exclusively politically, is not welcome and does not fight for Slavonia, fellow Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59864	Thank you. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59865	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In a series of inaccuracy and an incorrect allegation that projects only reach Virovitica and that there is some famous Serbian landscape or large Serbia. It is absolutely incorrect, the entire Virovitica-Podravska County is covered by projects and it is done and created in all areas of infrastructure, road infrastructure, municipal infrastructure, from schools, higher education institutions, to those plumbings and sewers that are most needed and most necessary. Also in your Osijek-Baranja County, which you say is the most developed of all four undeveloped. It's where it's being built and built. As much as... It didn't turn out alone there, like all the tours of your cities, but these are not your projects, so you can't even boast about them and therefore you feel guilty about performing such a rhetorical performance that it says that Slavonia and Baranja are totally neglected, that there are no projects from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that in this economic plan they are also neglected... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59866	Thank you. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59867	All cities and municipalities in Slavonia and Baranja. That's absolutely incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59868	Time! Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59869	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Buric said that Slavonia and Baranja are nowhere to be found. Mr Buric and I have known each other from the Assembly of Osijek-Baranja County for five years, I am a councilman there, and several months ago the mayor of Osijek-Baranja County had a report on the work of the mayor for the past period where he praised the co-operation with the ministries of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, particularly the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship, crafts, small and medium enterprises, agriculture where he stated that the most funds were withdrawn by the Osijek-Baranja County. All the major infrastructure projects that have come to the City of Osijek and the surroundings of Osijek and all of Slavonia and Baranja have just been financed from the state budget of the Government of Croatia and I don't think everything is so black for Slavonia and Baranja and if we are so pessimistic I don't think we will see beyond our threshold, let alone at the door of the European Union. So... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59870	Thank you! Correction of an incorrect allegation, the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59871	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Simply this, I must say, Mr. Buric, your exposure should be completely corrected, embarrassingly and politically. I don't live in Slavonia and Baranja, but I do go there very often, and recently I have been and I must tell you that you forget that these Croatians and defenders who were and cooperatives are defensive, but also the way it develops is much invested. It takes more, it's true, but very much. You forget that in the last two years, the Ministry of Tourism has invested very much in the tourism of Slavonia and Baranja, so in continental tourism where thousands of people are coming today, new jobs are opening up. You forget the 700 milk cow farm, 420 of them are now male, the largest milk production they have. Don't laugh at your colleagues. It's Slavonia and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59872	Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59873	Which you don't know about because you do...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59874	Thank you! You're out of time, thank you! ... Thank you. Your time is up. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59875	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I am correcting the incorrect allegations of MP Buric who said that the government's insolent behaviour towards Slavonia is not true. It is the funds invested in the entrepreneurship zone, in the municipal infrastructure, in Slavonic, and the incentives towards agriculture speak the opposite. The government does have an understanding of Slavonia's needs. And here I would also mention in the rebalancing of the state budget this year, although large savings have been made in the ministries, 600 million kuna has been additionally provided for Slavonia for agricultural incentives, 300 million kuna for damages from natural disasters or floods. Therefore, take care of Slavonia. And as for the fact that Vice President Shakespeare only comes every four years when the elections are true, that's really incorrect. He is constantly in Slavonia, constantly communicating with entrepreneurs and favouring the development of Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59876	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivo Škaričić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59877	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to correct a quote from Mr Buric, which is that the people of Slavonia and Baranja did not fight for this kind of Croatia. I think it's incorrect and it's a very dangerous thesis that essentially comes from other circles, and it tells how much it really meant for the Homeland War. I am fully convinced and confident, like everyone in this House, that all Croatians and Slavonia and Baranja fought for an independent, independent and free Republic of Croatia, and that it is indeed so we all know [[Intruder: But prosperous.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59878	Please don't throw it away. ... Please, no benching and no polemics in the benches. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59879	It is important that Croatia is free, independent, so we all fought, both you and I. We're coming to the European Union, so like it or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59880	Thank you very much. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59881	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of my colleagues, Buric, who claims that Slavonia and Baranja are nowhere in the Croatian government's programmes. I will not rephrase it, but by argument I will correct its incorrect allegations because on Monday, a contract was signed in Slavonski Brod, which began the implementation of the water supply and disposal system project with a wastewater treatment device for Slavonski Brod and surrounding municipalities. This is the first major project in Croatia from the water economy envisaged by the Operational Plan for 2007-2011. The project is worth 29.65m euros and is co-financed by the European Commission as part of the IPA for Regional Development with 51%, while the other 49% are provided by the Croatian Government, i.e. the state budget and the City of Slavonski Brod. And fellow Buric, you can talk about your county, but you have no right and you do not know the good situation in other Slavonian counties.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59882	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59883	After this step, I think we should consider in the Croatian Parliament instead of the institute of correcting incorrect allegations introducing the institute to correct the entire speech and all the allegations that a certain speaker in the Croatian Parliament is saying. A fellow Buric, as always, in his appearances...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59884	Correction of the quote, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59885	Well, I should correct all the allegations of my colleagues, Buric, but I don't have time because everything he said is incorrect. Speaks, he exclusively tells them about the neglect of Slavonia and this Croatian Parliament from Osijek brings here a new national style of speech and tries to introduce it into the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59886	Thank you. And finally, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška, the correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59887	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Buric has made everything crazy, but I'm going to try to correct an incorrect assumption. He says Slavonia has lost the funds she has received so far from the Regional Development Fund. That's not true. The funds will be available to all under the same conditions, under the same criteria, within the framework of the Ministry of Regional Development. All projects that should be prepared in this case by local self-government units will continue to have the possibility of funding from resolution ministries, and the problem is that some units of local self-government as the capital of the county from which I come Požega-Slavonski and the town of Požega have no prepared projects, do not run for the invitations of the ministries and afterwards say that they are of course neglected, that the budget of the Republic of Croatia does not receive funds. The local self-government units are first on the move.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59888	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It's our guest, Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. I shall also inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired at 10.39 minutes for the application of the debate for a period of ten minutes. It's the Honorable representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59889	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will still stick to the bill that we are discussing today on the termination of the Law on the Regional Development Fund of the Republic of Croatia. It is known that the Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia provides for an analysis of the purpose of the existing structure of agencies, institutions and other regulatory bodies as one of the measures of public administration reform. Based on the results of the analysis carried out, I stress the analyses carried out, so not on the mind of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made a decision on the reorganisation of agencies, institutions, funds and other legal persons with public authority. That reorganisation of agencies, institutes, funds and other legal entities with public authority has also proposed the abolition of the Regional Development Fund of the Republic of Croatia in a way that the activities of the Fund are taken over by the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. That ministry will take over the employees, equipment, rights and obligations of the fund, and the financial resources needed to carry out the tasks undertaken. In one word, the fund remains to operate within the Ministry of Regional Development in a way that is under the authority of the Ministry of Regional Development. As is said with the acquisition of assets will also take over equipment, the Ministry of Letters, other documentation, means of work, financial resources, and the rights and obligations of the fund and will practically not come to an end in the distribution of funds provided for regional development from these positions. A few words about the fund's work so far. The Fund's work was aimed at a balanced development of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the lagging areas of the Republic of Croatia. However, during the determination of the criteria that local self-government units must, with which local self-government units can use the funds of this fund, some illogicalities have occurred. What exactly is it about? One of the criteria and conditions for the use of funds for units of local self-government was the tax revenue of the local self-government unit per capita and the condition that it is less than 75% of the average of the Republic of Croatia. This condition rules out the possibility of using the funds of this fund a significant number of units of local self-government precisely in areas of special state concern. So, it is precisely those whose resources are most needed and because local self-government units as well as the first and other groups are known to them that remain higher rates and nominally higher tax revenues in local budgets in the war-torn areas, in areas of special state care and therefore tax revenues per capita in these units of local self-government become slightly higher than 75% of the average of the Republic of Croatia. This was not a proper criterion and I hope that in the future it will change in favour of local self-government units in the area of special state care. It was fortunate that there were not always enough prepared projects in certain counties, so these units also came in an opportunity to run and to participate in non-small funds, meaning more than 700 million kuna has been placed in different cities and municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and I hope that, with a little more correct criteria, this job will continue to work successfully in the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. For all this, I support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59890	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Nevenka Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59891	Thank you, Vice President. Here I will agree with you, colleague Huška, that there are certain unusualities related to the criteria of the Regional Development Fund. But I will try to show, for example, that good co-operation could also fund exactly those projects that are important for a particular unit of local self-government or for a unit means regional self-government. Zadar County is a candidate for projects, of course, taking care of strategic objectives in its strategic documents, and according to the strategic documents of the Republic of Croatia in the competition of the Regional Development Fund, which was called by the Fund to run for just those projects that will be raised, or even regional development. So in Zadar County, so far, 36 projects totalling about 36 million kuna have been financed through the Fund, of which 32 million kunas have been granted. It also means 4 million kunas of credit funds. It went into water management projects, coastal recoverys, collectors, road infrastructure. However, what I want to stress here is that it is also a great value of employees, so people from the Regional Development Fund, which is an exceptional potential and which will hopefully strengthen capacity. They're not going anywhere, they're staying at the Ministry of Regional Development. They will strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Regional Development and will continue to be available for advice to all units of local and regional self-government and thus further strengthen the capacity of local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59892	Thank you. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59893	Thank you, colleagues. You've given good cooperation to local and regional self-government units. I come to you from this unfortunate county where unfortunately there has been a three-year change in the government, where at the county level the county led, or ruled the county of SDP. In those three years, there was no concrete co-operation between the county and city authorities, except, of course, in the units of local self-government that coincided with the SDP county authorities, so we were in a position to contact the Regional Development Fund directly in two years, and it was good that people and professional staff in the fund were ready and for such direct cooperation. Because we'd probably lose two, three years without any means at all. Here today is confirmed exactly what you said again and in our county, the county is organising projects of the Regional Development Fund so far and in the future through the Ministry of Regional Development and I hope it will be so in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59894	Thank you. Before further discussion, I would like to inform the Committee on Education, Science and Culture today at 13:30 has a session in the Chamber of Stjepan Radić (1133/1). We are continuing with an individual debate, and it is up to the distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59895	Since January 2004 The Government of the Republic of Croatia came before us to the Parliament with draft laws, and on average every fourth draft law contained a provision on the establishment of some new funds, institutions, agencies, or other legal entities with public authority. I often asked the question of what are the criteria, arguments, calculations or reasons why in Croatia we establish so many different funds, institutions, agencies, when there are institutions that could do that part of the job. The proposals for these laws were never clear criteria, nor clear arguments, but were always called for by the government's decision or will, that the establishment of these specialised legal entities would achieve better, greater and more quality effects. I tried on three occasions to reconstruct how many Croatian funds, institutions and agencies there are. I first used the budget of the Republic of Croatia, counted 28, but then found out that it was not a final or exact figure, because some of them are not direct users of the state budget, so they are not visible there. Then using the Internet and search engines, I found 33 funds, institutions, agencies or similar legal entities with public powers, and again I found the third time that it was neither a final or a complete figure, because in some government reports or the start of a debate on the need to eliminate some of the knowledge of some I didn't know about, and they weren't in the budget, and I couldn't even get a list of them on the Internet. Now, in the context of the proposal to abolish the Regional Development Fund, the Government writes, quotes: "In line with the above conclusion, an analysis of the structure and the part-time agencies, institutes, funds and other legal persons with public authority has been carried out, taking into account the legal property of the European Union and the obligations of the Republic of Croatia." Is Madam Secretary of State that analysis that the government has declared a state secret? Is this analysis a document that has been polite to give to parliamentarians, as an argument for all of these bill proposals, which include 10, which remove funds, agencies, seduces or other legal entities. Is it an integral part of this analysis a list of funds, institutions and agencies that existed that day and that will survive after this rationalization? Is the content of this analysis a financial impact? Because if according to the provisions of this law, the ministries take over all the employees' items, equipment, offices, then the impact of the financial large will not be. Could it have been appropriate for this analysis to be as comprehensive as it says, analyzed and given one possibility that we might have some suggestions for the mergers, abolishing or setting up of the new institutions that the government had predicted? Why is it such an insidious argument now that they are abolished, and with the same amount of tenacity the representatives of the ruling majority defend the abolition, as they were then, and this was not 20 years ago, but two, three years ago, they defended the establishment of very numerous funds, agencies, institutions and legal persons with public powers. What changed in terms of functioning? What has changed in terms of the obligations of the Republic of Croatia as part of negotiations with the European Union, that we now have enough capacity in the existing state administration, and two or three years ago, there were no. In the area of agriculture, food production, we have ministries, and funds, and they seduce both agencies and chambers that overlap on all grounds, and we started with a hand and a hat when someone negotiated and negotiated. And that was warned here, that we have a hyper production of these agencies and institutions, and what matters is which of them correspond to the government for their work, which to the Parliament. Over 75% of these institutions, funds and agencies are not responding and are not reporting their work to the Parliament, but to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And that's another handicap for us in the Parliament, because by adopting the law, we allow them to be established, then we don't know anything about them, or we only find out when different affairs or problems are opened in the media. So far as the government has said, we don't need them anymore. I find such an approach to the unserious, irresponsible government towards the Parliament, that with one single statement of argument, we don't need it anymore. How much money has this fund had since its founding until now? How did he deploy it? Who were the users? What effect did he have? Who was that anyway? What team of experts was it that convinced the government that it should now be abolished? Based on what? All that remains for us strangers. We have to trust the government that the fund no longer needs it, as we had to believe when it was meant to be founded. And that's the only argument you have to trust us. We've done an analysis that we need something now, and now we've done an analysis that we don't need it anymore. Can we get an analysis? No, I don't. What's the content of the analysis? Never mind. Who did the analysis? It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. I'm giving this assessment to this bill, but it's worth everything you've come before us, and you're proposing to lift something. That's unserious. Because every cost of establishing, forming, establishing an institution in itself is the cost of starting. The same as the cost of shutting down, abolishing, transferring, moving, or giving as part of another resistor. And I end up next, you could at least try today orally to answer the fundamental question of what about projects that are processed and approved in the fund and unrealised? Or those who are in the fund for consideration, in the decision-making process or prepared for the procedure? These bureaucratic formulations of the bill do not answer that fundamental question. Because of those from local self-government whose projects are there and are not realised, and they are approved or in the processing phase, just give or confirm or deny everything that is in the fund will be realised or will not be realised. This response must be made clear by programme and project applicants. You didn't write or say. At least that's what I'm asking you to do, and any such proposal where users are local (regional) self-government, business and economy, that's the first sentence you have to say to remove that uncertainty from this process, and I'm shutting you down, I'm setting you up.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59896	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is Honorable representative of Shima Lucin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59897	Thank you very much. Well, I would agree with most of Mr. Lesar's discussion, but I would allow myself to add more. Mr. Lesar, I think it would be good to admit one thing after all, and that is that the government has seen its mistake, so as it has forced the formation of different agencies and funds so that now a little bit of them give up. However, there is one problem that is being re-accessed in a non-selective way. We don't know by what criteria one fund or one agency is shutting down, and the other one stays. And that's what makes the situation actually the same. Therefore, there will remain a discretionary right to distribute certain funds and to run certain projects of those who are similar, and not to those who really need them. But notice, I'm glad to see that we are still facing a situation where the government, after how many years, admits that it has done one stupid thing with the mass establishment of agencies that are only a great cost. Unfortunately, the abolition of these agencies will not actually contribute in this way to reducing the cost.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59898	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59899	My colleague Lucin, you are now trying to draw me onto whoever confesses half of him is forgiven. ... But around here, that's how I figured it out. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'd be willing to take that approach, but only on one condition. To send this analysis to Parliament as a accompanying part of the arguments under the set of these laws. That would be a confession. We ran into ourselves, we made a hyper production of institutions, now we see that it's not a good idea, so let's take a step back. And as evidence, this analysis. Then I'd forgive half of them. Without that analysis, no prominence can forgive them.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59900	Thank you. Second replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59901	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Lesar, what you mentioned, which is that the establishment of agencies, funds and similar institutions was due to better work. I mean, that was usually the argument at the time, but it was different bodies of different ministries. They usually came out after some new law was passed so that we had a lot of new funds, institutions, agencies, etc. Today, these abolitions are joined together as justified and mergers are justified as a measure of public administration reform. However, the basic question that all these changes and redistributions do not answer the basic question is whether all these people will work better, better address the issues they are set up for, for issues that should be realised by their work? Why is that a basic question? Well, the question is exactly from, like with this fund, and with many of the institutions that will also be spoken of, did they carry out their mission? The purpose of each reorganisation should be to meet as many projects as possible, in this case with this fund. However, this means that there are more private investors, that funds from certain funds are accumulated and realised. If that is not regrettable and this kind of suspension of such a fund is usually going to be the shooting of empty and no new changes afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59902	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59903	I assure you that in the proposal to abolish agencies, funds and institutions there would be some more, but there was a problem that some of them were obviously not even able to find their headquarters in Zagreb. So long as we don't get a list of funds, institutions and agencies that remain or remain classified by the portfolios, I'm not sure that the government at the moment of deciding on this bill or the set of these laws had that list on the table and saw the whole list.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59904	Thank you. And we have a replica, the esteemed representative of Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59905	Thank you. From the last system, ideological education left me with a syntagma that sought to explain the contradiction of the development of self-management and strengthening of the state, and the syntagma roughly says, "The state dies by being stronger." So in the new democracy, we also directed the development of society through pre-institutionalisation, i.e. the establishment of various institutions. And among other things, we've established funds that, as you say, we don't even know how many of them there are. So the removal of this fund alone would be nothing bad if it meant rationalising the entire state administration. However, there is another problem here, that we have done all this without any strategy, and that is thus confirmed by the words of the Prime Minister himself several weeks ago who said roughly because of this emerging crisis that we will finally have to think a few years in advance. Well, for those of us who do politics, that's a terrible thing to do, so when we plan our home obligations, our household when we run things a few years ahead, let alone when we run the country. And that's what's the problem and what's happening to us is that the whole country is collapsing.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59906	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59907	I'll remember... the strategy, so we can get answers to questions based on it. But lately I hear that in Croatia the most common answer to the question is "Why? Because I said so?". It is a ruling strategy these days in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59908	We are continuing with an individual debate and it is up to the distinguished representative Frano Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59909	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As regards the draft law itself, the economic recovery programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as one of the measures of public administration reform, also provides for an analysis of the relevance of the existing structure of agencies, institutions and other regulatory bodies. The Government of the Republic of Croatia also concluded on the implementation of activities related to the reform of the state administration and established appropriate guidelines. In any event, in accordance with that conclusion, an analysis of the structure and part-round of agencies, institutes and funds and other institutions has been carried out. The organisation said the Fund's tasks would be taken over by the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, too, the ministry would take over employees. Equipment, rights and obligations of the Fund and the financial resources necessary to carry out the tasks undertaken. When we talk about the Fund then we should certainly say that this Fund was established to improve projects and how, in particular, local self-government. Here today, through the rhetoric of many colleagues, it is especially said from opposition lines that the Fund is abolished. YES, the truth is, he's being abolished and he's not being called what he's been called by now, but he's joining the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. What are we gonna get with that? We will get that this former fund will be even more connected to the ministry that is taking real care of regional development. The ministry, which really has the task of taking care of the even distribution of funds throughout Croatia, will therefore bring the former Ministry Fund closer results to local self-government units. All of us who speak here today should not speak in a political dictionary, we should not raise tensions in this House, because we are witnesses, everyone in our midst from which it comes, which is and how it has now been done. I come from Požega-Slavon County in which I responsibly claim, regardless of the exposure of my fellow Buric, especially as he says it because I am sure that this and how the public reports away Slavonia from all the projects, I can freely say that Požeško-Slavon County has projects and that not only in this year, but also in recent years they have had their own realization. Of course, the projects that were subordinated to the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme and, of course, that we have been participating in the budget of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as much as possible. I agree that Slavonia is not like the Adriatic, that the continental part of Croatia needs far more resources than it has ever received but the question of how much resources we have in the state budget, especially when we speak today during the global and economic crisis. I would certainly like to stress here the meaning of the so far Fund that has just had projects for the needs of local self-government, and as mayor and representative in this House of Higher Education, I have used the funds of this Fund maximum throughout the county. By joining the Ministry of Regional Development Fund, we come to the realization that through the programmes that are reflected through the Ministry of Regional Development, we will come safely to greater funds and by linking the Ministry and the former fund programmes, I am sure they will benefit most from the unit of local self-government. I will give just one example of my day-to-day city which has 13,000 inhabitants who today have 48 projects and which are exactly the link between the Ministry and regional development and the links between the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear friends, we cannot be like this and say that certain cities and municipalities do not receive funds, and here we have an example in my Požega-Slavon County of the town of Požega, which points out daily that there is no cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that they do not receive any funding for programmes, and at the same time they do not implement programmes. Right in Požega, and I have the right to say it, because I come from Požega-Slavon County, because maybe the town of Požega is the only one in Požega-Slavon County, and the wider one who rarely has any project, and of course there is nothing in it that I am extremely concerned about. Unlike all of my cities of Pakrac, Lipika topleternica, I repeat once again where all projects have been implemented and especially from the Ministry of Regional Development and certainly from these funds that will be attached today to the Ministry itself. When we talk about other projects, then I can certainly say that the fund itself invested more than 100 million kunas annually or what is said here over 700 million kuna has been spent so far in the development of projects especially local self-government. I do not agree that here, based on these laws and proposals, we need to overcome policy and talk here in one political dictionary, because we all need to be together for the sake of Croatia, we all need to be together to make sure that a truly even distribution of funds is made towards the units of local self-government. And I am sure that by this way joining, therefore not by abolishing as you are here speaking to the Fund by joining the Ministry of Regional Development, it will contribute to the greater development of the continental part, because indeed this ministry is concerned, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as I am sure, that in the coming period and especially in the 2011 budget in local self-government, we will feel it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59910	Thank you. We have three replicas, first of all the distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59911	Thank you very much. Well, you have rightly established, fellow Lucic, and in principle these agencies, the funds are in line with the government's economic recovery programme. So the goal is to rationalise, reduce costs for all those institutions whose business overlaps with individual ministries. But it's a very important fact when a colleague says that these funds, these agencies, etc. have been unplanned. to say that this is exactly what is now being abolished was founded in 2001. It means she founded the 2001 government. And this particular government is now rationalizing, trying to rationalize and cost and cut costs and all those jobs that overlap with us. So it's funny to hear that precisely from these lines whose government founded those agencies and funds came criticism that it wasn't thought at that time and formed irrational funds, agencies, etc. And now this government is doing a rational job. And in any case, I think it should be commended, not critical because this is how the citizens who listen to it think that this government founded it and that this government basically abolishes, which is not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59912	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59913	... I agree with my colleague Kunst that exactly what you said was true. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Well, that's exactly what the Government of the Republic of Croatia is, but not just these governments, but those governments that used to be. But already at the next item of the agenda, it will be visible that the Regional Employment Development Fund is also visible that over 200 million kunas were there annually, invested over 2 billion just in economic recovery and employment. The fact is that both in one fund and in another fund, we achieved exactly what we wanted, which is the goal of hiring as many people as possible, to develop the economy at the highest level. True, we're in one spot right now. I am a witness to economic development and in my midst because this situation is at the world level and European level, whatever you want to say here in Parliament, it is not true, because this government is not responsible for the situation in the Republic of Croatia, but is a situation at the world and European level. I felt it on my skin. And I repeat once again, respected MPs, don't treat this situation and just throw the burden on one person or one institution, because these are the scales of the global and economic crisis. And all of you who didn't hire, all of you who didn't work in the development of the economy and who didn't have to pay your own income, have no right to such rhetoric and to disqualify all those who today give personal income and who fight to achieve as much productivity as possible in the production itself and in the economy itself. That's why these funds, by connecting with the Ministry of Regional Development, have very good reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59914	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59915	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lucic, you have tried to say to reduce the word abolishing, although exactly in the text, the assessment of the situation says that it is a matter of abolishing the Regional Development Fund. It's just that later on, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it' The functions taken over by the Ministry of Regional Development, which you think will ensure balance in the allocation of funds, is another matter. Slavonia and Baranja have already felt this evenness well. And as for your town of Pleternica, I am glad that it is progressing and it is visible starting from the roundabouts at the entrance to the Pleternica to the waterfall, etc. However, the other day I was in the town of Pakrac, where there are still very fresh traces of war destruction that were and I can tell you that the citizens of the town of Pakrac think that the political power and influence that most of the funds are currently dragging into Požega-Slavon County towards the town of Pleternica. Unlike the rest of the districts and municipalities in Požega-Slavon County, which I would not talk about by citing Caglin and others. Furthermore, by joining the Regional Fund, I do not trust the Ministry of Regional Development, I personally cannot believe that anything will change especially because, for example, Here's the other day, according to counterpart Susana Bilic-Vardic, at the signing of a water and sewer construction contract in Slavonski Brod, Mr. Pankretic did not favour any such project worth 30 billion euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59916	Thank you very much. Replica reply, distinguished representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59917	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Grubisic, I really spoke discreetly in my presentation. I was also saying that there isn't, you're talking about abolishing, it's your interest to talk about abolishing, it's abolishing. But it attaches, the second word immediately, to the Ministry of Regional Development. So here he asked some question about all the programmes that started in the fund, they continue at the Ministry of Regional Development. So there is no elimination or concern that any unit of local self-government will be left without any project. You say you were in Pakrac, yes, for 4 years from the rule of the SDP from 2000 to 2004, the town of Pakrac can be called by letter and by number by the miserable means it has received for the reconstruction of the ruined city, as well as Lipika. And that's why they're behind, Mr. Grubisic. And me and my colleague, we run things equally, of course, depends on how many people have projects. But if you understand me, all the projects in Pakrac, Lipik and Pleternica have been implemented and is not at the heart of the development of the Plepernica at the expense of Pakrac. And for the rest of the Pakrac, four years for the rule of the SDP, the miserable assets were obtained to restore the same Pakrac from all the casualties he suffered in the war. So let's not talk like that because you're wrong. And it's you from the HDSSB who come from Slavonia as much as I do, and I love Slavonia very much, and I was born there and I'm really struggling in every way to try to realize all of our projects. And don't tell the people here that they don't invest in Slavonia, and I'm the one who's going to talk argumentically about the amounts, about the road construction, about everything that's been done in Slavonia. And don't, and here's the latest information to sign this big in a speech in Brod-Posavina County...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59918	Time! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59919	That tells you not to tell the truth. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59920	Thank you. Your time is up. It is next to the distinguished representative, replica, Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59921	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Dear Representative Lucic says we should not speak in politics in the Croatian Parliament. I must conclude here that neither I nor the citizens of the Republic of Croatia see the Croatian Parliament as a society of haiku poets but as the supreme legislative body chosen by the political will of the voters. Therefore, we cannot run away from this responsibility to speak in the language of politics. When you speak and when you mention the investments that come to Slavonia and Baranja and specifically and in your county, that is the point, Mr. Lucic, which we are trying to warn about the crumbs that are coming. You're talking about millions of kunas, and we're talking about billions of kunas going to other parts of the Republic of Croatia, and they don't end up in Slavonia and Baranja. I don't know if you listened or when I talked about investment projects, these 30 projects. If we divide it into three regions, three statistical regions, then we have a situation that out of 13.8 billion 3.4 for those joint projects of agglomeration and irrigation, and 10.4 billion for concrete projects. In northwestern Croatia of the 10.4 billion...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59922	Thank you! Your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59923	He's leaving 50% and 12% in Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59924	Thank you! Your Honor...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59925	That's not fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59926	Thank you very much. The answer is not to the replica, the esteemed representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59927	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Buric, I was just saying that your rhetoric that you spoke today is not a way to fight for Slavonia. We are seen here by all the people in Croatia and this way as you fought it is really not correct and that is why I said, you do not love Slavonia more than I do and you certainly do not have more projects than I have done as mayor and representative and party president. So please don't talk about it because all I'm gonna tell you is that billions of kunas were just heading towards Osijek. I'm asking you and do you know how much corridor 5c costs, how many blocks of Osijek cost, how much state roads cost that were made? And that you didn't implement your projects because you didn't bring foreign investors, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia will not bring investors to you but yourselves. So don't speak, I agree, once again, we're fighting for Slavonia, we need far more resources, but don't say that Slavonia has been neglected because this government really takes care enough of the even spending of money, and I am the best apostrophysing you through my county, and here are colleagues from other counties. And don't talk about Osijek because you've gotten the most funding from us, and I've only told you a few projects, and when we're alone, then I'll give you other projects maybe you don't know about. And don't act politically here, act economically here to help our economy right now, and this is how you distance Osijek from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59928	Thank you. It's our guest, Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59929	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Today, there is a debate here on the abolition of one institution as one of the measures of the Economic Recovery Programme or the implementation of rationalisation in the functioning of the state administration. The fact is that this fund should have been provided to those parts of Croatia that are lagging behind or that are less developed certain funds that they will be used to develop certain infrastructure projects than needed. But it is also a fact that here there were also parts of Croatia that, above all, I think of Slavonia, which make up about 20% of the population of the same amount of territory of the Republic of Croatia, which are the poorest part of Croatia as a whole, and which do not participate in the funds of these programmes in line with the share in the population and space, and also this criterion, the fact that these are highly poorly developed areas should be the argument that would increase that share in these funds. And as the municipal budgets in Slavonia look, compared to some other parts of Croatia, say the coast. The municipalities of some 3,000 people have a budget of 5 to 10 million in Slavonia. In the coast, this amount ranges from 20 to 30 million kuna. It is a huge difference and that is what one part of Croatia is doing at this time extremely socially endangered. But when this is looked at in more detail, it actually comes to the conclusion that the situation is particularly bad in the Slavonian villages, and the Slavonian villages have one specific, special economic structure that causes this poor situation. The question is how in Slavonia to change that economic structure and to ensure increased employment through it. When it comes to unemployment, it is about 50% unemployment in Slavonian villages. There are no other cities in Slavonian cities, in other parts of Croatia. But it's very high in the villages. This is the consequence of the economic structure that needs to be changed. So when it comes to the work of this fund so far, then I point out the criticism that he has not taken sufficient account of this particular segment. But the question now is whether by removing the fund and transferring these jobs to the ministry, we're going to get a result. The administrative cost will be about the same. So there are no savings in that sense. Whether the activity itself will be more effective is not seen. Whether to be a smaller number of employees is not scheduled to be fired. So in this sense, there is no big material rationalization. But this is a moment where we can talk about the need for a different action in the fund itself and the recognition of those needs that are real in Croatia, which should be within the scope of the future work of the ministry that needs to balance regional development with these mechanisms. Because it's not going to be the very fact that at this point we're implementing a programme of abolishing different agencies, funds, unification itself brings economic recovery, and it's not going to bring in itself any big savings. But this is exactly the moment to talk about how there is a need in Croatia to launch those economic projects right now to encourage new investment and employment because this can lead to increased economic activity. And these very activities related to administrative changes, unifying agencies will not start economic development in Croatia and this should be clear. At this point, we have 60 laws in the debate, but out of these 60 there are no developmental ones, there are no ones involved in activities that will significantly affect the economic development of the country. These mergers can have positive effects, but they don't have to. Thus, by doing so alone, it will not significantly change economic activity in Croatia and I warn and consider it necessary at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59930	Thank you. We also have one replica, the esteemed representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59931	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Serbs, in your debate, most of what you said I support. When you talk about units of local administration and self-government in our county and when you emphasized that some units have 5 to 10 million kuna budget I agree with you that they cannot even finance themselves or survive in such a form. And what is waiting for us here in the Croatian Parliament we are facing a great challenge, which is that we will have to have this large network of municipalities, so now I am talking about our area of Osijek-Baranja County and in general about the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia and thus reduce it because the municipalities should not be alone for the purpose of paying only wages, but precisely what you say. We ourselves face a great challenge, we ourselves are partly and guilty that in some units of local administration and self-government we have not taken advantage of the opportunity to identify people who will know how to run projects, recognize what needs to be done in their village and municipality. What awaits us in front of our county and before entering the European Union and that our agriculture and the very mentality of our Slavonian peasants are ahead of a major change, and I hope that all of us, regardless of the political party and the option, will be able to take advantage of the opportunity and time in which we are presently. It was sad for me, I read in Slavonia's Voice the other day that in Osijek, incentives were offered for entrepreneurs without anyone answering the program. You know, there's a lot of mistakes sometimes in people who get a chance to lead, do something, and they don't know how to do it themselves. So the time is ahead of us when we seek excellence, when we seek honesty and righteousness, first of all we need to know how to recognize people who know it will lead to the burden of those who have given them confidence as voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59932	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59933	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. It is certain that the municipalities and this regional territorial structure in Croatia with counties and municipalities are not optimal, that it is seeking a certain change, that there is also the fact that some municipalities have such small budgets. In my previous presentation, I did not talk about the smallest ones with barely a million kuna budgets, and where these means can only cover the municipality's survival in the administrative sense. Thus, all the resources available are spent on the very functioning of the municipality, and they do not have any left to invest anything, any problems being solved. Of course, it makes no sense and that a certain change should be made in that structure that would allow for the rounding of these funds, reducing the share of the costs of implementing the municipal management system itself. So since the election of chiefs, councils, headmasters and regular expenses, some funds remain to invest. But it is a very delicate and sensitive political moment and should actually have a government with great support and courage that can carry out such a demanding one situation. There is another problem, therefore, especially with smaller counties, there is a permanent conflict between the county and city authorities regardless of which political options they come from. So the biggest city in the county and county as an institution almost generally comes into conflict even when it comes to officials from the same political options But that's exactly what the need for that device to change. [[Intruder Capricorn: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59934	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59935	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, honorary secretary of state, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. There are no colleagues of Lesars, but he was tortured here by counting the number of funds, agencies, institutions and from 23 came to 33. But I have to admit that there are a lot, a lot more, twice as many funds, agencies and institutions. This very unmistakable fund-building policy, institutes and agencies began in 2000 and until today, until recently. He told his colleague, Lesar, that it was a hyper production agency. So I'd say it was exaggerating at certain times with the establishment of agencies, funds and institutions. It was exaggerated for many reasons, and the most important reason is that at the time of the conjuncture, there was little thought and thought about the future, and there were times of economic growth, when every idea fell on fertile soil, and then some agencies were set up. In enthusiasm are also made irrational decisions, and only when difficult management conditions occur, when we are pressed by problems, then we start to think about rational decisions. And the real time today, and the time 10 or 6, 7 or 3 years ago isn't the same, and this time is driving us to rational decisions, to decisions that will deny those irrational for previous reasons, and we need to admit that there have been such decisions. That sometimes an agency or a fund or an office was set up just so someone would be the head of an office or head of a fund. But it's been so long. Today, the most difficult times in which Croatia has existed since there is still no room for comfort, but if we want access to this bill, the abolition of the Regional Development Fund Act are unilaterally observed and simplified at the lowest possible level, then at first sight one can really wonder how we can take care of regional development, the equal development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia, while at the same time abolishing the fund that is responsible for developing areas that were under war, developing areas that have infrastructure problems, that border and border areas or areas of special state concern. But it's just at first sight. It is true that this bill repeals the Fund Act, but the activities the Fund has carried out, the activities that the Fund is now carrying out and which are put into effect in the future are not lifted, they are only directed within the Ministry, which is also a natural place for it there, because the competent ministry is naturally competent for the existing still Regional Development Fund. And as far as there is illogicalness, it is in the existing law that the board of directors is responsible for the management of the fund, and in the board of directors, the chairman is acting as finance minister, and we have five board members and we have three board members and we have a board president. So, just to put an end to it, if we were just to simplify that only the board of directors and five board members with the president are already a big deal. But we're also removing three board members and the president's seat. I must stress here that the country in the world is the largest compared to the number of people and the gross domestic product, the country with the highest number of presidents. Well, it's so much so that one president is less, one job called the president less I support such a law, because it's more rational, it'll be more effective, and it's doubtless that the principle of unity of command, which is necessary in governance, will only be fulfilled by abolishing this law because then unity, the principle of unity of command within the ministry, will gain power over its fullness. So far, it has not worked at all, it has not been able to function, because the two ministers were responsible for the functioning of the same body. Although I have to admit here so far, the debate has led exclusively to Slavonia, me, dear Slavonia, but I like every other part of Croatia, but this problem should be discussed at the principle level, for all of Croatia, and not only within the framework of regional development, concentrate on just one, with all the understanding and suffering that Slavonia has been going through, and passing, but we have other areas that have not been mentioned here, which are also affected by war, by special state concerns, and which should be put in an equal context for all. I have one suggestion personal, this is one really rational decision that should have been made before. In order for me to pray if possible, I will, in this context, submit one amendment, to apply this law, because otherwise it is good for the effectiveness and implementation of each law to be applied from 1.1 next year, that there is time to adapt to both acts and all, and if there are no specific reasons and obstacles to that, it will always be applied at 1.1 next year. I also know that an analysis has been made, but in the law there should have been a little more explanations and part of that analysis and include, because this importance of the decision to abolish the Fund Act does not exactly correspond, is not in agreement with the reasoning, and it just needed to be a little clearer, a little more detail, but it is not at all disputed that we need to remove as many agencies as possible and simplify the process and regional development, but also all other activities of the Republic of Croatia. I'm not happy that we're doing this when the problems have already arisen, but it's better now than never. And the most important thing in the economy is to recognize the problem before it comes up, and right now we have to think about the problems that await us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59936	Thank you. And now we have five replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59937	Thank you. Comrade Maric, with most of the words, I would absolutely agree. It's nice to hear these rational grounds on the ruling side. But I'd like to add something, which is a little different from what you said, when you made the difference between these difficult times and the time of the conjuncture of economic flight, prosperity. I'd say that time was a false prosperity. Yes, things seem to be moving, but the crisis was so deep, back in the '90s, or we won't mention the earlier period, so these few years, under quotes, "conjucture," couldn't erase all those previous years of crisis. And that's what I'm saying because in this place 10 years ago, I was saying that we can spend as much as we make, that taking credit must be rational, that credits must be wisely invested in order to get it back. And that systems, and specifically as defence ministers, I said that they must be set up rationally and that they must be sustainable. But then, in these last few years, both unions and governments and employers have all been blowing the same horn. Why? The money was seemingly tossing. And it took this crisis to dissipate all of this, strip the situation in Croatia to instead of one corporate state that we started building up finally the subjects start acting in accordance with their own interests. So this crisis is not for evil either.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59938	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59939	What's more, she's gonna start getting used to us being rational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59940	Thank you very much. Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59941	Thank you very much. Comrade Pancic, so very often you can from the ranks of the ruling party feel a rational solution, it is not just an individual. I wouldn't, although you said that most of you agreed to what I said, I didn't hear anything you disagreed on. But in part you pointed out that it was a false conukture. No, there was a time when really, when there was a conukturous cycle in Croatia. And today is indeed a time of recession, a time of difficult management conditions, and we must be aware of that. And we should always behave in accordance with the weather. Except it's also true that at the time of the conukture, even when the actual surplus of the state budget was not used for the best purposes. And that is why, the time when the stock is not deployed into something that will bring us in the future profit and well-being of Croatia, then we have long-term consequences. And we know there was a time when the banks that made the profits didn't even pay the profit tax. And for such things today we suffer, and for such failures we will still suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59942	Thank you. Replica, MP Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59943	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm going to use this replica to say something about the image and the opportunity of a war of the lost city, not a lot of mention here today. When we talk about the regional development of the town of Pakrac from which I come, a city that today makes up one prominence of the total population of the Republic of Croatia. The city that suffered more than 2 billion direct damage in the Homeland War. Who lost 4,000 jobs during the Homeland War. Not to mention the number of people killed and wounded in the area of the town of Pakrac and the town of Pakrac and all of Croatia. That should be considered. My colleague Grubisic mentioned the town of Pakrac, so here I will use Mr. Maric to replicate it for you, if someone is advocating even development, then that's exactly what we in these areas advocate even development. But I can't expect you to invest in the town of Pakrac for 19 years, that in Pleternica, in Gornja Kneginac, in Mali Lošinj, in Omis you don't invest anything. Come to Pakrac, I invite you to see how much has been invested in these 19 years. I have a man here who was at the beginning of the Homeland War in Pakrac and who was in Pakrac a few months ago to tell you that Pakrac looked before, during the Homeland War, what it looks like today and how much the Government of the Republic of Croatia has invested funds specifically in the town of Pakrac. Of course, we still need help. We expect after all these investments both towards Slavonia and the northwestern region of Croatia, both according to Dalmatia and Primorje to continue investment in the war-related areas. And if someone advocates even regional development, then it is us in the field of special state concern by the war of the affected areas that is the greatest advocates of such policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59944	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59945	Thank you very much. It is really nice to hear a fellow Huška when a man publicly says how much he loves his end, but how much he loves all of Croatia and that you have risen above the self-interest of your end, your Pakrac. And it is no doubt what horror Pakrac went through in the war, but you also do not neglect and miss mentioning the problem of both the Drain area and the Lošinj area and the Dalmatian mountain and all other areas that need to be evenly developed. And that's nice to meet you. You also said that because of the award rules Pakrac couldn't get the funds because of that regulation that below 65%... can't use those funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, that's exactly why we have to change things. And how come no one from the administration, and three are members of the administration, and no one from the fund has ever mentioned that problem? Well, that's exactly why we need to cancel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59946	Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59947	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would refer to part of the debate, the distinguished colleague Maric, who linked it, so the abolition of the law on follow-up, referred to a word that speaks rationality. It is clear and true and it has been observed that here since 2000, the number of different funds, agencies, etc. is growing further. And it's clear that when it comes to the competent ministries, it comes to dualism and that it's seen except for the increased number itself that it actually slows down activity. It's, once again, very important to notice. But maybe I'd take this opportunity to, and according to that subject, a little bit of just a tiny extension and I say when we talk about any fund then, first of all, in the language of the common man it is -- let's go to the fund there has some money for something. So we're speaking in a dictionary of an ordinary man, and basically that's what it is. What do I want to do here? So both competent ministries and agencies and funds, so they have their own tasks, roles, and very often it's wrong to go looking for money. No, from the position of the mayor, from the position of entrepreneurs, it's about the presentation of the programme. The presentation of the development programme is based on the so far done from that level. From the level of adoption of spatial plans, GUPs, from the idea solutions of major projects or building permits for certain projects, because these are the basic settings where on such quality programs, but it is based on project... documentation you can report to that part of the competition. Why do I say that, and when there is no money on the units of local self-government, municipalities or cities, there is always money to be found for designing, for finding new solutions in documents to wait for the right moment, so we have prepared the programs just implemented on titles in which we can get money as such. So in this context, the rationalization of the funds needs to be further said because it's actually a gene and a base, if you don't have such programs, all the funds and ministries can't directly regulate the direction of development on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59948	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59949	Comrade Turk, you mention the rationalization that I've focused most of my discussions on, but no wonder you mention it because I was in your town on Saturday, and that's the only way the city can look if it's managed rationally. And this is proof that rational decision-making and rational behavior can in a very short time do good for your city. But how to be rational if we have a hundred different agencies, funds or institutions. That's impossible. So we have a case that we've put three agencies together into one, four even agencies in one, and everything works better than when they were 3 or 4 and there's a skill that a kind of joint business puts together in one institution, how to connect different activities, separate them from those related and put them into one. IF we didn't have so many presidents, we wouldn't have so many official cars, we wouldn't have so many official cards, we wouldn't have so many official drivers and we'd spend everything at the expense of the overall situation in the Croatian economy, and then at the standard of all of us in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59950	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boro GRubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59951	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am always pleased when I hear and how analytically you present the problem that is ahead of us, so it is such a pleasure to hear that there are not 30 but a double number or exactly 68 funds, institutions, agencies and a number of other institutions that actually in a certain dualism mentioned by a colleague who had a replica before me, actually go to the core of jurisdiction and to the core of governance. When you talked about this, you were saved by reducing or abolishing the post of president of one fund and several members of the administration. Then I ask you, if you are already as analytical as the agency, the office, the service of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and how busy the civil servants, the employees of that service are back 7 years, and we are talking about saving. So it's the same government, same political option, and I believe and I think it was actually taking care of similar personnel in such agencies, institutions, services, committees, and I don't know what they've been called, seducing them for the past seven years. And when you were talking about Slavonia, you mentioned it, I have to answer it in a replica, then it's clear to everyone who passes Novska that the difference between Slavonia and some parts of the Republic of Croatia, in development, in transport, in infrastructure, in everything regarding the life of a man in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59952	Thank you. I ask the honourable MPs and MPs to enter the hall so that we can vote on a proposal to supplement the agenda. Replica reply, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59953	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, I would not share a period that showed a tendency to individual governments, I said that the tendency of the irrational establishment of agencies, funds and institutions took place after 99 to back a year. But this government has come under economic recovery measures and a measure of public administration reform. And this is one of the public administration reform measures that will reduce the number of these agencies, funds and institutions and will not affect the effectiveness of these same funds, or activities they have carried out. On the contrary, the effectiveness and effectiveness of all these activities will be increased. And as for Slavonia, I absolutely agree, it's just enough to pass by and see what our situation is there and that we need to help our Slavonia. But I just wanted to say that we should look at all of Croatia, because there are areas that are even in the same or even worse state than Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59954	Mr. Representative Branko Box. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59955	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You've been talking about rationalization all along. We who come from local self-government units, just these funds, the agencies were addresses we had to report to to get by projects a certain amount of money, but it doesn't matter when you come looking for money whether you're going to knock on 100 doors or I don't know 15 or 20 doors, that's one thing. And secondly, what a colleague Huška said, it is definitely true and true, so we who come from the field of special care are the first and although we advocate the even development of the Republic of Croatia, and this is one of the measures definitely when we have to make such a decision. It is also visible from the debate of colleagues as many as were in local self-government and have struggled to bring funds into their environments from which they come, all else is politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59956	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59957	Thank you very much. Well, it's always important for a colleague of the Box to make a quick decision, but to make it rational, and right now, the amendment of this law goes towards that goal, to make decisions faster, but to be more efficient and rational. Just imagine if you analyze how many times the board of directors met and how they met and what decision everything had to meet for, then you'll see how slow they were, how inconclusive they were, because for five board members to meet and meet once or twice a year, and the administration can't make a single decision without them, then I know how much this affects the ineffectiveness of the administration itself. And here, within his Ministry of Hierarchy, jurisdiction is more flow and decisions will be made faster and thus more effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59958	Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59959	I am surprised by my colleague Maric that after some good premise you come to a completely wrong conclusion. First of all, it's strange not to tell the difference between agencies, institutions and funds. The funds are financial institutions, it's quite something other than agencies or seductions. Why is it something else, and why can't these jobs be done by the ministry? Because they're in funds and that's why these two funds we're talking about today were created. Funds gather funds not only from the state budget, but from local, regional, private sources. That was the essence of it. When you say that agencies, institutions and funds have been set up to get jobs, that it may be related to the period of the last seven years. Two people were employed in this fund when it was founded, a colleague. So, the true meaning of this fund has not been recognized by the government in the last seven years, has not been allocated to it and has led it to the fact that we are discussing the abolition today instead of talking about why the executive power was not able, why it failed to use one such institution that all countries have, without saying how tempting the need for such a single fund is in Croatia. There is no ministry that can replace the function of this fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59960	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59961	My fellow Vidic, the Prime Minister is not mine, the premise is the facts, and the conclusions are mine, and how right they are, that will be the judgement of those who listen. We've been listening here the whole time how effective the fund was, how effective it was, and now you're saying it wasn't. I don't get it. That he didn't use it, that he was just in the employment business, that he didn't take advantage of the function. The fund was effective, the fund has done its job but will be even more effective and will not stop acting, because it will operate within the Ministry, not with special bodies, special administration and special management board, because these are two parallel lines of command. He has a competent ministry above him and has a finance minister headed by the board of directors and administration above him. These are two parallel lines of command. In such a relationship, decisions cannot be made effectively and efficiently. This will only help to make the funding activity even more effective, and it won't stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59962	Thank you very much. Now, I'd like to interrupt the debate on this agenda point for a moment. We are continuing to discuss the final draft law on the termination of the Law on the Regional Development Fund of the Republic of Croatia. In an individual debate, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59964	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is today the agenda of the draft law on the termination of the Act on the Regional Development Fund. In fact, it is written in the very text of this bill on the abolition of the Fund with the date of entry into force of this law. That's why it's an opportunity to discuss two topics today. Exactly what is here today with most MPs has therefore been in debates, which is the number of agencies, institutions, funds, etc. So for example, for regional development, we have a ministry, then we have a Regional Development Agency and we have a Regional Development Fund. So it really is a dualism or trialism that actually loses the jurisdiction or right of competence of some of these funds, and in fact it is not known who manages, and who decides or actually whose competences are defined in the case of projects of local or regional self-government, whether economic projects in the Republic of Croatia. Of course the fund and the agency or the office aren't the same. It is also clear if the fund, therefore, fits in as someone tells the Ministry of Regional Development here, that it is also the centralisation of money at its disposal but also the centralisation of the powers that the Ministry of Regional Development then has. And in this centralisation and in such a decision, it must be pointed out when it comes to regional development that Slavonia has gone very badly, so what anyone here thought of is that we have somehow imposed a topic or above all Slavonia and Baranja, its unequal development in relation to the rest of Croatia, so let me also say inequality. It's someone on this, so the ruling side of HDZ, I don't know if anyone else is declaring politics and rhetoric that we're actually moving away from the central government, we're imposing a harsh rhetoric which then we're not a petrified lamb that can't get the results that we're supposed to get. And you see, HDSSB has 45,000 members, and Slavonia has 900,000 residents in five counties. Well, we don't have to be you, so which one? But what about the other 845000 inhabitants and the 4 counties in which HDZ is in power, and yet it is not really worth verticalizing the authorities with which so much pride and so much of the local leaders stand out above all that there will be a vertical of HDZ authorities... Mr. Vice President, give these of you to learn not to tell your mind or at least culture, because I can't speak without a microphone. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] So, either I hold the microphone. So, it's about as much as you try to declare our discussions with politics or ours, or some kind of harsh rhetoric that we're moving away from, that's not why we're showing, so what we're talking about is that Slavonia is still on the tail and investment and capital investment and everything else that this country can, and it doesn't actually make the development of the Republic of Croatia even. That is also what the World Bank reports speak of, therefore, the observations of the Croatian Bishop's Conference, all of them. But it turns out that we are here in this highest place to tell the legislative and representative body of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament we should not speak, because here we are harsh rhetoric and because we are politicians. Well, you shouldn't be a politician, you just have to come to Slavonia, you just need to see Slavonia. And I'm not going to talk about the other ends that I love as much. If someone thinks it's not like that, they're wrong. So, the rest of the Republic of Croatia for which we are much more interested gentlemen from HDZ than you and we have given much more as Slavonia and Baranja and people from Slavonia and Baranja. Therefore, to stick a crumb or a rag to Slavonia and Baranja here and there, that is correct. So someone's talking about the Ministry of Tourism, I think Mrs Majdenic has invested a lot of money. Yeah, in continental tourism, yeah. But as much as she invested, as much as it was invested from before was 1%, now it's 50% higher, now it's 1 and a half percent from the tourism ministry. Look how hot it is when a glass is estimated to be half empty or half full. Even 50% more funds. It was 1%, now it's 1 and a half percent. And when we talk about what Mrs. Susana Bilić Vardić was saying about sewers and plumbing in Slavonia and Baranja. So in Slavonia and Baranja today 40% of the population doesn't exactly have water, no drinking water or quality water, and I'm not talking about the drain system, or how we can say it by sewering, which there aren't many more residents. So in the 21st century, should we talk about it and then say it's invested. She invested Mrs Vardić, but I did not want to debate with you, of those 30m euros, 15m European Union, so, and the town of Brod 2m euros, the town of Brod jell, and the rest are state funds. Therefore, the abolition of the Regional Development Fund is considered, in fact, by centralisation of funds and the possibility of political action and the power of individuals to distribute, so the distribution of funds... in this, Slavonia and Baranja have gone badly and therefore we have no faith that in the future they will be better off with your ministries and your government. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59965	Thank you. Two corrections. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59966	Thank you very much. My colleague, I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Grubisic, who was wrongly correcting me, because I also said about this contract IPA project in Slavonski Brod, but that yours, that you have very many wrong allegations from my colleague Grubisic, will prove to you the following information. When you talked about the water supply in Slavonia, you forgot the eastern and regional water pipeline of Sikirevci, 398 million kunas invested by the state in the area of Brod-Posavina County, which is part of Slavonia and is part of our beautiful. And my colleague Grubisic, if possible one remark, this item of the agenda is the termination, the draft law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, and not on your party, which is regional, but I hope it won't be long.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59967	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59968	Mr. Vice President, I, Article 209, didn't mention Sikirevci. Therefore, it is true that in the Sikirevci are the largest underground tanks, water reserves in the Republic of Croatia, but it is also true that the Sikirevs have no water supply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59969	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Prosecution has denied one of your claims. And he doesn't have to talk about the Sikirevs. And Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59970	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I will correct the inaccuracy of colleagues who have claimed that the important Slavonia is lagging behind other regions in the Republic of Croatia. I will only come from the example of one Slavonian county, which is half Slavonian, half sub-level, Virovitica-Podravska County, which ends water supply and begins with water draining and water protection, and according to the agreement of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 228 million kuna, a project signed together with the Ministry of Regional Development, Water Economy and Forestry, and certainly every municipality, one after the other ends complete, in... water supply, starts with the draining, and by the end of the term, there will certainly be 50% draining water and purifiers made throughout the county. [[You don't understand the speaker.]] So your interpretation that Slavonia has been neglected in the projects certainly doesn't stand, and we can explain it in every way.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59971	Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59972	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. So today we have a decision to repeal the Law on the Regional Development Fund, because it implements the economic recovery measures of the Republic of Croatia. I see we've talked about a lot of things, but we haven't talked about the law we're breaking. So let me read what the fund is doing today, because we don't know when it's going to be abolished, and it will be abolished when the law is published in the People's Newspaper. Therefore, the activities of the Fund are particularly related to the promotion of the development of the areas affected by the war, areas which are poorly populated, areas of special state concern, the island, mountain and mountain areas, border and cross-border, border areas, areas with structural problems, areas that generate a gross domestic product below 60% of the average gross domestic area, income, and other areas in line with the programme. So in order to ensure the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia, we are removing a fund that has a fundamental activity to encourage development in areas where there has been or is no development, and we are doing so in a way that we will convince the citizens of Croatia that this will increase efficiency because people who have been placed in a special fund so far, where they had special funds, and where they have only done so, we will move them and turn them into state officials and tenants within a large ministry and now they will probably do it more efficiently and transparently there than they did in the fund. If this fund was not good, then we should get an analysis and say this fund did not achieve its business goals, and we can say it freely, because there was an increase in the difference between developed and undeveloped parts of the Republic of Croatia, because where the greater national income of the fund was even higher, and where it was small, it was even more lagging with those where it was large. There was a further depopulation of exactly those areas that the fund should have cared about except for the island. It did not occur that the areas where the average of 60% of the average gross domestic product had been raised above 65% but even more decreased compared to what was at the time the fund was established. But we say look, you see none of what the fund was founded for, we didn't, and now we're going to move all these people to the Ministry of Regional Development and now they're going to realize the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia. Doesn't that sound absurd to you? It doesn't seem to me that we're going to increase efficiency, it doesn't seem to me that we're going to increase the transparency of the investment of these funds because let's just as much as we knew where the money from this fund was going. Unfortunately, where the money goes from the Ministry of Regional Development you don't know. There are no criteria, no competitions, no evaluations, no reports of where the money went. And even where the contracts are signed, for example for EIB 2 that implements that ministry, after the minister has signed a contract with a local self-government unit in seven days, comes a memo and says please do not call a tender this year because the ministry has no funds, call it in another year, because Croatia has no funds to follow the domestic component from EIB 2 for example. We had a special fund here, we had special funds, we had funds coming in, among other things, from the state budget. But we had funds coming from some other sources that provided such a quantum means to encourage development, I repeat, in areas of Croatia that have not been developed. This development has not been encouraged, and I cannot be convinced in any way that drowning these people in the Ministry of Regional Development will encourage this development. On the other hand, the Government adopted a regulation on 24 December 2008 establishing the Agency for Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia. In the agency, he moved to work part of the people who worked at the Ministry of Regional Development until then on EU project issues. So a year ago, we singled out the people who worked at the Ministry of Regional Development into a special agency, there was a fund at the time, and we didn't know that this fund didn't meet what it needed. What was the problem, you didn't even know it was a crisis a year ago. A year ago there was prosperity, as counterpart Maric said, agencies were set up when we were well. Therefore, a year ago there was prosperity, so we set up the Regional Development Agency and left the Regional Development Fund to function. Well, then after that comes the sobering. We're no longer drunk rich people who can start an agency when someone needs to be robbed, so today we're shutting down the fund. But we do nothing because we transfer all people to the Ministry of Regional Development and establish a new administration at the Ministry of Regional Development and bring a new man to the Ministry of Regional Development who today does not work at the Ministry of Regional Development to run that administration. Then what is this savings in the resources of the state budget, and what is that efficiency? If, and former director, the chairman of this fund's management is rewarded by going to another regulatory agency for a member of the board. My colleague Maric also said here, they had three board members who were this fund, so why didn't they tell us that the criteria were bad? I would remind you that we discussed here in the Croatian Parliament both on the budget and on budget rebalances and on the report on the work of this fund and just some of us warned that there were problems in the criteria. But you wouldn't listen to us. He never wants to listen to anyone from the opposition because at 7, 8 years we didn't have a good thought, not a good idea, not a good proposal that the government could adopt. Because if we had listened perhaps we could, based on these proposals from the opposition, correct the criteria based on which funds were allocated from the Regional Development Fund to make them more effective. What we're doing today is simply turning from hollow to empty, and we're turning a little bit of it or almost nothing because we've come into a situation that we have nothing. What has not been developed remains undeveloped, where there has been no development is neither further encouraged. Nor will it be encouraged to drown a certain number of people and give them enormous security because today, before elections, this seems to be an increase in social security because we turn people who work today into a Regional Development Fund into civil servants and tenants. And I'm afraid that besides that goal, which is to ensure that these people are granted the status of civil servants and tenants there is absolutely no other purpose than to remove the Regional Development Fund, nor will this achieve savings, but even more so, I think that this style exercise will increase the funding from the state budget for human resources, and reduce investment in regional development and foster regional development in the areas for which this fund should be cared.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59973	Thank you. 2 corrections, 2 replicas. First correction, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59974	Mr. Vice President, I will correct at least 2 incorrect allegations even though this first one has already corrected himself and denied himself since he said, he claimed, that his colleague Mršić would shut down the fund and that he would no longer exist. He eventually denied himself by saying he would work through the Ministry of Regional Development, that he would continue to work and that officials and tenants would become employees there. Namely, it's clear that... arguing that the fund would not exist you wanted to let know that there would be no more projects, support for these projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, it will continue. And the second is a rational waste of funds. When we talk about the rational spending of funds, surely there are criteria to justify all the resources that have been given and spent. It's not like you. When you were building a purifier, you spent a million euros on coordinating the whole project. That's what you paid off Petros Engineering.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59975	Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59976	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the quote of my colleague Mršić, who said the funds of the Regional Development Fund did not encourage development. I disagree with my colleague and that is not true because these 700, 800 million invested in local self-government units, in building different municipal infrastructures, rebuilding kindergartens, building schools are certain that local self-government units are in a certain way stimulated by development. Maybe there wasn't enough funds for you in the big cities, but the kid certainly means a lot. You say you argued, that the criteria are bad. Yes, you may have debated it in a sense, although we don't remember, in the sense that you came up with more funds. You never mentioned the war of the lost areas in the Republic of Croatia, nor the areas of special state concern.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59977	Replica Mr. Agent Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59978	Dear fellow Mršić, I have been busy with the reformation, rationalisation, savings, etc. for several days in the Parliament, and this entire session is called the Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and such measures as this Fund, and we have often mentioned the reorganisation, rationalisation, savings, etc., and that we have not received any relevant indicator of any such reorganisation procedure in terms of how much kuna or lipa is saved. And most precisely, what you said was that it all resembles spilling from hollow to empty, so I would even say that the government is acting on these suggestions as a hollowing agency and simply missing more of what can be spilled. So we're going to see a whole series of bill proposals where there's also going to be rationalization, savings, etc., it turns out that everything that's been done so far has been irrational and it's also formed by government regulations, and it's simply asking what this was. Was it temporary to take care of extras or some other party people who came in the small door and now, as you said, become state officials or this is something else. After all, we won't save anything because the ministries will do what they do so far and have some more people and simply from the hollow to empty there is nothing left of Mršić's colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59979	And Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Did you have an answer? Then go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59980	Don't pay attention to our actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59981	I regret very much and will never ignore you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59982	My colleague, I have no wonders about the fact that we haven't received an analysis, or that we don't know what this is about, because the simply ruling majority recently forgot everything that's happened yesterday or what's happened in the last seven years, they don't know anything about what's been going on for the last seven years, but they remember perfectly what happened in 2000 to 2003, so we accidentally requested an analysis of the Fund's work in 2002 and 2003, and I'm sure your colleagues could tell you about every day what someone was doing in that fund. In 2004, to date, no one has any idea what was there, and so don't be surprised by it, it's just like that, there's collective amnesia, the ruling majority, they don't know anything about what they were doing, they don't know who was making any decisions, none of them took part in it, but they know perfectly what someone else was doing. They don't even know what's in Carlovec...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59983	Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59984	My colleague Mršić, since you mentioned several times in your discussion, I feel the need to refer to your exposure. You're a little out of line in these conclusions of yours. Let's say I tell you that in my opinion the Fund worked equally from 2000 to 2003 and from 2003 to today. IF there were no significant differences, but I don't agree that this spilling from hollow to empty, then they'd admit that the Fund didn't do its job at all and that with this abolishing of the law we'd do worse and it's not exactly either. It is true that the fund has worked, that it has carried out its task and that it will be even more effective when it operates within the competent ministry, not that the management is waiting for the board to meet for months and approve the administration's proposals. I said before, just that one president less that would be good because we are the country with the most president in the world given the number of residents and the gross domestic product. I apologize that is not true, we are second, the first is Bosnia and Herzegovina, I got from a fellow professor that Bosnia and Herzegovina has even more presidents than the population we are second, but I think with this approach, we will speed up the decision-making process and that is very important for each area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59985	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59986	My colleague Maric, I cannot agree with you that the aim of the Fund's operation is fulfilled, and I also do not want to deny that the Fund worked, but unfortunately according to the development index, there was an even greater lack of proportion that was in the trust and what was not. What wasn't in the trust's jurisdiction because it was more than 65%, etc., was developing much faster than what was in this Fund's jurisdiction. The Fund has therefore worked, but the objectives of the Fund have not been achieved in any way. And secondly, I'd like to believe your words that efficiency in the ministry's decision-making is faster than it was in the Fund. But my experience, I have to convince you that it doesn't seem like it's even more likely when we have something that's allocated as special means of decision-making, as special criteria like the fund, that it's more efficient and transparent. More importantly, it's not more transparent in the ministry's budget, but we know exactly how much the resources for certain activities are that it's much better than when it's drowned in some ministry and you'll see that it's going to be the same with this Fund. Unfortunately, we have absolutely no knowledge of what the ministries are doing, because you have no transparent clear criteria on how you can get the funds, who received the funds, how they were realised and, in particular, the evaluation of the projects for which the funds were obtained. When the funds are in a fund, there is still a part of that transparency.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59987	Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59988	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to thank all the representatives of the ruling majority who took the word after my presentation and responded in the way they reacted. A dozen reactions that seemed rather nervous to me were just a sign that today I was saying what I was supposed to say, because otherwise I would have been, if you hadn't let God commend me, or kept me very concerned, so I'm pleased. If I'd said what I was supposed to say today, because otherwise I would have been if you hadn't let me be commended or silenced by God, I'm so pleased. But I'd like to get back to the agenda for a while. We are talking about the repeal of the Law on the Regional Development Fund of the Republic of Croatia whose primary task was to finance initiatives that promote the balanced development of the Republic of Croatia. From the perspective of Slavonia and Baranja, and we are here first and foremost representatives of Slavonia and Baranja, although I will talk about it a little later as a regional party, from the perspective of 5 Slavonsko-Baranja County, the abolition of the Regional Development Fund is not a good decision. I'll back that up with a few more indicators. I mentioned in the opening part when I spoke on behalf of the representative club the fact that by the end of 2008, the fund invested 730 million kuna. Of these 730 million kunas 189,7 or almost 190 million kuna, it went to 5 Slavonian-Baranja County. That's 26.6%. It is the only institution in the Republic of Croatia that has singled out funds and investments in accordance with the number of inhabitants and according to the area that Slavonia and Baranja in the Republic of Croatia are taking. We talked about it. It's 20%. It is not a questionable fact and no one has tried to dispute it here, that Slavonia and Branja are today the poorest and most lagging part of the Republic of Croatia. To arrive and catch up with other parts of the Republic of Croatia, it is not enough to invest only 20%, but also much more to get close and reach those who are now developed. The reasons for underdevelopment, I'm not going to elaborate here, because I've been saying it before, and you've been saying it yourself, and war events and all, and so forth, but the war has long passed. We had time to invest and valorize in an appropriate way what Slavonia and Branja gave to create an independent Croatian state. What it looks like when it's not decided by the Regional Development Fund, but when it's decided by the ministries within the government, then the best example is these 30 projects I've been telling you about. I'll also remind parliamentarians from other counties, don't forget or you didn't care, so you didn't even analyze it. I said that in the previous 4 years when it was decided at the level of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the state budget for all 5 Slavonian counties was singled out only 4.5%, it ranged from three and something to six and something. The last example of these 30 investment projects, it just proves it. The division of the Republic of Croatia into three statistical regions, in the Northwest, the Adriatic and the Mountain regions should be analysed in order to really see what this relationship is in this case to Pannonian Croatia. It is Slavonia and Baranja + three counties of Sisak-moslavina, Karlovac and Bjelovar-Bilogor County. Of the total funds foreseen in these 30 projects for investments that need to be recovered from Croatia and which are of interest to the Republic of Croatia 52% of the funds are intended for the North-West Croatia region. We're not jealous of it, but 37% of the population lives in that statistical region, and 52% of the funding is provided for investments in the region. The Adriatic region, which makes up 32% of the population, we are talking about people, about their fates, the Adriatic region is represented by 36% of the funds in these investment projects. This corresponds to the area and population. But the only region below its average is the Pannonian region. For it, only 12.02% of the funds are provided, accounting for 30% of the population of the Republic of Croatia. And that's what we're talking about when we talk about the position of the ministry that nominated the projects when it was brought to the government on September 23rd, I think it was this year, these investment projects, none of the relevant ministries remembered Slavonia except the said Danube-Sava channel. I'll even tell you that's especially what bothers us, one energy project, I think it's number four, the Molve Hydropower Plant, I think it is. It's written literally the following in your explanation. The project is going because it is a kind of project of state interest, it goes to Koprivnica-Krysjevac County, thank God it goes, but it explains this: "The 1988 agreement plans the realization of 4 water stairs, Đurđevac, Bac, Donji Miholjac and Osijek. The Republic of Hungary has given up on a joint project and activities on the project of the multi-purpose multi-technical system Osijek...", it says here "... have ceased during the Homeland War". Well, at least this isn't written. Either it's a shameless lie or within the government, and even within certain ministries, he doesn't know what he's doing on the right. On 14 April in Osijek-Baranja County, representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development, representatives of HEP, Croatian Waters, HAC and Osijek-Baranja County reached an agreement on the financing of the audit of the cost-effectiveness study for this energy project, for the water step of Osijek, and determined that the ministry would participate with 37.5% of the funds, Croatia's water with 37.5. etc., and that activities related to the development of this project had ceased during the Homeland War. And not to mention that in July 31st, the Ministry of Regional Development took part in the payment together with HEP, HAC, Croatian Waters and Osijek-Baranja County in the payment of a cost-effectiveness study worth nearly 5 million kunas it has invested, and now it says not only that it is not of interest, so that 5 million kunas that ministry has thrown away because if it does not have the strength and if it says that it is not of interest to the Republic of Croatia it should be said so, but not in an explanation to state something that does not correspond to the fact. And that's what we talk about when we talk about Slavonia and Baranja. I'm not going into individual debates with individual MPs because I'm satisfied with what they've shown... but I must say that when representatives from the poorest county in Croatia, from Brod-Posavina County, say they are satisfied with what they get from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, then it is worrying about people living in that county. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59989	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59990	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague, so it doesn't turn out that the two of us are just replicating today, I'm warning you one more time. It's not exactly what you're saying. Turns out you're the only ones who care about Slavonia, and all of us other agents who are here don't worry about it. Indeed, it is not good for you to replicate, speak, to get to know the public, and to introduce yourself as the savior of Slavonia. You're not the one and only two days ago you came to this House and I'd like to ask what your projects are that you started. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59991	And final word, five minutes of debate on behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59992	Here's Mr. Vice President, then we'll end up this way. I must tell Mr. Lucic that I am proud to say what you should say, but because of party discipline, you must remain silent. But let's let it go now, don't count me since I got here to the constituencies. Perhaps it would have been better if you had been shorter in those assembly benches, it would have been likely to be of greater benefit to Slavonia and Baranja. But it is, I'll finish with these projects. We've all heard ourselves here today about the fact that the primary desire to abolish this fund is rationalization, that this is what will lead to a faster flow of decision-making, etc. I am warning again, when it comes to the interest of five Slavonian-Baranja Countys that we are a regional party, but also a national party and in this Croatian Assembly we will act, unfortunately politically struggling, politically fighting for the interests of people living in Slavonia and Baranja. That's our primary goal, that's our mission. The second goal is to maintain the values and dignity of the Homeland War and the constitutional foundations of the Republic of Croatia, but I will talk about it when it comes. I would conclude, when it comes to rationality, the guilt that today's most underdeveloped counties are those located in Slavonia and Baranja is primarily the central state government because it has not invested enough funds. No one can escape from that, and as much as they ask for justification, there is no defense of what is indefensible. The blame is equally borne by those who led the party in power from the former prime minister and through the current prime minister, but also by all MPs who when the projects come to this House, when the state budget is made, when decisions are made then under the obligation of the party's discipline, blaspheme all amendments coming from Slavon-Baranja County to finance the projects. Individual projects financed and talked about and when it comes to Pakrac, when it comes topleternica, are projects that are welcome. Every kuna that comes from the state budget is welcome because it does not belong to either the HDZ or the SDP or any political party, it belongs to people who fill this budget, and these are all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Every kuna that's come is welcome. But the blame for that is also on those of these constituencies who quietly raise their hands for refusing such amendments. And then finally, when we talk about rationality, as regards the HDZ, the most rational decision is also for Slavonia and Baranja's interests, but the entire Republic of Croatia is also not the abolition of the Regional Development Fund, but leaving the ruling coalition with the HDZ. Not to say, as far as we're concerned, the time is also for the fulfillment of the prophetic words of today's prime minister "where to Ivo here and me", as far as we're concerned, you can go all the way through the Danube-Sava channel all the way to the Black Sea, you don't have to go back. Thank you. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59993	This is every comment on my part too much, but corrections. Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59994	Thank you very much. Here I can't really shut up this exhibit and correct the incorrect allegations, but only one, that a fellow representative ceases to accuse the other MPs from Slavonia. And sir, take care of your county, leave my county. I'll fight for her. I know how. We're doing projects. The projects have been realised or will be realised, and you, sir, do not present yourself as the savior of Slavonia. I don't know when you came to Slavonia, I don't know where you were born, and I was born in Slavonia and I am truly fighting with my colleagues. So don't be a savior when you can't do it, and you can't say it in a word, and you can't prove it with such rhetoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59995	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59996	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59997	This is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure by a representative of Lucic, but a violation of the Rules of Procedure by you, so I warn you about it. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovinović, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59998	Well, here, I have to correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Buric, who declares that here, it's all central government and all that. For the development of cities and counties, mayors and mayors who can arrange a lot of jobs and who can apply for a number of projects in funds, not like this. With this kind of shouting, behavior, arrogance, you can only drive investors away, and then ask yourself if this is the best way to continue your political work.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u59999	Final review, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Ivana Maletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60000	Honorable Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. What I would really like to emphasise and answer to some of the questions that have arisen, however, from the debate, are therefore related to the very measure of the economic recovery programme and the moment at which it was adopted which shows in fact that this example of economic recovery measures shows that, as otherwise, as this and other measures of economic recovery are strategically designed and set out in that programme. So, if we wanted to start two or three years ago with a measure like this, it couldn't be carried out in a quality way like at the moment that it was finished, or when the fundamental most important reforms of the public finances system were implemented. Therefore, the system of budgetary processes and public finances management has been improved in this way and has received good grades from the most relevant external institutions and the European Commission itself. Therefore, they have been improved in such a way that specific sources of funding can be monitored through the state budget and that there is no need for the establishment of specific budget beneficiaries in the form of funds or agencies or institutions. So, because it can all be carried out through the state administration's own bodies. There is also the possibility of greater flexibility in the state budget itself, i.e. the possibility to transfer these dedicated funds from year to year. Strategic planning, programming, setting targets and monitoring of the effectiveness of achieving these objectives has been introduced. These are essential preconditions in order to address such issues at all, which is to rationalise business and restructuring. So, and this is what really a modern state, only a modern state that has met the preconditions and basic reforms can do to both this Republic of Croatia and the Government, shows that the modern government that has a modern and modern foundation-based state. So what's even more important to point out is that I'm timing. This Regional Development Fund itself was founded in 2001, and in those 9 years, the Government of the Republic of Croatia put in the first place a uniform regional development. And when state budgets and strategic documents are looked at, the first strategy adopted for 2010, the eleventh and twelveth and now the second for eleventh, twelveth and thirteenth, you will all see that in strategic documents one of the key strategic priorities and objectives is just a balanced regional development. Therefore, by abolishing this fund, this objective is by no means put into the other plan, but only a better and better solution has been found to achieve better results with less investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60001	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60002	We move to the Final Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Act on the Regional Development Fund of the Republic of Croatia, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. Number 605. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law on the termination of the Act on the Regional Development Fund of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 76 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 41 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60003	We move to the next point - Final bill on the termination of the Law on the Fund for Development and Employment, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 601 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Labour and Social Policy, Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Ivana Maletic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60004	Thanks again. Here, as for the Regional Development Fund and the Development and Employment Fund, it is also defined that all pre-conditions are actually necessary for the Fund to be abolished and that its activities can continue to be carried out in a quality manner through the relevant ministries. Therefore, it was no longer crucial to allocate dedicated funds through a specific fund and then achieve results through the work of a specific fund, but it is possible through the authorities of the state administration as I explained in the final word, thanks to the reforms implemented throughout the system of public finances management and the system of budgetary processes and the general system of state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60005	Thank you. Committees legislation, work and social partnership, development, regional, forestry and water economy. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60006	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary. First, let me say that the SDP will not support this bill for a number of reasons. First quite pragmatic and prosaic. We can't support the abolition of something we'll probably have to start in a few months. The second reason is an offensive explanation that we received as representatives when it comes to both this previous and this fund. Please look at that paper and don't insult anyone in it, treats us as if, let's not say a harsh word, as if we lack a little sense and as if we lack minimal responsibility to make decisions that are important to the functioning of the state and this country as a whole. The explanation says we're removing the fund because we decided to cancel, and nothing else is said. That's an explanation. And now that we've heard from Madam Secretary of State, we've made a decision on rationalization. Where did you make that decision? Why should we trust you? What was your argument? Where did you get any analysis of what this fund was doing, how much of it went out, how and why did the money that came into that fund get cut every year by one third less in the last seven years? You haven't told us in any word why you did it like that. Or why you didn't do what you needed, which was the mission of that fund. At the time the fund was established in 2001, it was a very clear vision of Croatia and its development, and it was clear, it was a clear mission of that fund, what it should have, how and how to obtain what results. Such funds are not invented by us, such funds have all European states. I remember in 2000 there were 500 thousand unemployed people in Croatia, 357 thousand registered unemployed, 180 thousand workers did not receive salaries, over half a million unemployed. In those moments, it was important to create both legal and institutional infrastructure that this serious job, the most important job for each government, should begin to be resolved, and therefore these two funds were established. And third, which you also abolished by the Trust Fund for the Employment of Persons with Special Needs. All three of you canceled because you didn't know what you were going to do with them. And now you're removing them because you've regained consciousness, as it has been said on many occasions and on this side, that you've started with a fist and a hat without any plan and no reason of the agency, to seduce people you don't know what you're going to do, and you needed them because these places served as political synergy. And now there's a trust that scares you not to know and you don't understand the purpose. The fund was aimed at, aimed at bringing together in different ways and coordinating development and employment-related jobs, which means not only being a transmitter, such as budget, state budgets, but also having to include a local community, it had to include economic, private business entities, dozens of banks there, there is HBOR, there are dozens, dozens of ministries that were directly involved and could not be made from one ministry. The ministries are defined as state administrative bodies, they achieve administrative objectives, administrative tasks. It's not, the ministries can't do as well as you think you're going to do and you say calmly they're going to translate I don't know how many employees etc. Well, that's not the point of the fund. What is the meaning of the fund that the ministry cannot do, it is not its constitutional or legal task. Gentlemen, in Croatia at this hour and not just at this hour, but in every serious country, there is nothing more to do than create new jobs. And that's true for the HDZ government, whether it's Sanader, whether it's Kosoricina, it's worth it to the SDP government, it's worth it to the HCHSP government, or I don't know which other parties, I don't have much of a job for us in Croatia. It's the beginning, it's the final, it's the first goal in this country. New jobs, just new jobs. All the stories of the European Union are falling to that end. What a European Union. The story of national dignity falls ahead of it. There's no hunger people and a hungry country, unemployed people don't stand a chance in anything. No social policy, no defense, no nothing unless there are new jobs. And in seven years, gentlemen, in seven years, the number of unemployed is the same as it was seven years ago, 305,000 people were unemployed in 2003 at the end, and now 305,000 are unemployed again. Nothing's agreed. We left you that 305,000, but 200 grand was employed. Gentlemen, instead of focusing and making some kind of effort to make this crucial, most enormous, most serious problem in this country, and this is one of the institutional levers to make it happen, you're making a decision not to blink because some official has been tasked with reducing the number of officials or agencies, or creating spin to solve this issue, and will move people from the fund to the ministry. You didn't recognize the meaning and importance. In the Nordic countries, the Scandinavian countries, which I had the opportunity to visit, these funds have incredibly branched out activities and incredibly great successes. I saw it in the Finnish Fund, and the point was when we started it, I saw a fund that went right towards risk projects, so what banks, those projects that the banks didn't follow because they were risky, these are the kind of funds they followed. It's these garage industries. You have today in the paper, last night I watched a whole series of inventions in Croatia, our inventors achieve the top results somewhere on the design of these technical inventions, aids, someone should follow them to develop the product. In 10 out of 30 cases it will be a failure, money will be lost, or maybe 20 will be lost, but those 10 Finns showed me, in 10 cases all these costs were covered, big profits were made. The companies realized, and the start-up companies they were following were tenfolding their incomes over a year or two, and the state was then getting rid of them, selling them, etc. So that was the point when we talked about why these funds should be set up. How, in what way to integrate, gather. Well, the ministry needs lawyers, that's administrative business. Well, it's not a job, so it's government officials, so it's not their job to do what the fund needs to do. So the decision you're making is not good, it's not good. When it comes to agencies, you should also go around the world a little bit and see what the agencies are doing. I remember these Nordic lands. I saw it at the Swedish Social Policy Agency, I don't remember exactly her name. 2,000 people worked at the agency, but the agency made tens of millions and hundreds of millions of revenues. They worked for the UN, for 50% of African states they worked different forms of social programs, etc., and of course they charged for it. They were very profitable. For the state of Sweden they worked and charged for what they were doing, projects for the Swedish government. Well, that makes sense. Don't let the water get the kid out. I don't see the seriousness of what you've been doing, if you've been doing, because if you've seriously analyzed it then you wouldn't have led to these conclusions and abolishing these 2 funds or 3, I also mentioned this one for hiring disabled people who are deeply unjust and who are making it difficult for them to get back into the situation since 2000 and their difficult employment. So the crowd is the reason why this decision cannot be accepted and the crowd is the reason why it would be good for you to reconsider. To review it in this model of your rationalization of the state administration, do you help with this decision what you allegedly want to achieve, rationalize and economic recovery or get away with. I believe you're getting away, and we need to start talking about how executive power works. Don't do that, let's not let that normative optimism and delusion that we will solve problems with everyday changes to the law. We're out of practice, we're out of executive power. We here can laws that you want to pass and current laws, current regulations throughout the whole range of areas give good grounds to act, but it doesn't work, but it doesn't work. And it doesn't make sense if something's wrong, let's get it off. Let's wonder why it doesn't work if it doesn't work. This fund unfortunately tended to be shut down for seven years. Every year, less and less, but somewhere around 2 billion kunas went through that fund. I know about 10-ac, 20 projects recently in which the fund has supported good projects, good programs and that nothing else justifies its function even with those modest and increasingly smaller separations that went from the state budget. The government, the ministries can't make up for the fund. The fund is a financial institution, the ministries are something else entirely. Keep that in mind, and don't make any quick decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60007	Thank you. HDZ club, Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60008	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to say a little bit later, but I'm going to look back on what's certainly most important, and that's that we've been here all day in the assembly listening to the fund being abolished and one and the other, and nobody in particular from the opposition is going to say that there isn't going to be an end. We've been talking here all day about mergers and Mr. Vidovic and everyone's saying it's being lifted, how it stops working, etc. Oh, please don't be surprised when you were talking about it earlier, and I've been through a few corrections of the quote saying that nothing is lifted but attached. So far, the work of the fund has truly justified its trust. Dear friends, those people who are connected to the economy, but not exclusively to deal with politics and political diction here to speak will certainly give a very positive assessment to every project because over 200 users have been used in these past years, so exclusively legal businesses. The fund has had over 200 million kunas per year and we can freely say that over 2 billion kunas that have entered the economy have been spent in the last 8.9 years of its project. Here, too, respected colleagues and colleagues, we must say that by hiring funds, over 3,500 people have been employed. But at the same time, we're going to ask ourselves again, especially from people who don't want to talk about economic development here, but rather about politics, and how much has been fired lately? Well, it was fired because it's a global economic and economic crisis. But at the same time, if we take care, and I'm sure we'll lead, because the government is right through its economic savings measures, so no way to train the economy as soon as possible, does everything to get out of this crisis in its budget and in the future does everything it does to not just through a fund that will act individually but through the Ministry of Economy where all these people who have worked in the fund are going to do exactly those programmes and end these programmes that they have started. I am saying this because I know that in Požega-Slavonia County, many users of legal persons, businesses, which are precisely on the basis of these funds, and the funds that were at an extremely favourable interest, with the addition of Euro Libora, have developed their economies, hired people and achieved extremely good results. In particular, this refers to the wood industry. It also applies to the metal industry and to all the processing industry that you haven't talked about today. You speak exclusively of how it is abolished, how it is done, and I am telling you through this very few data exclusively of financial means what entrepreneurship is, that is, that this production in the Republic of Croatia has just been given by investing these funds. And I'm sure when Croatia comes out of this crisis that just now the government will recognize the interest of this institution that will be in the Ministry of Economy to continue its work, but even stronger and even more high-quality with far more resources because only such a way of working saves the economy in Croatia and I'm sure it guarantees us a bright future both in Croatia and in the world. I especially must stress here that the Fund has just done the following, in particular it has stimulated the exporters gentlemen, as the HBOR is doing today and you can't say then, someone has said that, that the objectives have not been achieved in this Fund. I am saying this exclusively from an economic perspective and I am sure that all those who have said different words today are not correct, we can be courting here, citizens, in one way or another, but gentlemen if we want to save the economy, if we want to save Croatia, and we save because if we expand the economy and if the economy develops, but only we can if we tell the truth. Then we will contribute to the even development of Croatia, then we will contribute to the fall of economic downturn, or we will achieve economic growth. Therefore, I am not the one who would speak differently here on behalf of this party's policy or one, but I am also speaking to the economy in part of what I do and my friends who used these funds and companies that I know used funds from Požega-Slavon County. I agree that the continental part of today lags behind this southern part, because they simply have one production that can develop differently today, faster than we can in the continental part. I invite everyone, especially people of good faith, who know and can, who are managers in large companies, and also you politicians who come from this or that party, to make yourself available, in the continental part, especially those companies that are in difficulty, which are caused by the global economic crisis and here I call on all of them to come to the neighbouring county, to make available to Đura Djakovic, who once hired 20,000 people, to make themselves available to all those companies in Požega-Slavon County when so much knowledge is shown here. We need such people, we don't need political speeches, we need people who create, who know how to give good advice, and they're welcome. Therefore, dear friends, I think it is high time for us to adopt the budget for next year to understand the message that our economy is most important in the Republic of Croatia and to help all those who have one employee, let alone those companies that employ 200, 300, 500 or more people. It is not good that here, especially from this place, there is a lack of confidence in the people who run companies today, that all those who deal with the economy, especially if they are a little involved in politics are immediately referred to as criminals, thieves and every other word "Remetinec". I ask you esteemed friends who will come to this assembly tomorrow if we think at the same time, and especially say that these are the people who deal with crime, and at the same time are the businessmen, and therefore you don't have people here in the Chamber today who come from the economy because they simply don't want their authority, their children, their family to expose themselves to this retrospective as we heard today in this House, and that with the harshest words when Slavonia is mentioned he will try to defend Slavonia, and I assure you, Slavonia can only defend himself and we will defend ourselves because we know what we do and all those who have programmes will be accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And most of all, those who don't have projects, who don't have programmes, and at the same time think they should get funds from both budgets or pre-accession funds or from some other funds that monitor the economic development of each whole. And of course I could certainly talk a lot more about all this, but I think this fund has fully justified trust and it is my wish that when it joins the Ministry of Economy, and the Ministry of Economy is obliged to take care of the development of every economic unit, there is even more resources than it has ever had. By doing so, we will not have dissatisfied employees who have lost their jobs, so we will certainly have employees who will have higher personal incomes, but respected friends here must say something special. And our unions have to understand that they can't be run this way and that they can't manage companies like this with owners. I'm saying this for one reason why our unions don't choose the means to exercise their rights, and at the same time not to ask the owner how and how he realizes his economic activity, whether he has reduced business volumes, I repeat again primarily because of the global and economic crisis. And they simply want and see only their future in the exercise of their rights. We are witnesses and we certainly know for sure today I will not talk about it, that public companies have been receiving personal income for years without earning at the same time, and that these same companies and these trade unions are asking the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make contracts for them, to sell them goods, to store their goods, and I don't know what requirements they don't have. Therefore, if we abandon such work and are aware that only development can be through such funds or through the Ministry of Economy and supported by the budget of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, pre-accession funds, then we are sure that in the future we will have a situation in the economy far more complex, we will have safer satisfaction for the employees but we must all help together in this. If we are politically outsmarted, who better to speak for this speaker in a political dictionary then we must have been wrong, and then it certainly isn't good. Remember, all those who look at us and especially those who work in the economy do not want to listen to our political speeches, but concrete proposals, so let's insist all together in support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in support of solving the accumulated problems and these global and economic crises, because the best indicators are that the companies dealing with it today in the wood industry are recording growth, regardless of the decline we have experienced and we will certainly strive to reach the realisation of $1 billion and $100 million in the shortest time period of time, the exports of the wood industry and you must know that gentlemen today the wood industry has a 95% poverty base in Croatia, unlike other branches that have imports of raw materials 95%. Very little regardless of what we get every year in the 60 million kuna programme of the Ministry of Regional Development is not enough to make the wood industry develop in the sense that it should be. And the wood industry is the biggest employment potential of exactly that middle-class people, people who have SS, and I'm sure it's the best way for the Croatian government to recognize through these existing investments, through investments that will certainly increase that the wood industry is re-employing many people who have lost their jobs today. In the wood industry, 8 thousand people were left out of work, and in certain companies that are on state mangers, no employee was fired. So I'm giving a message to the unions, let them answer how and in any way that the wood industry that can withdraw and the number of employees and exports can achieve the best possible results, not to look back and condition this government with a strike or anything else just to achieve their union rights, and in particular some rights that we haven't even earned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60009	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mr. Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60010	Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of fellow MPs saying that the proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Development and Employment Fund does not end the fund, but we are adding it to the Ministry of Economy. That's not true. By that law, we abolish the fund. And my words aren't political, they're legal facts and economic facts. No more financial institutions. What the Ministry of Economy is about to carry out some activities is irrelevant. The Croatian budget for next year is in trouble, there will be no money, there will be far less and will not be seen in the economy ministry. And the fund's job would be to raise money in a situation like this outside the state budget both in local and regional environments, but also in companies that are successfully dealing with the crisis. It's a financial institution's business. And that's why it's both economic and legal clean-cutting and with harmful consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60011	Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60012	Dear Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the incorrect assumption that this fund will be even easier and better worked within the Ministry of Economy. Well, I guess everyone in this assembly understands that joining a financial institution to a management institution will be very burdensome in problems. Therefore, I cannot expect any improvement in the work of this fund through the accession of the Ministry of Economy. If it were to join HBOR, it would already be a different story. And it is also important here to point out that precisely in that fallen wood industry mentioned by a colleague, this fund had the possibility of entering firms in difficulty and had the opportunity to finance that export component. And that was the good side of this fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60013	Thank you. I'm interrupting the session. Resume at 15.00 hours. It's the club of representatives of HNS, HSU, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. At 3:00 a.m. Silvano.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60014	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60015	And the 40th session of the Committee on Gender Equality, today at Janko Draskovic's hall today at 1400 hours. Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60017	Mr Vice-President, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues, before us the proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for Development and Employment and of course does not leave anyone indifferent, because this Fund has had certain effects in terms of intervention in the settlement of workers' salaries, has had effects in promoting production for exports, has had effects in revitalisation, processing industry and what remains of it, and it is indeed a proposal to stop doing such a fund for us and most of us in the Croatian Parliament quite confusing, but most of us in this Croatian Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have the right to propose so we do not have to make it the most understandable. On the other hand, however, we must look for the good and the bad of these proposals. What bothers me on behalf of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired People is that in the assessment of the situation and the listing of the issues covered by this Act and the consequences that will arise from the adoption of the Law, it states that the decision has been taken on the basis of the results of the analysis carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the functioning of all these funds and has adopted a Decision on the reorganisation of agencies, institutions, funds and other legal persons with public authority. Neither I have seen this analysis nor I suppose most of the people in this House. You, Mr. Director of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, gave additional arguments that only the members of the Committee had the privilege of listening, and you told me that this was done because of the cost of renting space and because of the costs of representing the Fund itself in disputes, I have to say that I did a little research on this story and I have to say that the Republic of Croatia has quite a state property that could have solved the problem of renting space in another way. In fact, there are huge military vast spaces in Črnomerac where most agencies and funds could be placed, and that they pay practically only for the maintenance of these buildings and not for the rental of space, this should not be a problem for the Republic of Croatia. I've been investigating the costs of representing myself, and there's one huge cost that actually directed that fund towards a different representation in disputes. In fact, it's 7 or 8 years old when the Development and Employment Fund asked for help in representing the state's attorney and the total cost turned out to be invoiced by the State's Attorney's Office for 400,000 kuna, which is a huge cost but could have been beaten by the state. I don't know how much he has the right and how much he has the right to charge a financial institution owned by a state and whether it had to be. Of course, if the cost is so high, it later went to represent the specialised institutions in charge of representation. What is controversial in this story is that it would be quite logical for the Fund for Development and Employment as a financial institution to join, for example, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. He was under the full control of the finance ministry, and in the end he could still stay there and I see no reason and no effect for this fund to be attached to one administrative institution, the economy ministry that doesn't know what to do with it. We can talk today whatever we want but the fact is that it was the Ministry of Finance that had it under control, that the HBOR would have it under control tomorrow because it would also be a financial institution, however, this is quite a illogical solution for me. What I would like to comment on about this proposal is that here, in the interpretation of the articles of the law, it says, in articles 1 to 6 of the provisions of these articles, the termination of the Law on the Fund for Development and Employment, the termination of the work of the Fund, the way in which jobs, assets, equipment, food, other documents, etc., the financial resources of workers having a contract with the Fund, and I say that this is not a problem. What's being arranged is not a problem. There are no predictions anywhere about possible consequences, which is with clients, so the users of the credit lines of the fund, which is with the representation of the fund, whether the ministry will be able to represent the fund according to third parties without any problem in further proceedings. What's a relationship to loan users, which is mortgages, are some precise contracts that are concluded, which is with bankruptcy and executive procedures. Therefore, there are a number of questions that are raised here in the light of the bill that he did not answer. I have suggested in my time that this Law go into two readings, the Prime Minister did not accept it, I can't do anything there, but I think it would be correct to go into two readings and therefore the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retirement wants with two amendments that we have put on the bench here to make adoption of this Law at least more logical than it is written. In this regard, we propose that in Article 3(2) of the proposal for a law, the words "degree of power" should be changed with the word "additions". And that Article 7 states that this Law will not enter into force on the day of its publication in the National Journal, but will enter into force on 1 January 2011. Why do we propose that? We propose because there are certain obligations set out in this law and in Article 3 where the Government in Article 3(2) says that it will first adopt a regulation governing the internal structure of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship for the purpose of taking over the operations of the Fund for Development and Employment and in paragraph 3 says: "The Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship will bring the Internal Order Regulation in line with the Regulation referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article within 15 days of its adoption." So, this amendment does not want to affect at all, or we do not want to affect the government's intention at all. We just want all the actions to be made in time and logical order, which means that it would be appropriate for the time to go into force after this law takes place for 20 to a month, to adopt this regulation and regulation and that the law enters into force from 1 January 2011. I think that would be correct and it doesn't seem unacceptable to me at all. And ultimately, a business year has to end, and why does someone at the Ministry of Economy have to do the accounting for the business year? What I'm trying to say is that we're cutting off one fund, and before we faced a report on the operation of that fund in 2010. I mean, an indication of whether to eliminate or reason should be much more valid than just an analysis of the large cost of fund work. Because this isn't just a fund, this is a fund that he invested, that created jobs, that supported production and that could go in where banks couldn't get in for their own criteria, that settled labour claims. I'm not saying that it's all excellent and ideal, it can always be better, but the fact that this institution itself as a special we won't have but we'll have interventionism through the Ministry of Economy which doesn't sound too good. that and that's the last thing I'm going to say, the message also to end this fund, the messages to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is very bad. We are abolishing something that was concerned with something that is most needed for the Republic of Croatia at this time, so we are abolishing development and employment. Without it, there is no progress of the Republic of Croatia and the message is really bad. Of course, in the end, I'm going to say that I'd like to make sure that the Proposer accepts these amendments because they are correct. But whether or not they will, we can't because of this message that I said and for all the good that the fund has done and because we don't believe it will work better within the frameworks of the Ministry of Economy, we can't as a club of HNS and HSU give support to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60018	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60019	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We are facing a very short law that abolishes the activities of the Development and Employment Fund. The law in Article 1 states: "The day of entry into force of this law ceases to apply the Fund Act and the date of entry into force of this law ceases with the work of the Fund." So, the effective fund is being abolished and it's a great shame, because it's a fund that has invested about 2 billion kuna in the economy so far and helped to employ around 3.5 thousand people on extremely high-quality business projects and programmes, and those based on innovation, knowledge, development. Let us remember that the Fund worked extremely well with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, that is, during Racan's government which founded this fund with the Ministry of Science and Technology. There were also close links with state institutions such as BICR, Institute of Technology, and then with the HITRA Test programmes, etc. Thus, the fund played its part to speed up the transfer of knowledge and for scientific academic communities to the economy. Unfortunately, by joining the fund or by drowning the fund in the Ministry of Economy, the fund will definitely and the remaining employees of the fund will definitely lose their autonomy and the logic of things will be exposed to the discretionary law of the Minister and State Secretary. This law absolutely says nothing about the position of these fund employees listed in the Ministry of Economy, and moreover, this law prerogatives the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship to comply with the Internal Order and to take over property, etc. This is another law that is passed in a way that not all circumstances, studies, analysis, what is this law that we adopt has a final impact on the economy in this case and on employment for the growth of gross social product and entrepreneurship as such. Unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia is in such a situation that there is not enough quality capital and the fact is that this fund has acted entrepreneurially, investingly that this fund has acted as a corporate investment capital, even such capital with a slightly higher risk margin, an acceptable risk. However, precisely because the fund was well-designed, well-conceived, well-leaded was relatively few such cases that the fund’s investments proved to be bad or extremely risky. If the Government had given us MPs some reasons and initiatives, alternative mechanisms that would continue to encourage such a way of investment entrepreneurship, socially responsible entrepreneurship, the way innovators of entrepreneurs who want to base their entrepreneurship on knowledge and innovation could come to a fresh capital I would understand. This law, unfortunately, is just a mere eye rubdown to the general public who may at times rightly have an animosity to a huge number of para-state institutions, but I'm afraid that in an attempt to clear the situation, the number of agencies is reduced to make major mistakes. Here we have heard even in debates from ruling MPs that they hope that once they get back up, the conditions will be re-activated by this fund. However, the question arises why we are already doing this, why do we remove it when we might somehow restructure it, attach it to the HBOR, but in a way that remains autonomous in its role as this investment venture capital. And I would have ended up, if this had been one great, far-sighted move of Racan's coalition government that recognized innovation in joining the economy. This solution was also in line with the solutions found in the most developed countries in the democratic world, and it is indeed a shame that the fund is abolished for no significant purpose, reason and of course, without a deeper analysis which would have been presented to us by the representatives, delivered, explained, that we make sure that this is a smart move which unfortunately is not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60020	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60021	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Development and Employment Fund, with the final proposal for a law, is an interesting proposal from the position of the HDSSB. In fact, the idea of this fund was to develop and hire from the point of view of the even development of a particular region. Again, an interesting thesis on the even development of certain regions, and we see that this thesis is, in fact, from all the accepted truth that Slavonia and Baranja are lagging behind the rest of Croatia, and then this fund, as compared to the fund we just talked about, about the Regional Development Fund, has not actually carried out its primary purpose. Here I also removed the criteria for funding the development programmes and the purpose of the funds of this fund. The funds are primarily intended for development programmes and projects that encourage crafts, small and medium-sized enterprises, and then to encourage employment of workers, especially young people and educated people. Then to support the county programmes that invest their own resources in the realisation of the employment programme, then to encourage counties, cities and municipalities to open business and development centres, to encourage projects that developmentally activate state-owned real estate and equipment and to rebuild war-torn demining and ecological recovery facilities, and to return exiled and refugees and for other programmes. When we look at all these seven points to the letter g then it's as if it's built or rooted right for the area of Slavonia and Baranja, and when we look at the investment of the fund that followed on the basis of these supposed criteria that exist publicly and can be made public on the Internet, for example. Gentlemen from the fund and colleagues and colleagues here we also have a list of investments from the Fund for Development and Employment in the economic sectors. So, starting with the wood industry, I'm talking about Brod-Posavina County right now, there's not a single project that was supported by this fund. Furthermore, in the pharmaceutical industry, too, in the Mediterranean industry, none, in the processing industry either, in the food industry or either. So, textile-skin, construction industry, military industry, shipbuilding, thank God we don't have that in Slavonia except for our hands, boats, so we don't have any projects. These are your pages, your document gentlemen from the fund, so the Brod-Posavina County is gone. Now I wonder if this is the reason why the projects are not run from the county itself and the owners of Brod-Posavina County or is the reason in the criteria of the fund that have not assigned any kuna to the ship-Posavina County economies. So when we talk about the abolition or termination of the work of this fund and the accession of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship will not be a great shame for many Slavonian counties, and especially for the Brod-Posavina County, we could support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60022	I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60023	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Development and Employment Fund, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. Number 601. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The amendments were submitted by the HNS representative club, HSU. I would like to ask Mr. Zdravko Marić to show himself about the amendments to the HNS Club of Representatives, HSU. First amendment to Article 3(2)?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60024	The government doesn't accept. Namely... The law cannot be passed until the law enters into force. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60025	On behalf of the club, please. Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60026	This is the first one I know we've made one nomotechnical mistake, so I'm withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60027	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment 2 to Article 7
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60028	The government also does not accept the possibility of short-term changes in the course of the year, but given the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme, although the Budget Act also provides for the possibility of short-term changes in the course of the year, we believe that it is better that this law enters into force on the day of publication or as soon as possible to implement the measures of the Hodogram, not only of this law but of the entire Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60029	Mr. Silvano Hrelja in the name of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60030	Dear Mr. Maric, dear secretary of state, this fund has certainly left a mark for the past 10 years and would be a minimum of correctness with a trail, a positive trace in the economy of the Republic of Croatia, would be a minimum of correctness to allow the end of the business year and to begin or stop working on January 1st of next year. However, the government has other intentions, but I don't think there's any valid reason for the fund to stop working on November 1st. I therefore remain with my opinion and request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60031	Thank you. We vote on the 2nd amendment to Article 7 which the Government does not accept. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This amendment was not accepted, 47 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 63 against. I am voting on the final draft law on the termination of the Law on the Development and Employment Fund. Let's please get involved and vote on the bill. Score. The bill was adopted by a majority of votes, 72 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 38 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60032	We are going to the next item - Final bill amending the Law on Forests, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 602. The Proposer is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative, Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. The amendments were proposed by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development and Forestry and Water Economy Herman Sušnik will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60033	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs. Here is a proposal for a law amending the Law on the Forests with a final draft of the law. The Government of the Republic of Croatia reached a conclusion at the meeting held on 23 July 2010 that adopted the proposal to reorganise agencies, institutions, funds and other legal entities with public authority. That conclusion refers to the forestry sanitary service so that these amendments propose to take over the services of forestry and advisory services and transfer them to the jurisdiction of the Croatian Forests d.o.o. The Forest Advisory Service was established in 2006 by the Regulation establishing the Forest Advisory Service and under the Law on Forests. It is established for the purpose of carrying out operations and keeping records of forest owners' forests and for the purpose of improving, managing forests and forest land owned by forest owners. Certainly, the situation in the economy also affects the organisation and reduction of the number of agencies, institutions and funds. In order for the service to work even better and to cover the entire field of private forests in the Republic of Croatia, which has about 581000 ha, an additional number of employees should be employed, which is now out of the question. Croatian forests d.o.o. they have the necessary infrastructure so that the work to help the forest management of forest owners will continue with the fact that, through the law, they continue to provide funds for that purpose. Croatian forests will be taken over by jobs, employees, equipment, rights and obligations of the Forest and Advisory Service. We received two amendments from the Legislative Committee, first on Article 2. So in Article 2, paragraphs 1, 2 and 4, the "new" shall be deleted. It's a nomotechnically supplementing sentence. We accept that amendment. Article 9a is replaced by the following: which reads as follows: "Article 80(1) of this Act states: "Article 30(1), (3), (5) and (6) are replaced by the words "Article 30(1) and (3)." So it leaves out 5 and 6. This is also a legal and nomotechnical amendment, and this amendment is accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60034	The committees? Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy Vice-President Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60035	The Committee shall comply with the provisions of Article 88. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law in the capacity of the home working body and the majority of the members of the committee did not object to the proposal for an emergency procedure for its adoption. The President of the Proposer, explaining the reasons why this law should be adopted, pointed out that these amendments to the Law on Forests will allow the implementation of the plan for the implementation of the economic recovery programme adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is one of the measures and the reorganisation of the Agency, the Institute, the Funds and other legal persons with public authority. The president also pointed out that the tasks so far carried out by the forest advisory service will be carried out equally successfully within the Croatian forests that will be taken over under this law. The members of the Committee shall be informed of the written opinion submitted by a group of entrepreneurs in the area of forestry by a group of undertakings in the proposal for a Law amending the Forest Act with a final proposal for a law to this Committee, but also to other institutions of the State. Following the opening presentation of the representatives of the proposers, the majority of the committee members also assessed in principle the need to support the adoption of this law in order to rationalise services and savings in the state budget. In his debate, the competent representative of the Croatian Association of Private Forest Owners pointed out that the forest advisory service has launched and carried out many activities for which forest owners are particularly interested, such as the construction of forest roads. It is therefore doubtful for the forest owners whether and in any way within the Croatian forests the funds will be used in the future... to complete projects that are under way for private forest owners. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The President of a group of entrepreneurs in the area of forestry, explaining the written opinion given on this proposal for the law, pointed out that this legislative proposal does not comply with the legal property of the European Union, that its constitutionality and legality are questionable, and that it prevents the management of private forests and private forest owners from being placed in an unequal position. In the following debate, the opinion of the Committee member states that the Forests Act requires broader and more changes than these which are now proposed more the same as the RES announced in June of this year when the amount of compensation for the common useful functions of the forest was reduced. He pointed out that the issue of determining large, medium and small forest owners remains open in view of the amount that must be deducted from the revenues of selling wood assortants to the budget of the self-government unit and on behalf of the maintenance of forest roads built through their forests. It also points to the need for implementing regulations to adequately regulate the allocation of resources for the general services of forest functions, but also to draw attention to the non-compliance of some of the proposed solutions set out in this legislative proposal, Article 2 of this Act, which amends Article 30 and Article 80. Forest law. During the debate, the opinion was also made that the abolition of the Forest Advisory Service is obviously not a proposal for a forest profession but is proposed only because of the questionable savings in the state budget, and without a clearly defined assessment of the impact of this law on the economy, i.e. on the management of forests of private forest owners. By supporting the adoption of this law, some board members estimated that the proposed amendments to the Forest Law would not endanger private forest owners or entrepreneurs in the area of forestry, as there would be enough work for all forest management. On the basis of the debate held, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament voted in favour of, 3 votes against, it decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law amending the Law on Forests.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60036	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club Mr Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60037	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Director, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of my presentation, I will say that the SDP Club will not support these amendments and additions to this Act, and I will state the reasons in the debate. When a public debate began between us five years ago about the new Forest Act, the whole Forest Act was designed differently and otherwise conceived. But it seems that in that part, from the public debate itself to the government, he disappeared somewhere in the transcript and was quite different from being presented and proposed to the Croatian Parliament for adoption. The reasons why we are reading it today in the newspapers, about the FIMI media affair, about some of the things that are from the contract of selling wooden varieties to customers, that one year 140 thousand oak logs were sold more than the plan of producing Croatian forests and opportunities for that year. So clearly through the Law, politics was also wanted to get involved in all possible ways in a public enterprise, or a 100% state-owned company. When this Law was passed five years ago, some fellow foresters claimed that it was a good law for the simple reason that private forest owners separate themselves from the management and forestry of the then public business of the Croatian forest, i.e. from the Croatian forests d.o.o. And second, as far as the Croatian forests are concerned, nothing changes, and for the foresters, it's good. What makes you think like that? The reason lies primarily with regard to the former state towards private forest owners, the small private forest owned by a fragmented area, such as enclaves or semi-inclaves in forests or agricultural areas, without the possibility of a significant impact on the wood industry or the supply and demand of wood varieties. These forests primarily met the needs of their owners' tree, and unfortunately the Republic of Croatia's relationship to private forests did not change significantly. There have been attempts to inventory through the creation of a private forest management program but nothing more. All amendments to the Forest Act are subject to State ownership, i.e. to Croatian forests as a public undertaking or a state-owned company. Ignoring the opportunities of private forest owners, i.e. 22% of forest and forest land areas in the Republic of Croatia, which are privately owned, it is also forgotten that Article 19 of the Forest Act, where it is stated that forest policy and strategy will be adopted, that the inventory of forest land would be different for a simple reason because today's abandoned agricultural land is converted into forests and should be qualityd to be quality forests. Such thinking also accepted this Law on Forests, which we now exchange by applying that sufficient forest advisory services will be provided for private forest owners. During the adoption of the Law on Forests, it was forgotten that in 1996 the Parliament also passed a Law on the return of nationalised and seized property during the southern communist rule and that the applications already submitted were about 150 thousand hectares of forest, with a surface of 12 thousand hectares and that first-degree solutions had already been made. These findings were just mentioned on the board as a problem, which is a small forest owner, which is a medium forest owner, which is a great forest owner. The Law on the Forests itself, with its quality which is important and the position of forests and forestry in the Republic of Croatia, then predicated and envisaged the establishment of a forest chamber and the Chamber of Forest Engineers of Forestry and Wood Industry, the separation of state and private ownership or management, the possibility of developing private forest owners through the newly established forest advisory service, and what is bad is a centralised enterprise under the high influence of politics. It is a good thing that OKFŠ remains a detachment for generally useful forest functions, for all those forests and forest land that cannot normally have incomes where the cost of management is far higher than the revenues generated, especially the forests on the cross and some other forests that are outside of regular management. What is somewhat illogical in the Law on Forests is that the Republic of Croatia shows its interest in Article 6 through public authorities, i.e. monitoring the basics of the area, i.e. management of economic units and forest management programmes. What is forgotten is that it is the interest of the Republic of Croatia to buy forests and forest land, regardless of what is stated by law, that funds from generally useful forest functions can be spent in the purchase of forests and forest land, but just as I mentioned the return of forests and forest land seized and nationalised property, unfortunately there is no will and desire for the management of these forests, but a variety of bags, various investors come and offer money for such forests. What is also illogical in the Law, which is an article 41 of the illegal acquisition of private forests. The forest law and the forest protection regulation, which is only internal because it was adopted at the level of the Croatian forests. For private forests, it is determined by the County Assembly. Here we have an advisory service that is at the level of the Republic, and the measures of illegal immigration are brought by the County Assembly, measures to protect against illegal adoption. What is then in collegiate with Article 42? Forest law. Next, in Article 47(5), for the maintenance of forest roads, private forest owners shall allocate 2 and a half percent of the value of the tree on the floor, to the budget of the units of local self-government, and for these funds, the units of local self-government must maintain forest roads passing through those forests. Now let's look at one forest that has a thousand kuna income a year, so 2 and a half percent, that's about 25 kuna or 25 kuna, and now the local self-government unit has to put it back through road maintenance. Also in Article 65 of the legal persons performing the sale, they pay a forest contribution of 3 and a half percent, or 5% for the price of the products on the stage, 3 and a half percent for normal units to say so in, and 5% for special public care in mountain-mounted areas as well. And then it shows you in the paper how the local self-government unit gets 100 thousand kuna one year, and the second year they get 500 kuna from the forest, so on. Forest rents. For what reason? Because according to the plans of the flowers, the annual works in a particular area, on one unit of local self-government, you can have it called... The sector that carries big money, big incomes to local self-government units, and the second year of it is gone, and normally, that there are no incomes either. [[You don't understand.]] And units of local self-government are required to bring in a programme of spending these funds in the construction of infrastructure. Now one year you have 100 thousand kuna, another year you have 500 kuna. How to get that program in line and how to make it. I think it would be more logical to go to the surface and in this way continuously, at least from the state woods to contribute to local self-government units to have continued income. What's also a little bit illogical, I mentioned small, medium and large forest owners, whether they're just small, and whether they're big everything depends, is just paying for the design of programs, forest management programs for those woods. We now have the case that a thousand, two, 12 thousand acres of forest and forest land has been returned to the management of former owners, and now their country, or from the funds of general useful functions, is their program. Croatian forests have so far managed, brought programmes, i.e. basically management, and now again the state pays for that same extraordinary audit, regular programme revision, or it does not matter what we call it in that part. We are for small forest owners to be helped with the design of the program, but we also believe that these great forest owners must submit part of their obligations. What was good in the Law on the Forests, which is the establishment of an advisory service, is precisely that in this way small forest owners, to enable association, to enable them to get acquainted with the problem of forestry, to enable them to try to fight the wood varieties market through various associations, to be present, and to give them the value, their value, their grandfathers and their fatherland to bring them as much profit as possible. However, the law itself, and then the regulation on the establishment of an advisory service, unfortunately, does not provide for this, but is foreseen that the forest advisory service is also engaged in the management of these forests in private forests. And so now the problem is that then it had to be, and I said several times in this House that a real parallel company with the Croatian forests, owned by the state, which is mastered by private forests, and I have mentioned several times that there is a disturbance in the wood variety market, precisely for those reasons that the tree escort from these forests was valid for 15 days. We can only imagine how this escort can then be brought out of that private forest in those 15 days without speaking from other forests. Therefore, the advisory service, yes, but not in this form as it was organised, but as it is now serving small forest owners, can also be large, just in consultation, precisely in what these forest owners need to be able to manage more easily on the market. Furthermore, as regards the advisory services themselves and budget savings, salaries for the advisory service are 16 million kuna, according to the budget rebalancing for this year, 40 million kuna support to private forest owners for the production of the programme and other purposes. In the 2009 business report, Croatia's forests were operating with a profit of 11 million kuna. Since this year is not much better than last year, as far as some economic movements are concerned, I am afraid that the transfer of the advisory service under the Croatian forest will be done by Croatian forests, if they do business with zero, then they will be fine. On the other hand, the Croatian forests seem to have given up the restructuring of the Croatian forests, as they would not be burdened with new employees and new employees in the Croatian forests. Furthermore, since the time is nearing my end, I must thank you for correcting Article 2, or adding this through the Committee on Legislatives, but I must say one more thing, and unfortunately I did not see it then, you have to compare the article 82, there too is not right for you. And the other thing, the one relating to the start of application, on the day of entry into, by publishing in the National Journal. Is that 1.1.2011, is that 1.12., in those 2.3 months, not much can be said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60038	Thank you. SDSS Club, Mr. Representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60039	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry. In this comment on the proposed Law amending the Law on Forests, I will try to give a political review, that is, of our view of this whole issue. In any case, forestry is one specific branch that should not have too much ambition to deal with unless you are these professions. So, I don't have any excessive ambitions to go into this risk zone to speak incompetently about some specificities of the forest profession, but I'm going to try to give one of our views of this whole initiative that I think is just a continuation of today's debate and tomorrow's debate on several legislative texts that are being changed so that a certain part of the administration can be adapted to the government's decision that, in accordance with the economic recovery plan and programme, should be restructured, and I'd say that certain agencies and funds that we formed a few years ago, teamed up, placed on the market and let them work. So one basic question is raised here, what did the legions of this entire legal text say? So it turns out that he's given up the legion of this abolition of an agency that only started working to make a formal budget savings amounting to this moment, as my colleague said earlier, I believe he's right, some 16 million kunas that relate exclusively to the nominal salary of the agency's employees. I think that things should be set differently, that this racio legion should be different, should apply to the essence of things, which is that the profession itself says whether it is necessary whether the established agency has fulfilled its tasks, whether it should continue to exist on that basis, whether it is not good because of the poorly set concept or because of the failure to meet some expected things, some of the expected results that we expected when we formed it five years ago. I'll say two things here. First, the forest advisory service itself is a public institution which, by providing free advisory services and by exercising public authority, helps users to manage and improve the state of private forest properties in the Republic of Croatia. That's what it says in the definition, maybe I didn't interpret it to the end, but that's the point. So, what's the accent on? It is the public institution's accent, the public and the institution, its public powers and, as far as I understand, the provision of free advisory services. It's something that's the essence of the service that we formed five years ago, let her go into traffic, let her work, and now we're talking about her existence. The users of forest advisory services were forest owners or so far they were forest owners of the Association of Forest Owners, units of local self-government, units of regional self-government, fire associations, etc. So, all those associations, all those associations that weren't directly related to the company that runs the biggest forest fund in the Republic of Croatia. The forest advisory service was probably set up five years ago as a need for society to start caring for some 500 or 600 thousand hectares of private forests as a special society of this wealth. So, ever since it formed five years ago, to this day, in the private woods of what we've learned has started an intense restoration of the forest roads. So it was restored, according to some data, about 100 km of forest roads so far, that 108 management programs were created on the surface of some 142 thousand hectares of private forests, some half a million seedlings were planted, forest owners' associations were established, and what somehow seemed to me to be the most attractive for the everyday lives of people, which is that the forest advisory service subsidized 200 kuna a day for the shaming, for the shaming operations. It means this way to me, if I have my own private hectare of the forest that's been cut down, I need to rebuild it, family and me or someone I hire, we can do it and get subsidies for 200 kn a day for that job done. This seemed pretty good to me in this situation when in the middle of which I come every kuna means a big deal and this way, it was possible to hire a certain private, smaller private company that formed when agencies were formed, when this forest advisory agency, service was formed, outside of the big system that manages the forest fund under some of its rules. So there's one final question when I'm talking about this forest advisory service. What idea did we have when we formed this service in 2005? What did we, as a community that observes the forestry sector in a certain way, want to do with that service? I guess we wanted to raise the quality of private forest owners' concerns to a higher level than it was by 2005. Otherwise, they would not create such a service, not team it, not invite some people to switch from other jobs and other services to this service, to work, etc. And now the question also arises what is the idea that this is now abolished, and we have not previously realized that this service has not done, or that we have not realized that it has not completed the task for which it was formed five years ago. There is, therefore, a logical conclusion that some 15, 16 million salaries are being saved at the annual level of officials, or officials who will work in the ministry, and we are shutting down one service. Gasimo, I say we shut down because we have not yet seen the concept that the great system, i.e. the trade society of the Croatian Forests, which manages the largest forest fund in the country, will understand in the future the work of this advisory service. Will the advisory service within the system be at the level of... That's what I'm saying right now because I know a lot of things about it, or it's going to keep the status of the service that will then serve in certain economic spaces, forest economic spaces, service and do a job that has done so far only in a different form. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm kind of under the impression that this concept that we're being proposed here in some way relative to the quality of services and the care of private forests is two steps backwards. So we're going two steps back from what we have right now. I'm not going to talk about OKFSH here as one fund that comes in about 450 to half a billion kunas a year for generally useful forest functions, and I'm not going to talk about that part of about 90 million kuna being available to private forest owners through various forms of services. Therefore, one conclusion is also made that this part of the OkFŠ, which was intended for private forest owners, will now be available to the largest commercial company, and this will be used at an annual level of half a billion kuna, 400 kuna and some million kunas of the company's annual income. I wish I was wrong, I'd like it to be different if that part that was now available to some kind of nominal 85, 90 million kuna for private forest owners to continue to be transferred in the way that it was now from this great system. We have in the second part I would say something about our formal legal dilemmas, and it is mostly in the great dilemma whether or not the right of ownership is respected here, therefore, the right of self-involvement of private property and private forests, and I, as a self-owner, have the right to self-performing myself by respecting certain rules of the profession and to have the right to determine who will exploit them and how they will exploit them, I fear that in this way things are one that we have monopolized one market and that in this way we have excluded a number of small private companies that are believing, trusting the law when we have formed the services, believing that they will be able to exist with their smaller companies and participate in competitions to get precisely these kinds of jobs for the regulation of forests, private forest owners. So, I think we're going to get them out of the market this way and we're just going to completely monopolize the market in favour of the biggest company in the world. The following dilemma is the fact of the public authority that I had previously said, therefore, the company in my view cannot be the holder of public authority, while the forest advisory service was formed as a service with public authority, and could issue documents which were placed on the market of various documents, so that I do not list, could be placed on the market of products or goods of private forest owners and thus legalise them on the market. Therefore, as soon as it had public authority, they could carry out administrative proceedings in the event of an unsatisfactory party, etc. I fear that the company does not have that public authority and that this kind of procedure cannot be carried out. Finally, I believe that Article 11 of this proposed Law, in its position 3., where it says that it will be taken over by officials and tenants who cannot be deployed in accordance with the provision of paragraph 2 of this Article, the working relationship will be cancelled in accordance with the general rules on work. I'm in good faith that it won't happen, but it says here and this possibility is written here and I think people who believed in a public call when they hired in the newly formed Forest Advisory Services believed it would be a permanent job since it was a service with public authority. It is not their fault that these decisions are now put into a position to be placed on the market as a technological surplus because most likely the largest commercial company will take over only the forest profession, and those other service professions will probably not have too much space to work there. And in conclusion, I would say that we are experiencing forestry as a fundamentally important branch of the economy, except for those useful functions of the forest, we expect that in some future it is also the basis for other projects called the processing and use of the mass, here is now a very current thing. Public stands are going through all economic chambers, people are being educated, economies are being educated, local and regional, in the sense that these alternative sources of electricity and heat where the base was mass. I think that way one big system should be ready for the processes ahead of us and prepare in the most adequate way and not be welcomed by these things unprepared. I think, in conclusion, that we will probably accept this concept because it is in the spirit of the overall programme that the government has adopted, but we think that we should take into account in the second phase within the organisation of the service within the Croatian Forest's commercial society, to get an adequate place and keep that function of the bar in its foundation that they had through that first legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60040	Thank you very much. Before further discussion, one explanation. Earlier this morning, a fellow representative of STazic asked on behalf of the SDP Club that the government or foreign minister come to explain a alleged contradiction between Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban's statement, through his spokeswoman and prime minister of the government, that the Hungarian prime minister allegedly had denied the government's talks on the subject of a revision of the contract between MOL and Croatia in the management of INA. I have now collected all the necessary information on this request from the SDP Club and received the following. On 13 October this year, it was first announced that, as the government immediately denied that a telephone conversation was made between Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor and the Hungarian Prime Minister on the revision of the contract between MOL and Croatia in the management of the INA, which was immediately written in the business weekly, the business diary, after the misinformation was re-informed yesterday, one untrue again, the misinformation and untruth yesterday, the government also denied it on certain portals and in a certain diary. And also Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbam confirmed the words of Croatian Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, who on January 14th denied the diary that she had met with him and discussed the revision of the contract between MOL and Croatia on INA management. There's a very clear situation. Therefore, I informed the Prime Minister this morning about the SDP Club's request and, following this explanation, the Prime Minister should neither come nor come to explain anything more in the Croatian Parliament, nor the foreign minister, because it has again been denied the one misinformation given where both the government and the Hungarian prime minister have denied the misinformation that has re-emerged in some media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60041	Mr. Vice President. The SDP club asked Mrs. Kosor to come here and explain it either if she was prevented or the foreign minister. When it comes to Parliament or one club, we know it's always been like that and we don't need to lower those standards, so he can't say. She has nothing to come by. She's bound to come here when the Parliament invites her. But something else, Mr. Vice President, for your integrity, she can say tomorrow that she didn't say anything that you just told us.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60042	First, I will not call on the Prime Minister because I find it unnecessary to call on her, it is unnecessary to expose her to something that has been denied a single lie, which has also been denied by the Hungarian spokesman of the Hungarian prime minister, whom the government has also denied. So to drag the prime minister here before the Croatian Parliament to justify and deny a single lie. It would be a great job if the Croatian Parliament did so. Let's move on. Mrs. Djurdzica Sumrak's club of HDZ representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60043	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable state secretary with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. Here I must say on behalf of the HDZ Club it is my special honor to be able to say a few words today about these amendments to the forest law. The HDZ Club will, of course, support this proposal to amend the law because it is in line with the economic recovery programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as one of the measures for public administration reform, as one of these measures, an analysis is envisaged, the purpose of the existing structure of agencies, institutions and other regulatory bodies. The government also concluded on the implementation of activities related to the reform of the state administration and established appropriate guidelines. In line with all the central authorities of the State administration, the Ministry of Administration carried out an analysis of the rationality and structure and of the partial agencies, institutions, funds and other legal persons with public authority, taking into account the legal property of the European Union and the obligations made by the Republic of Croatia in the process of joining the European Union. The proposal for a reorganisation of agencies, institutes, funds and other legal entities with public authority shall be based on that conclusion, which sets out the need to establish a study of the purpose of part-round work, and the obligation to propose a rational organisation by joining, joining, or taking over their business in the central authorities of the state administration. In determining the purpose of the work of individual agencies, funds, institutes and other legal entities with public authority and the creation of a reorganisation proposal, care was taken of the same tasks already carried out in individual ministries and even established internal establishment units with the same name of agencies, institutes or funds. The reorganisation will take place in two phases, and in the first phase it is proposed to abolish, merge and attach legal persons with public powers which do not affect the fulfilment of the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia during the accession negotiations with the European Union. The first phase of the reorganisation includes a total of 14 legal persons with public authority. And the proposed reorganisation measures reduce their number to three legal entities. In the second phase of the technical consultations and the coordination of positions with the European Commission, further rationalisation of parts of agencies, institutions, funds and legal persons established or subject to the implementation of parts of the obligations arising from the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union will be proposed. This is about amending the Law on the Forests. Namely, it is about the acquisition of the forest advisory service to the Croatian forests. The advisory service was established in 2006 to carry out operations, keep records of forests, forest owners and business activities, then carry out public tenders for the production of forest management programmes, propose to the Ministry of approval of forest management programmes, participate in the development of forest land fire protection and forest owners' forests, and then develop operational annual recovery plans, biological and restoration of forest forest owners' forests. The forest advisory service began its work in 2007. In the light of its establishment, the Advisory Service called for a regulation on support for rural development of the European Commission 1698/2005. However, that regulation does not provide for legal form for the establishment of a forest advisory service and that is one of the responses to the president of a group of entrepreneurs in the field of forestry, who complained specifically about the Committee, and has just said that the advisory service is one of the forms of organisations requested by the European Union. I personally know a lot of colleagues and colleagues, really top experts, who have worked in that ministry among other things, and I think that service has done a good job. However, whether she justified her existence to the end in this form and spending the means that it is, I'm sure it isn't. There were 85 employees in the advisory service. The salary expenses were about 8.5 million, telecommunications services expenditures somewhere around 500 thousand kuna. But what's kind of the most that we care about, and that's the cost of intellectual services over 13 million kunas. So the Forest Advisory Service unfortunately ordered 13 million and 186 kuna intellectual services in 2009. For example. The Croatian Privatisation Fund ordered these same services for 9.5 million kuna, with 172 employees employed there. I'm very sorry, but in this way, the forest counseling service has become one consummate. This law proposes the accession of forest advisory services to the Croatian forests. It is important to say something about Croatian forests which is a limited-responsibility society and is a legal follower of Croatian forests. Organized forestry in Croatia has a long tradition, about 300 years old. The first documents in organized forestry are known from 1570, and in the code they appear at the time of Mary Teresa. However, Croatian forests were founded and started working in January 1991 and are a public company for forest management in the Republic of Croatia and it is a legal follower of several economic operators. Croatian forests d.o.o. Today, a three-layer company is owned by a state with a directorship in Zagreb. It has 16 administrations, i.e. the branch forest and 171 woods. The head of the company is the head of the board of directors, and the work is controlled by the Supervisory Board. Both are appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and basic decisions are made by the congregation of society. The company employs about 10,000 workers, of which 1250 are workers with high professional training. It is important now to say something about the forests and what the masters of the Croatian forests and what these forests mean for our Croatia. So it is important to say that the relief and climate diversity of Croatia also conditions its luxurious vegetation diversity of close to 2.5 million hectares of forest and forest land in Croatia, covering 37% of the total area of the country, 95% are natural forests and that is what Croatian foresters are proud of. The forest’s overgrown area is some 2 million acres [2 million ha], an unprocessed forest land takes up about 350 hectares and an infertile forest land of 61 hectares. So now there's a white-goat forest that predominates about 84% of the forest area. What is very important is to say that 5 million tons of oxygen are produced annually in reality. This is what forests produce them, so this is why Croatia and all of us together forests and protect and take care of them, and, of course, the forest profession is there, which has been a permanent, permanent maintenance. Of the total areas in forests and forest land on karst forests and land wastes about a million hectares. We must say that their basic value is also contained in their general functions on the preservation of soil from erosion and landscape formation. And now something about this law and why it should be supported. The 2005 Forest Law, as we have said, provides for the establishment of the Forest Advisory Service by forest owners, and is established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's regulation in 2006. The forest advisory service started working in 2007 when it gradually took over from the Croatian forests the work of forest owners. This takeover by the Forest Advisory Service all the jobs in the forests of forest owners prescribed by the law for decades were carried out by the Croatian Forests and companies in charge of forest management prior to its establishment. The proposal to amend the Law on Forests provides for the implementation of the tasks so far carried out by the Forest Advisory Service to be carried out by the Croatian Forests. It is important to say that the scope of the day's work in the task of the Forest Advisory Service is too high in terms of the number of employees, especially the high professional staff, and optimising their number would significantly increase the cost of the service. The existing organization and professional staff of the Croatian Forests are able to take over all the jobs done by the Forest Advisory Service so far. As we have said before, Croatian forests have done these very jobs. Jobs for which so far the Forest Advisory Service has called for public tenders, and if Croatia's forests will not be able to carry out their own capacity, e.g. competitions for the construction of forest roads, forest management programmes for forest owners will continue to take place through a public tender. We believe that the abolition of the Forest Advisory Service and the transfer of its obligations to the Croatian forest will result in a significant reduction in the cost of forest management and, given the number of professional staff and its schedule on the ground, a faster resolution of the various requirements of private forest owners. From their demands, we highlight what is most important for forest owners, which is faster to resolve the requirements for the identification of trees and the dispatch of wood products. Well, that's what the representatives of the forest owners' associations have just supported on our committee. Croatia's forests must also be stressed that they are permanently monitoring the health status of the forest and implementing the protection and prevention of the development of plant diseases and pests in the state forests, and the same jobs for forest owners were carried out by the Forest Advisory Service and will be more efficient and cheaper by unifying forest protection. The creation of a unique forest fund database and the records of works carried out will also facilitate the production of various reports, especially to international institutions, and this is also the obligation of the Republic of Croatia. Since Croatian forests are a state-owned enterprise and have all forest management infrastructure in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, there is no need for the existence of a parallel state institution that would carry out the same tasks in the forests of forest owners and increase the costs of the state budget. I'm sorry, there's something else I just wanted to say. What is important for Croatian forests and forests in general, here are fellow foresters, so that is FSC certificates that are Croatian forests, they have acquired the right to a prestigious FSC forest management certificate. By definition, for those who do not know, this means that the forest is dominated by strict ecological, social and economic standards. This act has crowned the years-long hard work of many people in this organization who have worked hard to bring this long-term process to its conclusion. This certificate is also a great honor to which international recognition is made, it is an international recognition for the management of forests, Croatian forests. And what I wanted to say in the end, the HDZ Club will support the amendment of this law. And one more thing, let us not forget that 2011 was declared the year of the forest, and that is exactly what the European Union has accepted from the Republic of Croatia. So, the Croatian profession proposed something to Europe and they adopted it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60044	Thank you. HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60045	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. In a series of today's debates that we had the opportunity to hear, we were mostly discussing the abolition of various agencies. It is really necessary to have the strength and courage to defend the impossible as a colleague has now tried to do with this legislative proposal. And I don't know if anyone exists from the profession, first of all people who know this problem don't know what they're thinking, I just don't know what they're thinking. Namely, my argument won't make it up. I will read to you colleagues and colleagues just a few sentences from the reasoning written by the Government of the Republic of Croatia when it adopted the Regulation establishing the Forest Advisory Service. That was June 2, 2006. Here's just a few things to explain. One general that needs to be repeated, obviously, because we're dealing with the wrong data. The forests in Croatia cover 2 and a half million hectares. They are made up of different eco systems including lowland, coastal and mountainous forests. About 80% of the state-owned forests, and the remaining 20% are privately owned and mainly used to produce heating wood. Private forests in Croatia Circa 500000 ha surface lords... 600,000 owners. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now let me not count on it. I'm gonna skip something. In most cases, private forest owners belong to the older population of the rural population, many do not care about their forest property or no longer have a place of residence in their forest. Young forest owners are not interested in investment and forest business. The information of private forest owners and the public about the forests of the Republic of Croatia is very bad. Educations don't exist, and the authorities' communications and the forest owners don't exist. And now one sentence that I would like to highlight specifically. By this proposal of the law, we provide the Forest Advisory Service established in 2006 in the Croatian Forests, we attach it to the Croatian Forests, to the public enterprise, to the company d.o.o. Short. And now this sentence is very interesting. The communication of the forest owners is becoming weaker and with experts, employees of the Croatian Forests who have public authority to cut down forest owners and issue accompanying documentation for... I'm undermining. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The communication of the forest owners is becoming weaker with experts, employees of the Croatian Forests. And that was why we went and why, one of the reasons. We're bringing it back in now. All of the above results in the lack of interest of the owner for his forest property and leads to further devastation of private forests and the reduction of wood supply, so now I'm skipping. Furthermore, improved forest management can increase the production of goods and services by helping to create additional jobs and incomes, as well as additional values. A finding we all agree with. And this proposal, this regulation went that way. As a result, renewable resources can be managed in a sustainable manner in line with the principles of environmental conservation, promotion which will be the main task of the Forest Advisory Service. Furthermore, the existing rules aimed at improving the management of private forests proved inconclusive because they were based on the administrative models in which we are now returning to force again, and the attitude of the legislator towards private forest owners was based on the following: The first interests of forest owners to increase wood supply and sustainable forest management on market principles, while preserving the common useful forest functions. Encourage forest owners to cooperate with forest experts, apply forest achievements and round up properties, association. The positive relations of the forest owners towards the forest will encourage the state from the funds received by the payment of the KEFŠ. So, no state budget, no taxpayer budget, but a parafiscal charge paid by the Republic of Croatia's economy, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has reduced by 25%. I'm adding this in between. That doesn't say here, cut by 20%. It's about a 100 million circus, and 100 million forest advisory services have now been given a total cake. Therefore, we return to the Croatian forests what was taken on the burden of private forest owners. It's one of the facts that stems from this bill. And now a sentence that should clarify the dilemma whether the establishment of the Forest Advisory Service was due to the legal gain of the European Union and good practice of the European Union or not. Let's get this dilemma straight, because there are various interpretations depending on who needs them. In this explanation, it literally states: "The need for the establishment of the Forest Advisory Service stems from the basic provisions of the Rural Development Support Regulation by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and now lists which are those points that I do not read. Here everyone can view it on the Internet as I have come to this material that has only confirmed my basic, basic and basic thinking about the value and need of establishing the Forest Advisory Service and one cosmetic, literally cosmetic surface, irresponsible and private forest owners directly harmful legal proposal that we are now discussing. Something quite certain to be ashamed of and waist directly from this area. We are abolishing something that we have established because functioning through the Croatian Forests and state-owned enterprises system did not work, and now we are putting it back in the Croatian forest. In 2006, the forest advisory service has been operational since 2006. In those three years 2007, 2008, the total revenue from the OCFŠ amounted to around 300 million kuna, 270 million kuna. Of those 270 million kunas, private forest owners got about 30%, 70% stayed somewhere else. There's another place left. And these people, from that time on, began to develop entrepreneurially, to develop entrepreneurship in a positive sense, to start rebuilding forest roads about 100 kilometers away, to create 108 management programs for private forest owners. I repeat 108, the 142 thousand circus and 610 hectares cover these programs, something that the Croatian forests had not done before, but was only done when this forest advisory service was established and to this, colleagues of Sumrak, was spent 13 million on intellectual services. This is what they went to, and the resources for intellectual services are being allocated from the OKFŠ, meaning not from the state budget, from the OKFŠ, from the parafiscal burden, something from which Croatian forests cover the job. Therefore, the Croatian Forests state-owned enterprises can, and the association of private forest owners cannot. 525 thousand seedlings have been planted, and not to mention further I think it's very clear, the first argument of rationalization, that this argument of rationalization is throwing sand into the eyes. The forest advisory service is financed from the parafiscal burden, only employees' salaries are financed, and the argument is taken by 13 million kunas as if it was spent on state budget money, which is not true. Which is a hoax. Definitely a prank. What's gonna happen? The following will take place, the private forest owners remain uncovered, good practice and good intention which was given by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the 2006 regulation when the Croatian Forest Advisory Service was established, and there is no longer any good intentions for us in the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired For two reasons, there is one ignorance, and the other is incompetence, because I system which is self-sustainable by false interpretations and arguments that have no foothold, we are trying to create reasons that do not stand, and with this bill we are directly conflicting with, we are also directly conflicting with the constitutional provision. In accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the forests are of interest to the state and have its special protection. Now my question is, are these constitutional categories private forest owners excluded? Apparently they are. If something that is their right we include in the Croatian forests, and four years ago we passed a regulation that we tried to make right, that injustice right. It's hard to understand with the logic of the sequence, it's extremely difficult, it's difficult to understand the logic of the profession, but the most difficult thing to understand is the logic of a private forest owner who has something, but it's not in the same position as a state-owned public enterprise. And finally, I don't think I have the need to further explain the reasons why the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired Party will not support this bill, because we have enough denials, we have enough reason for all of this in the context of the regulation that the Government founded the Croatian Forest Advisory Service in 2006 and which, among other things, was signed by the Deputy Prime Minister of the People's Press today, Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60046	Thank you. One rectification of an incorrect quote, Madam Representative Gyurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60047	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I'd like to correct the inaccuracies of colleagues, there were several of them. But this is that the forests are not of national interest and that you are now afraid by the adoption of this law that no one will take care of the forests, when here is the Croatian forest that will not be able to lead, when the Croatian forests until 3 years ago did so and it was all good, and on the board were the presidents of the forest owners' associations, and they agreed. They said it was them that were fine, and that they would support this, because they would have a closer service. And on the other hand, some things in small, medium and large, excuse the forest owners will be resolved by the new forest law that will be passed at the end of the year. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60048	Thank you. National Minority Representatives' Club, Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60049	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished secretaries with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I must say that the national minority club on the amendment of the forest law is divided, and it is likely to vote in a divided way. We are unique in what was a fundamental idea, and that any measure that should be supported for the purpose of economic recovery. Unfortunately, we are not unique when we follow the advisory service as an advisory service aimed at just one party monitoring and caring forests, it was a fundamental task of education and the making of gentlemaning to private forests. Namely, when we were, and had talked about it now, a colleague when we set up an advisory service, and precisely because of the problems on the ground that existed on one side between the national forests, i.e. the Croatian forests and private forests, has just established an advisory service as a body that will monitor the implementation of the forest law itself, but above all what was the foundation, which is the management of forests, follow all the functions that one forest economy has. On the one hand, we are really today, we are talking here about almost 22% of the forest, about 500 thousand hectares where almost 600,000 forest owners have their particles cut and it is certainly impossible from the point of view of today's Croatian forests to look at this problem. However, the advisory service in which 80 experts dealt with the problem has been very successful in solving certain problems that very small owners have. In fact, we must not forget that Croatian forests that make up almost 80% of the forest economy should have been restructured long ago. Four studies have already been made for Croatian forests. In the first of 2003, the last 2009, which, I will not enter the studies and whether they were serious or will end up as Polancec's study, but the point is that these studies stress that Croatian forests must remain within the basic business of the forest, which is the protection, management and management of forests that are national treasures estimated at almost 50 billion euros. All that is not in that function, meaning tourism, means hunting, hunting houses, on the other hand, and all those quarryes and so on, even though it is forest plants and forest materials in seedlings, will have to go from Croatian forests if we want the EU to Croatian forests and to encourage in part of the common useful functions that forests have. I am therefore surprised that what we have put on healthy feet, what worked very well in these 3.4 years, we are trying to return to the composition of the Croatian forests, i.e. now we are trying a public institution with public powers, as the advisory service has now been attached to the Croatian forests, a company that was founded for the management of state forests. It has already been mentioned here, that we will now encourage a monopoly and the question is how many state-owned companies can decide and order some measures over private ownership. Because let's not forget this is not a state institution, this is a company owned by a state that shouldn't have jurisdiction over private property, and by looking at Article 68 that says what all Croatian forests are going to do now when it comes to forest owners and the management of private forests, I think it will really incur private property, but on the other hand, we will certainly have completely different tones again because it is one thing when it was managed exclusively in the name and for their account, and another when Croatian forests are going to do so now, I say that they own a normal state. The forest advisory service was financed from the state budget, but it also used funds normally from the Generally Useful Forest Functions Fund. We said it's a load, too. The fact is that it was reduced from 0.7 to 0.525% from the company's profits, but it was an advantage that the funds intended for private forest owners were controlled by an advisory service that was not connected to the Croatian forests. The question remains why, in general, has been asked in the field before, why is this being paid, that is, to the Croatian forests? Why isn't it being paid into the state budget? Private forest owners have come to terms with this precisely because the advisory service has in some way now and controlled this spending even though at all times the question of whether they were purposely spent, how much was spent. Because the data they provided shows that much less funds were spent than was to be spent. It is therefore difficult now to accept that the advisory service is returning to a company that needs to survive a fundamental restructuring from which everything that is not strictly intended for the management and preservation of forest resources should be singled out. Hence, here is the separation within the Club of National Minorities, and I said that there will be such a vote of part for, parts against, because I think, once again, the first restructuring of the Croatian forests, and then the definition of who will do which jobs because from the Croatian forests will have to be quite isolated so that they can function at all within the functioning of the forest in the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60050	Thank you. The HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60051	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. We at the HSS Club will support the proposed forest law in question, as the government has delivered it to the parliamentary procedure. Before the very beginning, in fact more concrete debates, we would like to point out or remind ourselves of a few sentences from the introductory explanation of this law. The forests in Croatia cover 2 million hectares and about 44% of the area. They are made up of different eco-systems including lowland, coastal and mountain forests around 80% of the forest is owned by the state, and the remaining 20% are privately owned and mainly used for the production of heating wood. Private forests in Croatia, about 500 hectares of surface area, as said in the introduction, close to 600 thousand owners. The forest property is an average size of around 0.76 hectares, with an estimate of wood mass of about 80 m3 per hectare with a drop in stock trend significantly lagging behind the one in the state forests that is about 190 m3 per hectare. In most cases, private forest owners belong to the older population of the rural population. Many do not take care of their forest property or no longer have a place of residence in their forest. The younger forest owners are not interested in investment and forest business. Information from private forest owners and the public in forestry in the Republic of Croatia is very bad. Education is mostly bad and it doesn't exist, and communication between the authorities and the forest owners is bad either or it's mostly gone. The communication of the forest owners is getting weaker and with experts on this area. Therefore, the forest advisory service of 2006 was established by a regulation establishing the forest advisory service and under the forest law. The forest advisory service was established for the purpose of carrying out the work and keeping records of forests, forest owners and business activities, for the implementation of public procurement for forest management programmes, for the purpose of proposing to the Ministry of approval of forest management programmes, for participation in the design of forest fire protection and forest land and forest land and for the development of operational and annual recovery plans, biorenovation of forests and forest owners, and for the purpose of proposing guidelines for the management and monitoring of forest management programmes for forest owners, and for the implementation of forest order, for the purpose of improving forest management and forest land management. In order to rationalise jobs of more efficient work, connect within the profession and overall forest management, it is proposed to attach the forest advisory service to the Croatian forests. This merger is also the implementation of a plan for the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which provides for public administration reform and rationalisation of the existing structure of agencies, institutions and other bodies. This reorganisation will save about $11 million a year. The subject-law proposal also proposes amendments to the so far's powers of the forest advisory services to the Croatian forest, i.e. that the Croatian forests take over jobs, officials, tenants, equipment, rights and obligations, as well as the financing of the forest advisory service. We are convinced that the solutions given in this legislative proposal will contribute significantly to better and better quality forest management and, for all these reasons, we at the HSS Club will support this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60052	Thank you. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60053	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with a colleague, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDSSB club will not support this legislative proposal. We believe that this legislative proposal seriously disrupts the free labour market, goods and services in forest management, which will have negative effects on the overall economic development of the Republic of Croatia and especially in areas that are more than average covered by forests, someone has talked about 37% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia and Slavonia and Baranja even more, Gorski Kotar that we do not even speak. When they were talking about the woods here that I'm talking about forests, not about the trade society of the Croatian forest, which is significant for the economic, energy and environmental system of the Republic of Croatia, then I think that in this first segment, the economic segment comes precisely because of the reasons that I put in place so up to one negative trend in forest owners, therefore to private forest owners. Secondly, it is an energy component of Croatian forests or forests. Someone was talking about biomass and the possibilities provided by such rich forest treasure or wood treasure of the Republic of Croatia best testifies that the Republic of Croatia exports Croatian forests and total forest wealth to export about 2 million cubic metres of wood. Of those 2 cubic meters of raw materials, I'd say the logs are better said, at 85%. 10% of the semi-product say furnir and the rest and only 5% finished final product. I received information from the Association for the Development of Croatia that heat and thermal power plants and heat plants in Peču are supplied with energy with Croatian wood, good part, I do not say everything, I have no final data, but a good part. I don't know if there are such thermal power plants in Croatia, so it's no wonder, but Hungarians who are already in the European Union have already applied me to say this way of exploiting biomass in production and energy and heat through a huge thermoelectric heat plant in Pechu, for which imports of Hungarian are used, and our exports are precisely these raw materials of our Croatian forests. 22% of all forests in the Republic of Croatia are privately owned by forest owners, which she cared about in all those elements for which she had the jurisdiction of the advisory service. It must be said and pointed out as already mentioned by someone here, that Croatian forests are no longer a public enterprise, but a classically typical commercial society. By joining an advisory service to such a company, it is clear that every company as a commercial has its own interest. All those tasks and opportunities that have been determined by the provisions of the advisory service are transferred to the jurisdiction of the Croatian Forests. Is that why I say in that first segment of economics, that certain smaller companies, smaller companies that were engaged in forest management, probably will, are very likely to. And that's why the HDSSB won't support this bill. Furthermore, there are data that despite the fact that this is a classical company, the Croatian Forests, there are various arrangements from which many producers or employers are used differently not to say compensations that go on so slightly hidden and that they actually use the raw materials of Croatian forests for their jobs, I would say almost free of charge. There are such companies in the Republic of Croatia, there are such companies in Slavonia which therefore raw materials of Croatian forests use and therefore give no fee or minimum fee to the Croatian forests. Therefore, the Croatian Advisory Service for which someone claimed that 13 million kunas cost their business, the intellectual services of 13 million kunas. If you were to look at the Croatian state budget of the Government of the Republic of Croatia then you would see how many intellectual services you would single out or go by the ministries or agencies, then you would really see that, I am not defending any excessive intellectual services, but it would be given to find intellectual services that far, far above the number of employees as you said 85 million kuna. That is why the word rationalization, rationalization by abolishing certain funds, advisory services, institutions, etc. and without taking into account the serious consequences that will follow, regardless of how rationalized I am from these discussions is unsuspecting, and then keeping it as a drunk plate that this kind of rationalization doesn't make sense. It's just for these reasons that I've exposed, that it'll... and to a certain reduction in economic scope in this part, in this segment forest, wood, woodworking and others, although the woodworking industry has long been destroyed in Slavonia, especially. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are no more gelies or farmed Podravska slatina, Slatina itself, is no longer a sub-level and we don't say anything else. Spačva we know what kind of problems she's in, privatized, etc. So the introduction is or is happening by such a legal proposal, we bring in or introduce a monopolization of the market in this segment because it is done, so Croatian forests are a classical commercial society. Furthermore, how to observe such a marriage proposal. Just in light of the disruption of the free labour market, goods and services. In some ways, it is actually a nonclassical one, but in some ways a conflict of interest that has been translated into a legal proposal. For this very reason, the HDSSB cannot support and will not support this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60054	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Vlatko Podnar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60055	Thank you very much. Mr. Grubisic, I must correct an incorrect assumption. You said two million cc's of wood for export. This is not true because Croatian forests have... an annual maximum of about 5 million kuna, of which 800 thousand cubic pieces are waste and means for heating wood and for processing remains 2 million 200 and 2 million cc's of logs or wood for processing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it turns out we're going to take out the total amount of troops in total. That's not accurate. It is exported somewhere around 300 thousand cubic metres, along with a heating tree, unfortunately to Hungary, in Pec for the purposes of a wood-based thermal power plant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60056	And Mrs. Representative Gyurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60057	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I only wanted to correct the incorrect assumption that the adoption of this law would result in conflicts of interest, the monopoly of the market and so some allegations that Mr. MP had made, however, would not. We need to know that Croatian forests will take over the advisory service will operate within the Croatian forests. So she will be working on the jobs she's been working on, but of course there will be a rationalisation of jobs and related to the profession, and with the profession and with the resources needed. Well, of course, if they're highly trained in the advisory service, of course all the people who work there have to run some of the projects themselves, so they don't have to pay everything. As for the budget and those items of intellectual services and the budgets of some local environments and cities such as Zagreb, Osijek, Đakovo, intellectual services are very high budgets. So we can't just talk about the state's budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60058	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. ... A miracle. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] There's nothing you can do about it. ... That's what quantum physics says. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin, come in. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60059	Thank you, Mr. President. Croatian forests are certainly very important, I mean Croatian forests in Croatia, and of course the commercial society of the Croatian forests is also important because they care about values. Connotations of this discussion about how important forests are, what in the woods and mountains, I wouldn't mention now the possible association of what a colleague has, what pictures come into his head like this. But mentioning these two terms of the Croatian forest and the company in certain articles mentions the Croatian forest, some articles mention the company so someone who is not skilled in interpretation or understanding seems to be two different entities. It's actually about one of those same entities. That I understand that it's not working, but I'm saying that the text can be concluded, because if one article writes a company and the other one writes but I can't make a microphone and I can't turn around. So there's a problem of technical nature. So, like this if you could talk. In one, I know it's about one of those same entities, but in different articles it's called differently, so it's causing a little confusion, and I'm guessing there's no problem that in all articles it's written in the same way. That's what I wanted to say if that's what it is. At least I'm not a lawyer in technical review, so then in technical consideration, that's what it looks like. I understand the reasons, it's a good intention to rationalize business, etc. But I also think there's a possibility, I'm not saying it will be, but there's a possibility that a monopoly can bring certain things. Because now someone else is worried about my assets that so far has not been so, but because it existed as an advisory, and not as an economic company, they are economic, they are not advisory. The economic difference in this, in my opinion, is substantial because it is still a large amount of forest surfaces that are privately owned. But we also know that Croatian forests do not only rule what we physically consider to be a forest, but masters of many things that are not Croatian forests and what is a breach. I'm glad to hear from my colleague, twilight, that by the end of this year there will be amendments and additions to the forest law. ... The question is whether the plan will be fulfilled or not. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] But let's just say that the plan is fulfilled, I'm not sure how many of the provisions that are made under this law can affect or prejudge some of the things that will happen later in the Croatian Forests. And I see a few things that are very important. When we talk about Croatian forests, because we have encountered such problems we have met. So one is the story of economic recovery and reorganisation in that sense that I absolutely support, which does not mean that on that path to heaven or towards good goals we do not encounter problems that we should worry about. In addition to this possible monopoly and abuse of monopoly, there are a few things that I do not know how the law will later be able to realise, and I have spoken of this many times at committee meetings when I met this problem. For example, it remains a complete unknown to me that when the surfaces of Croatian forests are given a concession for a purpose, not a agricultural purpose, if they have a agricultural purpose, if they are given a agricultural purpose, whether those in one pocket are in another pocket of the same ownership of the state can move or are in one pocket and have the wrong purpose. Because the forest surfaces have one purpose, one task, one purpose, the agricultural surfaces have another, and the same are the properties. But it's very important not for formal reasons, but because the laws on agricultural surfaces give one possibility on these surfaces, and the forest law gives another possibility on those surfaces. So, I know that this is not the subject of this law, and what is the aim of this is simply to move the advisory service into the frameworks of the Croatian forests and the consequences that we have said that they are bringing. But I don't know how much that's going to imply in this new law that's going to be done and it's good to be done because it's going to solve a lot of things that's going to make this possible because it's going to look at commercial interests. In fact, when we talk about Croatian forests, then we always talk about the economic value of the Croatian forests that the commercial society cares about. At the same time, however, Croatian forests are not just some economic value of the Croatian forest, i.e. forest surfaces are a certain and aesthetic value, one of the visual values that we are trying to preserve because the economic benefit of this is indirectly reflected in tourism or is reflected in the quality of life of the forest we have. However, we have a lot of forest surfaces, I don't say exclusively state-owned, but they are largely owned by private persons who are in fact self-indulgent pine forests, which are zeroed on the ground which could not allow for any other quality planting and the pine tree was only almost as weeds that could emerge there. Now, at this time of understanding that the olive tree, the olive tree is the one that has a good birth in every war and the olive tree is the one that saves like some unwritten laws, as much as possible surfaces that are under pine forest that have no economic value, and even on a large part of the surface there is no visual value, aesthetic value as possible, and whether that possibility can be regulated legally and installed to turn into an olive grove. The olive tree is also there some trees, also some green surface, but of course for some time that field is bare when this pine is cut down. And by the end of the year, there really is a change and a supplement, although I think it's very fast. It's picturesque, it's picturesque. I don't catch a word about the moon, because a lot of things are what we thought would be a month or two later, so there happens a lot later in some other things not the law. It would certainly be very important to analyse this relationship of the purpose of forest surfaces, to include them in spatial planning to be seen, because much of the spatial plans do not cover some surface because they are not considered to be interesting at all. So how much of those are part of the spatial plans, what changes can be made there and what happens in the extreme case that under the Law on Forests could not be... as a building surface by seizing out for certain categories, it could also be said that on certain forest surfaces, this law can only be built on its own if it is not provided for by a specific spatial plan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I approach the problem from the point of view of the spatial planner, not from the point of view of the foresters and the use of Croatian forests, only in this sense, because the Croatian forests are also being witnessed in many parks of the nature of the forest surface can also be used through tourism and other very economically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60060	Thank you. Ms. Representative Biserka Vranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60061	Thank you very much. When we talk about the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Forests, we can conclude that, unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, if you do bad things the same way, if you do good again in the end, you end up the same. The government has made a decision to abolish all funds, agencies, all public institutions that it considers to be surpluses, or which will help to create the public impression that we have fewer institutions, that we have fewer employees, that we have fewer institutions. So, in fact, the forest advisory service that this change of law is the most damaged, is in one situation that despite good work, and despite the creation and opening of the possibility of making something of quality from this resource called the forest tomorrow, we are actually putting the same service in the same basket with agencies that may not have justified their existence and our work. In 2006 a so-called "The Forest Advisory Service" was created by Croatia. A specialised public institution aimed at improving forest management and forest land, in forest owners' forests, that means private persons. It therefore deals with organised and supervised management of private forests, as a public legal body within the meaning of Articles 1 and 2. The General Administrative Procedure Act. In addition, when such an institution was established, it was not forgotten that it was established in order to comply with European Union legislation, since the European Union has in some way established a commitment, and so on. the establishment of a forest advisory service in terms of an evenly rural... the legislation of the European Union and its acquisitions. [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]] So we have taken one step forward, but now we are taking a step back, because we are abolishing this proposal and we are still working in a way that is not in line with the European Union's gains. The establishment of the service set up a positive example and dynamic development of forest economic activity, and thus dynamiced the labour market in forestry, prompted the creation of a number of private forest management companies, the provision of services and the operation of forest work. However, as far as the funds themselves are concerned, if it is believed that abolishing this service would save a lot of money, I must also mention that the service has been financed in part from the state budget and, in part, from its own activity. The savings that would be triggered in this way would be around 10 million kunas, and on the other hand, there is no possibility for Croatian forests that even those losses that should be remedied are not rescheduled in one economic and market way, but are rescheduled in a way that the state, or government simply attaches to them something that is not theirs, and in any case not private forests. We must note that in one part of the European Commission, too, the European Commission has noted that Member States will set up a certain administrative and control system for each rural development programme by ensuring clear separation and separation of functions from other bodies. We do not do this in this case, but we are actually doing something that is actually on the one hand is also against the constitution, if the Constitution guarantees private property, and the state makes a decision, that is, the government and the resolution ministry to attach private property to a company owned by a state, then we violate the right to private property there and we actually rule over other people's property that we trust in a commercial society. It can only be done by the owners of these forests, or their legitimate representatives, and in no way can be done by the government, the ministry or anyone else. We must also say that the draft law is contrary to the General Administrative Procedure Act, because it does not define the actual jurisdiction of the public law authority in the process of exercising the right of the forestowners to a certain forest law. This proposal is also contrary to the Law on the Protection of Competition, in terms of abuse of the ruling position, because all tasks related to forest management, forest owners, as well as related financial resources, compensations and the rest are granted to Croatian forests d.o.o. I must also point out that it's working here and it's being established so-called. A single company's monopoly on all professional activities in forestry, accompanying works and service activities, and the free labour market and services in the field of forestry are phased out. The European acquis and the economy do not know the law of a single company's own monopoly on all the activities of a single branch. Instead of opening up the market and managing the state forests by European principles, we are actually going back to some area that we think we have long forgotten. If we look at the practice of what the forest advisory service actually did, it somehow revived private-owned forests, creating a sense of importance and a sense of value. Unfortunately, so far, we in local communities have had very bad experiences with the Croatian forests, which mainly destroyed all our roads, used forests to keep no one informed, nor have they done anything in any way that would be in the interest of a wider social community, but have worked exclusively in the way that it brought them or possibly did not bring profit. I will not talk about it and that the Croatian forests have often been a place where certain party alike and people who may not have been able to find work elsewhere and were also constant losers, and that no matter how many of our wooden treasures have been pulled out of the forest, that they have always, always recorded their losses and never paid them anything. If this is all the same, then I don't see anything being done successfully, and what's only at the beginning of 4 years, being attached to one such monopolies, who and just maybe still should learn how to do it and manage one resource such as the Croatian Forest, and manages and controls 37% of Croatian territory, and I think that there really should be one revision of the business of that company, and not simply attach to them another institution or institution that could do this job far better and open opportunities and private owners to be what they are. the managers of their wealth. The savings that would be done, the salaries of employees and material costs are nothing compared to the quality and values that we have cannot be compared at all. Unfortunately, all the jobs and powers of this service to the Croatian Forests are placed in a superior position with respect to all other legal entities in the Republic of Croatia, thereby seriously disrupting the labour market, goods and services in forest management, which will have negative effects on the overall economic development of the Republic of Croatia. I am aware that the government has made a decision and that no matter what you tell me or whatever arguments you have here, the government will implement that decision, however, it is very harmful for all of us in the long run. And also by joining the EU, we will have to return to the starting position which will in some ways make the situation difficult for us and limit and slow down both this growth and development and progress that we have had so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60062	Thank you. One replica, Mr. Representative Vlatko Podnar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60063	Thank you very much. My colleagues Biserka, when you talk about the state of boredom of these private, private property, or private forests under the management of Croatian forests, is also a fundamental problem in the advisory service which she has managed in these forests, and has not only advised and worked programs for the management of these forests but also managed them. Therefore, it is already part of those basic principles and the Constitution that we put under someone's jurisdiction, but it is already a problem. Another problem is that every forest owner must obey, that is, the Law on the Forests, but how will he rule? Is it from little forest owners, when I'm talking about the kid then I generally think about those who don't have a big area of forest. Will they really leave them to someone who will deal with the management of these forests, whether they are state-owned, whether they own private property, whether they themselves will determine that is their right to do so. However, the great forest owners must have something, neither Croatian forests nor advisory services can govern them, they must respect legal regulations and sublegal acts and therefore manage these forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60064	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60065	It's all true what a colleague says, but with this change of law, we're actually going back, we're not going forward, and we're still not even aware of what we should be doing. However, if we are going in the right direction and we have established an institution that will be able to do so, which will somehow educate the forest owners, which will guide them in which direction they should go to properly manage this resource, then we should continue to do so. No matter what we've made, we've decided that all the funds are being abolished. In this way we damage, we do not do good to Croatian forests, nor to Croatian forest advisory services or forest owners.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60066	Mr. Representative Niko Rebic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60067	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests is based on the reorganisation of agencies, institutions, funds and other legal persons with public authority. This proposal changes the existing forest law, the part of which the forest advisory service belongs to the Croatian forests. The Economic Recovery Programme as one of the public administration reform measures provides for the reorganisation of agencies, institutions and funds and other legal entities. Therefore, the forest advisory service was established in 2006 by the forest law in order to carry out the tasks of part of public authority and to improve forest management and forest land. Therefore, the specialised establishment is also prescribed in their jurisdiction in the Forest Law, such as the keeping of records on forests of forest owners and on the activities of carrying out public tenders for public tendering, the production of forest management programmes, the proposing of the Ministry of Authorisation of Forest Management Programmes, the participation in the design of fire protection actions, the production of operational and annual recovery plans and the biological restoration of forests, the proposal for guidelines for the management and monitoring of forest management programmes, the organisation of the implementation of forest work through licensed forest order contractors, the organisation of the procurement of forest seedlings and seeds for forest restoration and deforestation. So, this proposal changes the law after 5.6 years of work, the forest advisory service returns to 2005 when it was an integral part and a large part was carried out in the Croatian forests of its affairs. This proposal proposes the accession of forest advisory services to the Croatian forests, while the Croatian forests will take over the work of employed equipment, rights and obligations of the advisory service and the financial resources needed to carry out the work undertaken. And the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Economy will determine the number of employees required to carry out the work undertaken. If it is now, and we know that it is now in preparation for the Forests Act, so in preparation is the new Forest Act to be passed by the end of this year, then this solution can be a good attempt to streamline, which will currently meet the needs, but I believe that this solution is a transitional solution and that the adoption of the Law on Forests will solve it entirely. That's why I'm going to support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60068	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60069	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The colleagues and colleagues in this proposal of the Law on the Elimination of the Forest Advisory Service are very clear motives for those who have fought for such a bill, and it can be counted in the amount of money. In 2007, it was somewhere at 90 million kuna, 2008 about 95 million, and this year due to the reduction or halving of contributions to the general usefulness of the forest it will be somewhat less. And it is practically legalized what has been done against the law so far, for which no one has responded nor been held accountable that the money of the forestowners, hence the citizens of this country was used by law, that Croatian forests stole it from the forest owners and used it for their own purposes. The fact that the 89 million in 2007 and 95 million in 2008 were not used in accordance with the law, is not my claim but the State Audit, which in its report adopted by the Parliament, found that only 6.8% of the funds were used by purpose in accordance with the law, and the rest evaporated. That it was the same in 2008 and the ninth they can prove by reason of the data on planned revenues and the way the money was used by the Croatian Forests on my request, with the fact that a great secret remains that the Government of the Republic of Croatia had, for 7 years, a legally prescribed report on the collection and use of contributions to the general usefulness of the forest? If there was an intervention earlier, that money might have been used in accordance with the law. But since it is not obvious they understood the anarchy solved or tried to solve it in a way, so if the Croatian forests do not give money to the advisory service, let's put an end to this service, then in Croatia the jurisdiction of the Croatian Forests to transfer those jobs for which the Forest Advisory Service was established in its own time. But if you get a good read on matters transferred from the advisory service to the Croatian Forests, Article 68 of the Law, so I ask how can you suggest that a state-owned company obtain such authority over private forests? So, the word forest owner is a private owner of the forest. Now, the state-owned company, and in order to form an advisory service, was one of the main reasons why it was even set up, will be given the authority to practically rule private forests in greater scope and scope than the owner except ownership of the forest land. Everything about management, intervention, cutting, renovation, average, passages, plans is all within the jurisdiction of the Croatian forests. It's like two competitors on the market competing, one of them giving a monopoly decision to the other. Now where are the arguments for the establishment of the Forest Advisory Service gone, when we go so easily to its abolition? And how is it that if this advisory service is no longer needed, how is it that the money and the contribution introduced is not being reduced evenly to both state and private forests? We're down to 007 or 035 or 040 as much as we are now. This was now an ideal position to reduce it to 02.015. when the obligations of business entities are at stake, and we allow Croatian forests and we legalise the practice of actually spending the entire mass of funds on their own. And believe it or not, on the basis of this contribution in 2007, 338 million were charged, 2008. 510 million, 2009. 360 million. So it's not about the little money, it's about the big money. If the order could not be done, if it was not known by law to use that money, and I think about 22% of forest land is privately owned, why now do you think that Croatian forests would be better managed by such money, fairer, in accordance with the law and in favour of forest owners. Interestingly, these allegations are that forest owners' associations are satisfied with this bill. There are obviously more in Croatia. Because I was approached by one of these associations that indicated that they did not accept such a solution or that within a few days, 3, 4 of them were founded as they usually do when it comes to supporting something or someone. And yet it is possible that again my questions about how to use this money directly related to the rights of the forestowners, their rights to the money that has been raised by law, which has not been given in their favor and in their function, have been left unresponsive throughout that time. What is the result of the analysis of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and tell me can you give me at least three names of experts, experts of citizens of the Republic of Croatia whose opinion the Government requested before such a bill without being directors in the Croatian Forests? Do you have three expert opinions that such a proposal is good from people who are not directors in the Croatian Forests? If you do not have such an opinion, then tell me who are these people who have given such an assessment, an assessment, an analysis, a view that the Forest Advisory Service in Croatia is not needed and what arguments have justified the fact that state monopolies are empowered to manage or plan control of private property such as private forests? Without answering those questions, of course I won't support this bill, but I'm going to ask you to remember there won't be any results you've been mentioning all along. The only thing you did, that you allowed the Croatian forests to legally put that money in their register, is nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60070	Thank you. One correction, Madam Representative Gyurjka Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60071	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Lesar like this, there are several incorrect allegations. It's one thing, but you're doing it on purpose, saying it's being abolished. Nothing is lifted but attached, and that's an important difference. When you cut something then it's gone, and when there's something you can attach it to, it exists. Another false allegation is that there will be no quick resolution. Yes, it will be, because I told you that the Croatian forests are three-layered, there are 16 managements of the forests of the branches and 171 forests, so they are as you say the associations, and that was the representative of the Croatian Association of Private Forest Owners. Something which is an alliance consists of several associations, and this was their president and he said he supported this because he believes that much faster will solve the things that matter to them, and those that matter to them are precisely on the request for the supply of the tree and the dispatch of wood products. Well, then, you've got the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60072	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60073	Thank you very much. Comrade Lesar, when you talk about the financing of general forest functions and the control of these funds. Unfortunately, since the 1990s, we have not yet been able to make it a fund, whether it was an agency, whether it was anything, whether it was the Ministry responsible for the affairs of forestry, that these funds were collected there, and that payment was made at the expense of Croatian forests, was at the expense of private forest owners through situated, executed and situated works. What is also forgotten here in the debate itself to say and speak, which is that the amendments to Article 30 abolish the concept of the scope of the necessary evidence. No one will ever do it again, or anyone will ever approve of it again. He stays in the law, but you don't have anyone who approves him. Therefore, private forest owners, those who do not have a Forest Management Programme, will not be able to cut down wood for their own purposes. That's how it works out according to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60074	Madam Representative Mirela Holly, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60075	Thank you, Your Honor. At the very beginning of the presentation, I would like to say that according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia the forests are of interest to the state and have its special protection. The Constitution does not say anywhere that state forests are of state interest and that only state forests have special protection of the state. However, according to the content of the law we are discussing today, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia seems to apply only to state-owned forests, i.e. private forests do not have special protection for the state. That is why this law is anti-constitutional and there is a serious concern that it will fall in the Constitutional Court. I therefore call on the ruling majority's deputies and deputies to avoid another set of debacles related to the anti-constitutional laws which are strongly prone to HDZ and partners in this term and do not vote for this harmful law. Although you could already understand from my introduction, at the beginning of the presentation, I would like to say that I will not support this bill because I believe that this law is controversial for a whole series of reasons, which, among other things, we have been warned by members of the Croatian Association of Private Forest Owners and about which colleagues and colleagues have already said a lot. These are the inconsistencies of this bill with the acquis of the European Union and doubting the constitutionality of this bill by violating the provisions on the availability of private ownership and equal competition. This bill of law is sold to us on the basis of the rationalisation of the state administration and save money from the state budget, and this is planned to be achieved by abolishing the Forest Advisory Service whose tasks and powers would be attached to the state forest company, giant Croatian forests. All this would be wonderful and wonderful if Croatian forests were not thus placed in an incredibly favoured position compared to private forest owners who will no longer be able to dispose of their property by this law de facto. In Croatia, private forests occupy some 22% of forest areas and money from public service fees, according to the Law on Forests, should be distributed proportionately to the share of land, but it is hardly spent to improve the situation in private forests. Reportedly, only between 10 million and 30 million kunas are spent each year to improve the management of private forests. This is extremely worrying because it raises the question of where around 200 million kunas have ended in the last three years that should have been spent to improve the situation in private forests. Now that the powers and tasks of the Forest Advisory Service will be taken over by the Croatian Forests, which, I stress, are a direct competitor to private forest owners, the situation will worsen further. As it is also possible that a public institution with public authority in private forests may be attached to a commercial company established for the management of state forests in a legally regulated country which wants to enter a European country club. Which is why such a publicly useful institution is being abolished. The motion for the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the RES has not given us any answers to these questions. The state's unfair and unbalanced attitude towards private forests has been seen for years also in relation to the State's forest advisory service that has been systematically marginalised by the ruling elites. Although the coalition agreement agreed to strengthen the role of this service, it was not implemented but was done literally the opposite which finally led to the abolition of this service, which is proposed of course by this law. The service was never fully or fully formed, and is now being abolished even though private forest owners felt that the establishment of one of these services was one of the best moves in the forestry of the Republic of Croatia in the past 20 years. In fact, the establishment of this service has started to develop entrepreneurship in a positive sense of the word, the wood market in private forests as well as the forest and forest land market has emerged. Private owners received some money to improve forests owned by them, started with the restoration of forest roads, a hundred management programs for private forests were created, more than half a million seedlings were planted, and associations of forest owners and associations were established. Once again, I appeal to the ruling majority's MPs and deputies not to support the adoption of this law since I am convinced that in the Constitutional Court and this law will be abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60076	Correction of an incorrect allegation, Madam Representative Gjurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60077	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Holly. You know exactly what harmonisation means for legislation. At least you know that well. Well, setting up, i.e. advisory, forest advisory services is certainly not a alignment with European legislation. And those EC that's... Don't say it by heart, don't talk about having to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you don't have to. And this whole law of course has no question at all... with the Constitution and that the constitutionality of this law is being questioned at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's a fellow forester from your party and he's certainly proud of his profession, but also of the Croatian forests that have tradition of 300 years that preserved all this forest treasure here with us. And the woods and the forest land and the debris and everything else. And those 5 million tons of oxygen we get from us, so it's not because the state and any government that wasn't taking care of it, but because it took care of it because it believes that the forests in Croatia are very important. It's a national treasure and nobody's going to let themselves absolutely do anything against it constitutionally. And that's all I wanted to say. Namely, the general surface that is above the forests. There's a little cartoon, a colleague knows, and now he's gonna help me. A few years ago, experts from Norway came in. to learn something about forests. [[Thank you. Thank you.]] However, they left us and saw that they had nothing to teach us in the profession because they saw that our forests were in reality in genius.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60078	Okay. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60079	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. Here's another emergency rationalizing law. So, the second law today that is abolished or attached to something. Because of the only explanation in the assessment of the state of rationalization. Here is another law, which does not have an assessment of the situation in the sense that the reasons for or against such a legal solution are being proved and that will have consequences for the overall system. Not wanting to praise the forest advisory service, but still it was a mechanism that guaranteed a certain degree of independence for small forest owners and provided them with one, hoping that the development of the Forest Advisory Service might improve and improve their position. This is how this law of the Forest Advisory Service, if it is not already abolished, then belongs to a company that actually creates a monopolies without precedent that has a direct effect on the position of small forest owners. Today we also heard that Croatian forests d.o.o. which are a propos and involved in a number of scandals related to their senior officials or officials is also linked to the business of the Fimi Media, which is why he was arrested. Then there is the controversy related to the national inventory of the forest resources of the Republic of Croatia signed by Minister Pankretic and which differs significantly in the cubes of the annual visited cubes of wood compared to what Croatian forests claim, which therefore puts into question some two million cc's of wood that is not known to exist or not, and this is slightly controversial. And just these Croatian forests we heard today have this... a certificate or PSC certificate which has some very important requirements related to forest management. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] I would personally be much more impressed with the ISO 14000 environmental management certificate. But unfortunately Croatian forests that certificate as far as I know do not have or are not praised by it on their home page. However, this FSC certificate has been applied to large systems, large conglomerations and is not, does not protect the interests of small forest owners as it does for example... or PFC certificate. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] Why, for example, the Croatian forests are not certified according to this certification scheme and let us see their good will to protect and improve the small forest owners. There's nothing incompatible about having a certificate and a half of two schemes. By doing so, they would therefore cover their area of action with more than 22% of the forest in the Republic of Croatia is privately owned. However, this solution, which we will obviously accept today thanks to the parliamentary majority, poses some problems related to this FSC certificate, e.g. point 3.1, the request 3.1 says that the population only trusts the masters or controls with its own free will to other agencies. Now somebody tell me what free will the small forest owners of forest advisory services have transferred to a company that actually restricts their private property. Then, point 5.1 speaks of economic sustainability and accountability, Croatia's forests will surely have to answer this issue before the recertification, whether they are controversial or not, whether they exist or not, from where this disrepancy from the report signed by Bozidar Pankretic, and data, official data from the Croatian Forests. Then there is the requirement of standard 5.3 FSC standard, demand 5.3 minimisation of urinary waste. So just look at at least in some parts of what it looks like when Croatian forests spend their cutting, they absolutely do not respect private property because the logs are drawn over private plots and not only forest private parcels and oranics, causing the erosion of fertile soil, and even in rainy weather, so that huge furrows are created, so that the local population is unable to seek protection even the parliamentary representatives to repair the situation. And that blade and the disaster that remains after the extraction of that tree, it is in no way in line with the requirements of 5.3 of the FSC norm. And to conclude, this kind of solution is not a good solution for public perception of how something is done to rationalise these agencies and para-state institutions, it would be better if the forest advisory service improved, restructured and did its job to preserve and improve the interests of small forest owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60080	Thank you. Final review, Secretary of State Herman Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60081	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs. Here I would at the end of today very long discussion thank all of you who took part in your discussion. There have also been many things heard, and some of them here we have seen that there are clearly other sides to support such a bill. What I can say is that I personally am not a pessimist in further work and help in the management of private forest owners. However, I think this way will work even faster and better and more successfully than it has ever been. I can say that the forest advisory service launched a lot of good and quality things in 2006, we did not have a common operation or funding anywhere in 2005, so I'd better say, works in private forests, which is why there was not much work in them. After that, it went to a pretty good job. However, now it needs to be intensified, and this is about spending funds and everything else, I can only say that this part that belongs to private forests is being spent according to management programmes. It is little and mentioned today on several occasions that so far there are 142 thousand hectares of the means of management in private forests, of 581 thousand as many as there are in the Republic of Croatia. And yet there is yet yet to be accelerated to reach these 581 thousand hectares, so it is arranged by programs to see with private forest owners what will be done in one of the best and most qualitative ways and then clearly that there will be far more money to be spent functionally in these properties. I can only say that as regards the very article of the Constitution 52 that forests and forest land, meaning all forests and forest land, both state and private are of interest to the Republic of Croatia, and have its protection. And these proposed amendments to the Forest Act do not affect any private property, nor do anyone take away his right of ownership. So everything that's done is done in cooperation with private forest owners and no one on it can enter the property alone without simply negotiating and seeing what's going to be done. The advisory service as it is now formed, so it moves into Croatian forests and there will be a special service, otherwise in the Croatian forests, someone knows, someone doesn't know, they have services of some kind, I don't know how to edit other things, so in that part of the special service will be formed, people will continue their work, as far as the forest owners are concerned, and I think that it will all be of interest to all together, and especially the real and small ones of these forest owners who have been satisfied so far, and I think that here with the last agreements and when little further happens to them, that there is no one special, that I don't say dissatisfaction or resistance, people just want to further invest in their forests. Okay, that's it. There's been a lot of other stuff. I think about the monopoly and I wouldn't do it today, I think I can answer it, but I'm saying that Croatian forests have a function that, not only work with their working potential, but a lot of jobs are placed on the market, there are a lot of co-operatives and private entrepreneurs related to Croatian forests, and this clearly does not reduce any, or increase the monopoly of Croatian forests, but that a good part of these works will continue, and I'm talking about up to 580 thousand hectares still need to be done on the market. And I personally don't care about these, a few of these companies that are formed, that deal with these forest jobs, they'll have enough work to do, to function normally, and to expand their business. Here's another thank you for the discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60082	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60083	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Forests, the emergency procedure was P.Z. No. 602 is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposer's representative adopted amendments to the Legislative Committee and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I therefore put to the vote the final draft law amending the forest law together with the amendments adopted. You're welcome to turn yourself in and vote. Score. The law was passed by a majority of votes, 74 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 36 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60084	We're moving on to the next point. Another one tonight - - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on State Measurement and Cataster Real estate, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 604 The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Construction. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Protection, the environment, spatial planning and construction Davor Mrduljas will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60085	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Here is a proposal for a Law on State Measurement and a Cataster of Realty. In accordance with the government's conclusion of the session held on 23 July 2010, which adopts the proposal to reorganise agencies, institutions, funds and other legal entities with public authority, it is proposed to join the State Geodetic Institute to the State Geodetic Authority. In accordance with this programme of the reorganisation of agencies and reorganisation measures, they include 2 phases: the abolition of agencies and institutions and the accession of central authorities of the state administration, i.e. the accession of several legal entities into one legal person and the implementation of the reorganisation through 2 phases. The first phase is to propose, abolish and merge legal persons with public powers which are not affected by the fulfilment of obligations undertaken by the Republic of Croatia during the EU accession negotiations. And in the second phase, following the technical consultations and the coordination of positions with the European Commission, further reorganisation of other agencies and legal persons with public powers as the Institute is related to rationalisation will be proposed. It should be said that no European country has such an institute in the area of geodesy. It was founded in 1999 at a time when we thought it was in view of the state of geodetic profession that prevailed because it was still in force in 1974, so it was '99. the year adopted for the first time in an independent, independent Croatian State Measurement Act and a real estate cataster that regulated relations in the geodetic profession, regulated the issue of catastra, state measurements and all the jobs done by the geodetic administration. It is now one, we can say, a solid state-run administrative organization set up at the highest levels of professional activity and the de facto institute in one way and performed its function that was intended for him in the late 1990s. Lately, he has been running errands according to a 5-year programme for the needs of the State Geodetic Authority. These jobs are closed and there is no reason why all these jobs would not be done in the State Geodetic Authority itself in the future. The more the State Geodetic Administration is the new Law on State Measurement and Real Estates, that is, this law, which now nominates certain jobs on the creation of national infrastructures of business data on which most people who move to the State Geodetic Authority from the Institute, which are qualified people for the job, will continue to work on the business of national business infrastructures of business data. This job is very important to us and we need to finish it somewhere by the end of 2012, early 2013. The law therefore repeals the Institute, regulates the accession, lays down the tasks carried out in the State Geodesy Administration and regulates the issue of internal general acts of the State Geodesy Administration, namely the adoption of a new regulation concerning the accession of the State Geodesy Administration and the status of officials in that institution. Here's what would be in the shortest lines. I hope that you will accept this bill so that as soon as possible, that is, the State Geodetic Authority can make an addition, amend its Internal Design Regulation and continue to work on the following tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60086	Thank you. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Legislative Committee? I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60087	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the proposal of the Law amending the Law on State Measurement and the Real Estate Cataster with the final draft of the law. The proposed amendment of the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates is a function of further implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme of the Republic of Croatia on the one hand, and a proposal for the reorganisation of agencies, institutes, funds and other legal entities with public authority defined by the Government in July of this year. In fact, the economic recovery programme itself as one of the public administration reform measures is a rationalisation of individual institutions, agencies and other regulatory bodies, which is a reorganisation as Mr. Secretary of State has said in phase 2, right. In the first phase, 14 existing regulatory bodies would be involved, i.e. they would be associated with other authorities of the state administration and other authorities of the state administration and, thus, from 14 agencies, institutions, funds and other legal entities with public authority, 3 legal entities would practically function. And in the second round, as the secretary of state said, those regulatory bodies that are also not necessary in the course of the negotiations would be defined in technical consultations with the European Commission, and later clearly in the functioning of the Republic of Croatia as one of the EU members. What also seems important to me to mention is that a decision has been taken at last week's meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia setting out unique criteria that must be met by individual agencies, funds, institutions or other regulatory bodies in order to be able to transfer to those bodies that could possibly be established in the future to deal with operations carried out today by central government authorities. Therefore, 4 criteria have been established which must be cumulatively met by individual agencies, institutions and institutes so that, in the future, if the government decided to transfer certain public powers to those bodies that are now central government bodies so that they can function at all. I think that both in this segment and in this proposed amendment to the law, these are also the criteria, although the amendments to the law itself came before the government sent this law into procedure, but that the abolition of the Croatian Geodetic Institute was precisely on the trail of those measures that the government adopted at last week's session. Therefore, there are 4 criteria that should be met by the new regulatory body. And this is the first and important criterion is that the established body is engaged exclusively and established for the sole purpose of performing public-interest operations, that it is as the sole founder of the Republic of Croatia, and that, in this procedure, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has found its founding rights in that body, that most of the resources for the work of that body are realised either from the state budget or by public authority and the 4th essential criterion for certain operations in that new body can be carried out more effectively, meaningfully, more economically than would be carried out by the central state authority. If the project were to be reviewed on the proposal of this law, they would see that the State Geodetic Authority as a central state body performing the tasks of geodetic measurement and cataster of real estate is precisely the body which, in such a situation, can effectively do business without the Croatian Geodetic Institute and which, to date, has been carried out by the Croatian Geodetic Institute. In his introduction, the State Secretary himself said that the Croatian Geodetic Institute was created and emerged from the Law on State Measurement and the Cataster of Real Estate, which was adopted in 1999, but the Institute itself began its work only in 2001. And exactly what is to be said is that at that time when the law itself was passed, the State Geodetic Authority was based on the law that was passed in 1999, it had certain priorities, and these priorities were primarily related to the reform of the real estate and land books. And the grotesque jobs of the State Geodesy Administration were aimed precisely at reforming the real estate cadastre or by crossing from the land cadastre to the real estate cadastre. And in a certain way, as it was focused on that part of the job, the state measurements by law of 1999 were set up as an independent body that would deal with certain segments of business that were really in the system and within the affairs of the State Geodetic Authority but wanted the State Geodetic Administration to be disbursed and that these quality control tasks of geodetic businesses and geodetic services operated by private companies in Croatia could be controlled and controlled, without being as I said in the focus of the basic work of the State Geodetic Administration. And in the nine years that the Croatian Geodetic Institute has worked, I think it has really won a good success, especially in the section relating to geoinformatics and other jobs that we can subscribe to scientific tasks in the geodetic profession or highly professional geodetics. I think that in that part of the past nine years, indeed the Croatian Geodetic Institute has fulfilled its purpose, fulfilled its reason for which it was founded and I know that many geodetics who have worked in the institute and around the institute have made clear the work of such an institute because in a certain way it has gained the impression that the Croatian Geodetic Institute as an independent body, although it is questionable how it can be called an independent body when it was founded by the Government and when representatives of the relevant ministries sit on its board. However, there was the impression that he could independently monitor the quality of the geodetic product produced by the geodetic company as a rule by a private geodetic company and thus practically the State Geodetic Administration as the largest contractor of works in the Republic of Croatia should not monitor the quality of business and product provided by a particular private company in the Republic of Croatia. However, after having made major shifts in the course of the implementation of the State Geodetic Measurements throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia over the past 10 years, after the quality of the Croatian geodetic system and the reform of the Office of the State Geodetic Authority has been carried out in this legal part of the territory of the county or through their facilities, it seems to me today that there is no reason why this law practically does not unite the jobs that the Croatian Geodetic Institute has done so far, that they do not unite and re-emerge under the cap of the State Geodetic Authority. On this trail, Mr. Secretary also said that practically in Europe, which I hope will soon come to is not a institute like this but as a rule of the State Geodetic Administration as central bodies, these jobs continued to do or did not have that interruption as it had in the Republic of Croatia of the State Geodetic Administration when this institute was created. Therefore, while respecting the clear quality of the jobs performed by the Croatian Geodetic Institute, its independence is defined in the assessment of the quality of geodetic jobs and geodetic services provided by geodetic companies in Croatia in the first place and the highest state geodetic administration and we at the HDZ club support it. And on the trail of this all that I have just said before, the proposal to amend the Law on State Measurement and the Catastrophe of Real Estate and that these jobs, such as from 1999 to 2001, may be re-implemented by the State Geodetic Administrations. But what I would certainly like to propose to the Government, the State Geodetic Authority, is that when these jobs are taken after this law is passed, and I hope that this law will be re-adopted, they will be returned to the coverage of the State Geodetic Administration to establish a sector that could be independent in the part of the implementation and carrying out of these works by the Croatian Chamber of Engineers in Geodetics so far, within the framework of the State Geodetic Administration itself. Namely, and now what may not be written in the light of this law and now the State Geodetic Authority, although there is a Croatian Geodetic Institute, however, in the section relating to the state measure and to the construction of cadastrian elaborates and all that is done for the needs of the cadastras in Croatia, the control of these services and these jobs is carried out by the State Geodetic Administrations. Therefore, this job has never entirely come out of the State Geodetics Authority except in the section that applies primarily to geoinformatics. Therefore, it would be good if these jobs were to return fully to the coverage of the State Geodetic Administration eventually to consider setting up a specific sector which could be high quality and not be within the framework of the two existing sectors that are in the State Geodetic Administrations. Here, I believe that this bill is well designed, that it is practically on the trail of the acquis to which we are seeking and which we are implementing during the process of harmonising Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union. I think that this law should be supported and I think it will support it, and what is least important is the geodetic profession in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60088	Thank you. SDP club, Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60089	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning of the exhibition, I would like to say that the SDP club will not support the adoption of amendments to the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates, which the Government proposes to the Parliament to abolish and the Croatian Geodetic Institute, one of the 14 administrative organisations that the Government abolishes under the exception of saving and rationalising the state administration. At the very beginning, I would like to stress that the Croatian Geodetic Institute, which is abolished by the implementation of the government's plan for the alleged rationalisation of the administration and the savings of taxpayers' money. What are we pointing that out for? Because this government is headed today by former Prime Minister Sanader, and a recently great leader who has been called with enthusiasm from all of HDZ's throats, or is headed by the government by the current prime minister, Mrs Kosor, and the recent right-hand minister, allegedly uncompromisingly favours Croatia as a country of knowledge, and it is precisely the fundamental function of the institute to be the waste of knowledge and the place of concrete application of academic knowledge. It is sad that the government did not consider it unusual that in a country of knowledge, a country with huge problems in the cataster, a geodetic profession does not have its own institute that deals with development, science and professional work. There is also no word on the savings of taxpayers' money by abolishing this institute because a lot of money has been invested in the Croatian Geodetic Institute, not only from the state budget but from international agreements and donations, so the abolition of this institute is among other things an international debacle. Since 2001, when the Institute began its work, the Kingdom of Norway has invested considerable resources to build the capacity of the Croatian Geodetic Institute as an important factor in the process of producing national geodata. Easier said, the role of the institute is to carry out independent controls on the quality of geodetic products, e.g. cards made by private geodetic companies. In the SDP club, we are interested in how the Government and the Parliament will explain to Norway why it abolished what Norway has invested millions of euros in seeking to help Croatia in introducing the still ruling chaos in the state measurement and catastra sector. We remind you that 27 highly educated experts and experts, doctors of science, magistrates, graduate engineers who have published an exceptional number of scientific and professional works in the past 10 years, a whole series of professional and geodetic works of interest for the state, that the Institute keeps a record of geographical names and a lot more. One of the most interesting projects is the project to establish a system for the identification of LPIC land particles in the Republic of Croatia that has brought, if absurd, the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This project is important because of Croatia's accession to the European Union. In its national programme, the Government recognises the Institute as an important factor in the way of harmonisation with the European Union directives, but suddenly, from the second half of July, it notes that the Institute is no longer needed. I guess because Croatia is one of the members of the European Union today. In the proposal for the reorganisation of agencies, institutions, funds and other legal entities with public authority, the Government also lists business overlaps, but there are no overlaps between the Institute and the State Geodetic Authority, and no one else in the Republic of Croatia has performed any activity. In accordance with the still applicable Law on State Measurement and Real Estate Catastrophe, the Croatian Geodetic Institute is carrying out professional, research and development activities of the State Measurement and Real Estate Catastras for the State Geodetic Authority, that is, Article 132. This law plans the accession of the Institute to the State Geodetic Authority not in a way that people from the Institute continue to do their jobs in a new unit within the State Geodetic Administration as a Development Department, but simply to throw them into free official jobs that need the approval of the Ministry of Administration again. We remind ourselves that the fundamental concept and vision of the institute was to make this institute permanent, not a temporary institution, and how the government is now trying to undermine itself because only in this way is the development and cumulation of knowledge, skills, development and creation of added values within the geodetic profession. The idea was also to work with the help of the institute to regulate and promote the profession at national level, with the distinction of legal-administrative from professional-specialist affairs which are of interest to the national geodetic space i.e. the state, in order to create a balance between the public and private sectors in terms of performing specialist and development jobs that are not always profitable at first, although they are necessary and long-term profitable in terms of public or general interest. In other words, the Institute deals with matters that cannot or should not be entrusted to the private sector by nature, except in the case of the most radical neoliberalism. In the past 10 years of its existence, the Institute has therefore become a kind of core of professional and high professional excellence, which is not burdened with the sakes of the Czech interests and interests of profits and capital from the private sector and acts cumulatively in the interest of public or general good for the sake of structure and geodesy in the national frameworks. As a result, an absolutely incorrect claim made by the Ravants of the State Geodetic Administration, which at the meeting of the parent committee on spatial planning and construction, explained that the Institute was established temporarily until some important business was done. In the SDP, we stress that all the staff of the institute signed work contracts indefinitely, which means that the institute was planned to last as an institution. It is also inconclusive that the director of the administration's claim that the direct financial savings of this accession will be approximately half a million kuna, while indirect savings will be much more. In the SDP club, we are absolutely unclear where this figure was drawn from, as all employees at the institute will continue to be employed by the state administration, and the costs of moving staff to the management will certainly cost and will not accumulate money as claimed. The exact opposite of the director's claims, indirect damage will be much greater because part of the business will be transferred to the private sector, which means the outflow of 10 million kuna from the budget annually. But who knows, it may just be the passing of state money into private pockets, the pockets of entrepreneurs and owners of companies close to the ruling HDZ that are essentially the real intention of this allegedly thriftful and rationalizing law. This is what many who are well-versed in this segment of the market are talking about, and among those who will surely profit from the adoption of this law, particularly the owner of a private company that has so far been a major favorite of the ruling HDZ elite. Who is it and what companies are dealing with is easy to find out who is asking for information with which the geodetic company the Croatian state has done the most business in the last 7 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60090	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric on behalf of the HNS club, HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60091	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party club, the Croatian pensioners' parties, is for the rationalisation of public administration, it is massive, it is expensive and it is often ineffective. We are for this reason to make it more professional and effective on the well-being of our citizens. So we're for a modern public administration, but colleagues and colleagues, I don't think we're doing well today. My colleague Holly said a great deal of what I was going to say, so I'm going to cut my exposure considerably. When it comes to rationalization, then I guess Croatian citizens' representatives have the right to know at least some minimum data, arguments based on which we will explain to our citizens why we raised our hand for or against some legal proposal. Let me read to you from this bill only two sentences. A balance assessment, so that grade that gives us the right to go into some kind of reorganisation. And did you read that score? One single sentence of four refers to the assessment of the situation and it reads: "Croatian Geodetic Institute is a legal person with legal powers that belongs to the State Geodetic Authority according to that reorganisation." Nothing more. Based on those sentences, I'd have to know whether to move or not. I thank my colleague Bačić, now he's gone he's given us a series of data. I also thank my colleague Holly for bringing a series of data, but that's not their job. I guess it's the proposal's job to explain why we're moving into a certain reorganisation, reform, change, change or whatever you want. Then the consequences that the amendments to the law will bring. My colleagues and colleagues, one single sentence. Is this a correct relationship with us fellow MPs? Is that the relationship and way of communication between the government and the highest representative body? I repeat our club is for change and we are for savings, we are for improving expertise and service levels but not in this way. For years, we've been warning that we're forming too many institutes, agencies, funds and whatever. Now all of a sudden, in eight days, we're gonna end everything and we're gonna organize everything in a very different way. I think it's really unacceptable and really unserious. If we claim that this reorganisation will be better, then it was logical to hear what was wrong with the work of the Croatian Geodetic Institute. I don't know what's wrong and why we're suddenly shutting them down and putting 27 people together if I've remembered well now to the State Geodetic Authority. I heard from colleagues Bačić that he intends to form a sector there, a new sector where these people will work and be employed. So, I find that during the debate. Is it really something or is this way of working acceptable to you colleagues and colleagues? I hope not, I really hope not. I don't call you left or right here. I'm looking at it as a representative of whether or not we can do it this way. The secretary of state did say something more in the opening statement than it says here. But he said it himself in the shortest lines. I think he'd have the right in the shortest lines to tell this story, to have a whole story on paper. But we don't have it. Then he has no right in the shortest lines to tell us what he wants to achieve, etc. I colleagues and colleagues, reading these laws because I am in charge of the club by three laws, I don't know how many employees are going to be doing these jobs. Three, four, five? Are we going to cut public administration through these dozen laws, the state administration by not knowing a dozen, 20, 50, 150 people? My colleagues and colleagues, how much are we going to save? What's the savings? Have you ever heard of a number today? Are we going to save 50, 150, 2, 7, 8 million kuna? Furthermore, it would be logical to be told if we were to save so much and if it was a reorganisation of what we would invest them in, what would we invest in? Is it really going to be an economy that goes through some of these laws and mentions, etc. as part of the recovery of an economic blood count that is what it is. But I didn't hear anything about it today. Are we going to take advantage of this opportunity for colleagues and colleagues to return to human resources, because this is an opportunity for those who are skilled and able to advance, set up and position themselves so that they will conduct certain tasks, and for those who have not been for the work they have done, who have come in these jobs to know in which way, through tribal, through party, through friendly and other relations. This is an opportunity! In organized countries, reorganisations are also used to professionally strengthen these and such bodies that we are talking about today. I didn't hear anything about it! This is an opportunity. So, I repeat, colleagues and colleagues, every serious man will not and cannot afford to discuss a law like this without those elements. That's why I won't be here, and I don't have the right in front of my club to say whether or not any of the members of our club will support this law. I'm really not gonna say that. Let them decide for themselves. I must say that I am absolutely disappointed in this way of working and that I do not accept that this is how it is done in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60092	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60093	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of counterpart Doric, who said that counterpart Bacic said that a new sector would be formed in the State Geodetic Administration, which would take over the functions of the Croatian Geodetic Institute. counterpart Bacic said he hopes the sector will be formed. So, even this is not certain and it is essentially a shameful situation that we MPs by who knows which time we have not received an overexplained explanation and assessment of what some law achieves and what its final results will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60094	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's gone. And Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60095	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, in these late afternoon hours, another institute or state organization falls as a victim of rationalization and hope for economic recovery. Yes, in point 4 of the reasoning of the draft law by emergency procedure, it states that according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the adoption of this law is proposed as one of the measures laid down in the Economic Recovery Programme is implemented. So now I would really like to know the quantified indicators of the impact on the economic recovery and growth of the GDP in the Republic of Croatia will have this institute when it joins the state geodetic administration. As we left today, we could now in these late hours away from the eyes of the public, for example, attach Ruđer Bošković Institute to the Ministry of Science, so we would probably contribute to the economic recovery and rationalisation of the state administration in the Republic of Croatia. This is by who knows which times we have a law that doesn't have any projections, an analysis of the cost of benefits we get, which is lost. The State Geodetic Institute has an activity to participate in the planning and implementation of basic geodetic works, perform development research projects, control the quality of collection and processing of spatial data and the production of products of state geodetic administrations, support the establishment of a database of state geodetic administrations, organise and maintain the registration of geographical names as immaterial cultural heritage, why it also entered the database in which Croatia is the only country not a member of the European Union through the State Geodetic Institute. The State Geodetic Institute is working to standardise and standardise geodetic works and procedures. So we can say that he is carrying out professional scientific tasks that are extremely important for the normal functioning and economic growth of the Republic of Croatia, because today we can also refer to Mr Van Doren, who said that there are no foreign investments in Croatia and because of obstruction, and he has also apostrophe of an unsettled cadastre that contributes to the legal uncertainty of investors and citizens. Let us also remember the situation of Racan's coalition government, when the Ministry of Science awarded several dozen scholarships to geodesties from Bosnia and Herzegovina because Croatian citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina felt either insecure, legally insecure, since there is a lack of geodetics of Croatian nationality in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, there was not enough response back then, but it shows one of the utmost importance of this profession to society and economy as a whole. Without the catastrophe, there is no well-run garland, and then the whole economy suffers. It's a notorious fact. The State Geodetic Institute provided independence to the state geodetic administration and, if seen, both of them were surprised by this legal solution, because they had both different development plans related to space management. Dear colleagues and colleagues, related to the management of the first institute in the Republic of Croatia, who fell as a victim of conversion and privatisation, was the urban institute of the Republic of Croatia, which took care of the management of space in the Republic of Croatia in a holistic system way. We don't have such institutions today, the space is cared for by architects, and the catastra, the activity of the geodetic institute and the state geodetic administration is what needs to be an initial step for the management of space, as it is appropriate for developed democratic states, which we unfortunately are not, here today and in the Morning List I look at those mockery of architectural solutions. So who can even imagine, let alone in the rule of law. Instead of going to develop the system further, we, because of a few thousand kunas, how much the administrations probably cost, the fees to the board of directors of the Geodetic Institute, are going to do an unsecured merger, and if that hadn't even been considered, it hasn't been prepared. The state geodetic administration did not express itself, nor was it ordered to set up a separate sector that would then be accepted by this poor geodetic institute. Knowing the dignified, smart, good, important work of the State Geodetic Administration, I believe it will all end well, but not because the government knows what it is doing and what it is doing systematically, but because there are reasonable people in this field who take care of the progress of the profession in the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60096	Thank you. One correction, one replica. Correction, Ms. Representative, Ms. Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60097	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, there's a number of incorrect allegations with Representative Franic, so I can start from behind, from what he said the government doesn't know what it's doing, but fortunately we have science. We have science and the government knows what it's doing. If Mr Franic has read well everything about it then he will know that Croatia has taken over the EU accession process a proposal to reorganise the agency, institutes, funds and other legal persons with public authority. This is about the economic recovery programme, but part of that programme is a measure, and that one measure applies here to the reform of the public administration. And there's just been an analysis done and this institute that nobody's talking about is bad, but it's all for the best. He will join the state geodetic administration in order to rationalise it. I don't think there's any dispute about it. And as for your Ruđer Boskovic, I would only say one thing, please, and I didn't hear that one of you came forward when the sculpture of Nikola Tesla went down into the street of Nikola Tesla and it was agreed by SDP with the director of Ruđer Boskovic, so a cultural genocide was made, so you put him under a tree so that no one would look at him today. I didn't hear back then that you answered against it, that you raised your voice as a scientist.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60098	Okay. Replica, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60099	Dear colleague Franic, dear Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I agree with you that we are actually in the reorganization, that is, the abolition, that is, the accession of this institute as well as all those we talked about today, and it seems to me that tomorrow we actually came from the foundation and perhaps the hasty under-developed and insufficiently analysed government decisions. It's all written in the economic recovery program that was laid down through one government conclusion at the end of July. The evidence for this claim is that the document called the single criteria for the establishment of agencies, institutes and other regulatory bodies bears the date of October 2010. That document that should actually be the basis to see what we have, what we don't have, how we need to form what we need and by what criteria we haven't yet adopted. And the logic in a normally functioning state was to first make this document that bears the name of the proposal and has not yet been adopted, and that only then, based on clear criteria, we base a clear analysis on actually making decisions about which agencies, which the institutions, which the funds attach to, to end, to reduce. Otherwise, we come up with absurd situations. Before the summer, we abolished the Education Agency, for lifelong learning and adult education, and joined the Professional Education Agency, and we said it would save us. Friends and colleagues who are savings? These two agencies continue to operate each and every one of them in their own space, in the same areas where they worked. They have the exact same people working in them, and we're actually that story about the accreditation of lifelong learning completely lost. I also have to admit, I wonder how much money we're actually going to save, and I'm asking the Secretary of State to tell us, in the final address, exactly how much money we're going to save by applying this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60100	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Franic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60101	And the esteemed colleague Lugaric is absolutely not clear what experts are, which are not those of the geodetic profession, but let's say the economists consulted on this law. The rules of fine conduct would suggest that at least they invited the director of the State Geodetic Institute and talked to him to see what the benefits are, which are the negativity of a radical move like this. 'Cause watch out, we're one institute attached to the state administration, the body of the state administration. As we had previously joined a business company, and before that, we also joined this state administration in that first law. So what kind of rationalizations are and what experts have advised these savings and which, I agree, I want to hear today all day what these are actually savings that we are going to make with these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60102	Thank you. Final review, Secretary of State Davor Snotty. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60103	Here, I'd just like to thank you for your constructive discussion. I assure you, by joining this institute to the State Geodetic Authority, the geodetic work will not freeze particularly in this section of expertise and especially the geoinformation system on which the Institute has worked most. The savings are about 500 thousand kuna. No one will be left of these 27 people, 27, 28 without a job because they will be deployed. A regulation on the internal structure of the State Geodetic Administration will take care of all affairs. I say before us are now the primary business of the national spatial data infrastructure under the State Measurement Act and the Realty Catastrophe. This is also about the EU. We've brought in that metadata rule, and that's one pretty big, complex and complicated job. As for the donations of Norway, the Kingdom of Norway donated it to the Republic of Croatia, not directly to the Institute, but to the Republic of Croatia. Thus, those funds were not wasted. All this equipment and this will all be included in the State Geodetic Administration and will be further rationally and managed and used. We have maps, we have finished the Croatian map, we have all the areas recorded so far, all the other bases are in this, and this is not an exact claim, and I cannot accept that it pleases one of the private companies in the Republic of Croatia. We're not going to name anyone, but if we're going to talk about companies, then the company in Europe and the world is recognised and the government certainly doesn't, and neither does the State Geodetic Administration. That's it. I hope you will pass the law, and you will see that the internal structure regulation that we must change at the State Geodetic Administration will also be amended, because the State Geodetic Administrations must comply with the Law on Courts in the section relating to land and book offices and grantshops. We need to get there that they are in the same area so that the regulation may be somewhat wider around the organization, but all these people will be in accordance with all these skills and skills allocated to timely affairs. Whether it's gonna be one, two, three or five sectors that's less important now and what they're called, but they're gonna be doing the jobs they need to do, and we're sort of rationalizing that we're not going to have to hire people out of the system, we're already getting people with experience. So even from the geodetic administration, they won't have to give any consent to the reception of new people. As far as geodetics are concerned, they are happy in this recession situation in the world because in Croatia, in fact, one of the only professions where full employment exists. There really is a full-time job, and everybody's really got work to do. None of them can complain they're out of work. Chaos isn't in the cataster, the measurements are progressing, the cataster is arranged, the cataster is large, largely arranged. There is one small disproportionate to grants and land books, which has gone much further from the cadastre than land books, however, and we are now at the end of the alignment, so those measurements that the catastre has conducted will also be carried out by municipal courts or their grants as soon as possible. The common information system ends, it should work on the geo portal by the end of the year, so we will now have identified and harmonised data for most of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60104	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports and thereafter with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension Insurance and thereafter the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment and Rights at the time of unemployment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-20-0.u60105	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Measurement and Real Estate Cataster, it is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 604. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 77 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 39 against, together with the amendments adopted. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. We continue to work with the agenda item announced, which is - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Sports, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 606 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 150. Rules of Procedure. The emergency procedure combines first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the session, the amendment was submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Ms Diana Vican, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
