ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50175	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, today we have a spatial plan of Nature Park Lonjsko polje. We're very pleased that today we can finally suggest it, because it's been a long time since that plan was done. But how all the subjects had to be involved in the plan, including the citizens themselves in the area, of course, that the coordination took a long time. The area of Lonjski and Wet field with a belt along the left bank of the Sava River is in total area of 50650 ha. As you can see, a tremendously large area, which is unfortunately inhabited by only 4324 inhabitants. Of course, we are required to bring a spatial plan of the area of special features for Nature Park Lonjsko polje and therefore we are proposing this plan to you today. The main features of this plan are that the park is a particularly protected wetland area and that it is an important habitat for birds and one of the most important protected areas in Europe. In a large part of nature park is actually a natural retention. 77% of the area is a natural retention that protects against the floods of the city of Zagreb, Sisak and the entire lower Posavina. Nature park Lonjsko polje is located mainly in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County, and it is important that it includes the towns of Sisak, Kutina, Novska, and the municipalities of Popovac, Jasenovac, Lipovljani and Velika Ludina, and the smaller part of Brodo-Posavina County and includes only parts of the municipalities of Stara Gradiška and Okucani. Unfortunately, there is a constant negative demographic process in this area, and therefore it is one of the reasons why it is very important to bring the spatial plan as soon as possible. Of course, great attention is paid to the protection of natural and cultural heritage and therefore the park of nature and the area of the park is divided into 5 basic zones. The first zone is special protection. It includes all parts of the park which, according to their features, represent the special most valuable and typical natural appearance within a particular type of habitat. Then it is a zone of traditional space management, covering parts of the park in which the basic activities in continuity are carried out in a traditional way. The area of agriculture on the pooled and meliorised parcels includes agricultural areas in the park which are already covered by the procedures of comassion, some of which are meliorized. The area for the development of the settlement includes built parts of the settlement and the undeveloped area provided for further development of the settlement. And then it's a special zone of the Sava River coastal area, because the border is on the left bank, the border of Nature Park is on the left bank of the park itself, Sava itself. However, it is very important that Sava is a contact area and that, of course, this spatial plan must be aligned with both the water economy and nature protection. People in this area are mostly farming. I have already said that there are only 4324 inhabitants and of course this will allow for further development of this area. In the future, people should deal with economic activity, agriculture, traditional crafts. But we think that in this area, all the people who live there and who visited Lonjsko polje know that it is very important for tourism. There are beautiful houses of traditional architecture and therefore these houses should be used to show people our children and schools, to show what we actually have in Croatia. Because as I once said it was one of the rarest and most protected swamp areas in Europe. What's important to say is that this plan covers building complete infrastructure. We all know that without infrastructure there is no possibility of further developing a particular area, so the planned section of the road from Popovaca towards Sisak is like a fast road. The village of Jasenovac plans to arrange an international border road crossing. Then the track of the railway corridor is planned which is why it is here because it is foreseen in the spatial planning strategy. The fact is that we are now working on a new strategy for Croatia's spatial arrangement because this one was brought in in '98. A year. And, of course, a lot has changed according to this and in the strategy because it will be different in certain areas. There's also talk of the Sava word. They are planning to join the international waterway of the fourth class. Then a telecommunications network is foreseen. Water supply of all settlements located in the area, and today they do not have it like Popovača, Kutina, Novska, Jasenovac, Sisak and Petrinja. Then the public drain, which was only partially solved in Jasenovac, and of course it should also be solved in the whole area. We also have a complete power grid, and with such infrastructure, economic development of this settlement will also be possible. What I think is the biggest concern of all of us is to return a part of the population to that area, to allow new, young people to come to that area and actually live and become behind us, but also to all those who come from Europe a destination that is really worth seeing and getting to know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50176	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Environmental Protection, the chairman of the Committee of Ms. Mariana Petrir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50177	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, Secretary of State. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed at a joint session held on 16 March 2010 a proposal for a decision on the adoption of a spatial plan of Nature Park Lonjsko polje, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in an act of 4 February 2010. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a decision as a home working body and the Committee on Environmental Protection pursuant to Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the motion for a decision as an interested working body. Introductoryly, the Minister of Environmental Protection of Spatial Planning and Construction pointed out that the spatial plan of Nature Park Lonjsko polje set out the principles of spatial planning and set targets for spatial development, organisations, protection, use and use of this space. The plan extends the area of the nature park to five basic zones of protection and for each defined separate regime of management, use, development and protection. Since it is a highly depopulation area in order to retain the population, it also pointed to the importance of building a basic infrastructure and economic perspective, to open up the possibility of working in these areas. In this regard, it stressed the importance of revitalising this area through the development of tourism of traditional crafts and similar activities. The presentation of the plan by the co-ordinator of the plan from the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, the Institute for Spatial Planning, gave a detailed overview of the features of the Nature Park Lonjsko polje, whose largest part is located in Sisak-Moslavina County, and the edged southeast part of Brodo-Posavina County. With this plan, given the purpose and use of space, the park area is divided into areas designed for the development of settlements and areas outside the area for the development of the settlement. Viewed throughout the area of nature park is divided into five zones of protection, zone of special protection, zone of traditional space management, zone of agriculture on rounded and meliorized plots, zone of area for development of the settlement, zone of the coastal area of the Sava River. During this presentation, with a view to the regimes of management, use, development and protection of these zones, a broader picture of the situation and the planned development of significant infrastructure systems in this area and the water and energy systems is given. The discussion was attended by representatives of several ministries, institutions, state agencies, public institutions involved in the development of this plan. During the debate, the adoption of the plan is supported, and it is estimated to create a basis for the protection and use of space in a traditional way. It has been pointed out that the plan is a second important strategic management document in this area, with an already adopted management plan. It is noted that the construction of regulations is under way in the inner order of nature parks. With regard to the observed difference of 568 hectares in the total area of the nature park, which was established by digital measurement, and which served as the basis for drawing up this plan from the Law on the Announcing of Nature Park Lonjsko Polje, it was announced that the total area was agreed with the amendment of that law. It is also indicated on the initiative of the city of Novska to extend the borders of nature parks, and it is proposed to consider the above as part of the preparation of the amendment of the Nature Park Act Lonjsko polje. The discussion on the board found the importance of retaining the dominant population in the park area, since it is the keeper of this space and the traditional way of life. Environmental livestock farming using pastures and meadows in the protected area is an important activity for the local population. Since county and public institutions have shown an interest in the management of pastures and meadows owned by a state in protected areas by giving reference to the use of the local population, it is stressed that as soon as possible the involvement of the competent ministry in the resolution of the said. As one of the specificities of the park, its proximity to important infrastructure, roads, rail transport is highlighted, and from the point of view of tourism development in this area is also pointed to the importance of including the Sava River in the international waterway of the fourth class. During the debate further interpretations related to the non-defining of the deadlines were requested, the harmonisation of spatial plans applicable within the scope of this plan with this plan, possible substitution, i.e. an increase and reduction of up to 10% of the area of construction, spatial planning of the municipalities and cities, expressed forest surfaces, decision-making on sanitary protection zones for the Osekovo pump site, scope of work as part of the increase of the wateriness of the Sava River, etc. After the discussion, the committees unanimously, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction with 10 votes for and the Committee on Environmental Protection with 11 votes in favour, decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the adoption of a spatial plan of Nature Park Lonjsko polje together with the following amendments. On the proposal for a Decision on the adoption of a spatial Nature Park, the Lonjsko polje is given an amendment, in point 1 at the end of the sentence, the point is replaced by a comma, the words drawn up by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, the Office for Spatial Planning, are added. Explanation. The proposed amendment to the text of the Decision is in line with Article 101. The law on spatial planning and construction. Amendment two, in point 3 behind the words of the original, are added by the signature of the president of Croatia. Excuse me, words certified by the signature of the President of the Croatian Parliament and the seal of the Croatian Parliament are deleted. Explanation. Treatment with the original is regulated by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The amendments shall be made to the provisions for the implementation of the plan. Amendment three, in Article 2 of the wording, must agree with this plan, shall be replaced by the words set out in this plan. Explanation. There's a saying being done. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In subparagraph 10, the numbers 81/89 are deleted. Explanation. Nomotechnically harmonizes the expression. Amendment 5. In Article 126, paragraph 1 of the word, the list of indigenous species shall be deleted. Explanation. Add an expression by deleting the extra part of the text. Amendment six, in Article 165(1) of the wording is 20 metres from the pipeline axis, to be placed without the consent of the pipeline owner at 30 metres to the left, and to the right of the pipeline axis. In paragraph 2 in all three subparagraphs of the word October 1999, the designer "Protection" d.o.o. Umag's being wiped out. Explanation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In view of the proposed amendment, paragraph 2, we note that the rules on protection against fires of public institution Nature Park Lonjsko polje assessment of fires against the Park of Nature Lonjsko polje and fire protection plan Lonjsko polje are subject to regular coordination with new circumstances in space, as well as the needs for additions due to changes in regulations, either from the area of protection and rescue, or from the area of fire protection. Since the above documents can be expected to be modified, we propose to delete the text in brackets. Amendment seven, Article 171, and the procedures for issuing local permits, building conditions, performance solutions, building solutions, and spatial plans, shall be amended until the entry into force of this plan, shall be completed in accordance with this plan. The proposal for an amendment shall, without a doubt, be governed by the transitional and final provisions which shall enter into force until the date of entry into force of this plan, be completed in accordance with this plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50178	Thank you. Do the other representatives of the board want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Madam Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50179	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say at the very beginning of the presentation on behalf of the SDP Club on this proposal for a decision on the adoption of a spatial nature park Lonjsko polje plan, that the SDP club will support this decision. We estimate that it is very good that Nature Park Lonjsko polje finally gets a spatial plan because it will certainly enable on the one hand a greater protection of Nature Park and on the other hand will certainly encourage the development of this space in some way. However, regardless of what we will support this proposal for a decision, I would like to say that we are not completely satisfied with all aspects of this document. However, it is better to have something than to have nothing. And at first, I'd like to say that I'm sorry that only after 10 years from the beginning of this spatial plan, we're finally voting this plan. I think it's a very long period and in this way we show in principle that the protection of nature parks and national parks is not at a high enough level of priority. Those remarks I've already made, and during the debate on the board, I'm going to repeat them, maybe extend them a little bit because there wasn't in principle enough time to say all these things. So I'm going to say, regardless of how we've been given an explanation that the planned route of the rail rail corridor is of great permissive power at which the traffic of trains is actually projected at 250 km per hour is actually drawn into the spatial strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which is why it's put into this plan. We hope that this project will be further discussed and that it will not yet be realised in this space. This plan also provides for the realization of the international waterway of the fourth class, i.e. in some way channelling the Sava River for which we also express our suspicion that in some way it would actually devastate nature in this extremely valuable protected area. The third observation also refers to the planned expansion of the telecommunications network network, and I would like to point out that we are pleased with the explanation given by Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulić at our committee session. That a special law would be passed if I figured out exactly what to commit to all telecommunications network operators to place their repeaters on one pillar. Now I'd like to start with certain things that seem to me still unclear enough. But that applies to Art. 8. where it is possible to actually expand construction areas in relation to areas for development of settlements up to a maximum of 10%, regardless of how we have been given the reason to actually enable the installation of certain details which are lower spatial plans regulated for the expansion of construction zones, it seems to me that the increase in these 10% is very, very large and that it could still cause certain problems. Of course, we all know that this space is highly underpopulated and that it is exposed to a permanent depopulation, so in this way it can also be viewed as an attempt to revitalize and populationize this space, or settle this space. However, this would mean if some 500 and a few acres of space were now built to increase that space to 5,000 and some hectares, which we think is very, very large. The other thing I was going to say is that this corridor that is designed for the track is quite wide and is about 150 meters, which means a pretty invasive one impact on the entire space, so I think we should really consider how this railway infrastructure would actually be realized. I also mentioned that in some ways it is unusual that no decision on sanitary protection zones for the Osekovo station has yet been made, it is a wider area of draw, which should be treated as a future water protection area because there is no reason why this decision has not already been made. This spatial plan also provides for the construction of new pipeline facilities in the corridors of existing infrastructures, i.e. where the pipeline or the pipeline is, but in some ways, the possibility of these routes of future such infrastructures passing through other areas, which we believe is not good and should have been more restrictively determined, i.e. to allow only construction within the frameworks of existing corridors. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. In 53, it is mentioned that activities and actions are allowed in Park, which do not endanger its essential features and roles and do not adversely affect the natural values of the environment and cultural heritage, this concerns the meaning of the economy. And we think that it is necessary to list in the principle that these activities and actions are so that there is no later, in fact, some false or unwanted interpretation of this provision which is a little too broadly defined. It also mentions traditional agricultural production. However, in the later text that also applies to other protection zones, we see that regardless of what is recommended to go with some traditional forms of agriculture is actually made possible by intensive, or farming and intensive warfare, which is not exactly what we should support in the frameworks of nature parks. Also, Article 56 discusses the exploitation of renewable beds of building sand that is prohibited, but leaves the possibility of being in the function of water and waterway arrangements in accordance with the rules on water and the Nature Protection Act, however, we see in our practice that these provisions of the Water and Nature Protection Act are often misused, and that Croatian waters often exploit gravel and for commercial purposes, under the exception of water and waterway arrangements, so we think that there should be some additional mechanisms and a little stricter restrictions. I also mentioned in the articles previously, there are still certain activities that can be carried out in the area of a special protection zone. However, this too mentions that it should be said that these are all practices, because too many exceptions throughout this document allow for quite a lot of abuse if, in time, this space will actually be more popularized and so on. The article 83 also states that along the border areas of Subarea 3a, and with existing drains, it is recommended to preserve and renaturing hedges and woodwoods, the question is why this is put as a recommendation and not in some way an obligation. In Article 95, paragraph 2 states that more residential buildings with more than 3 residential units cannot be built in rural park settlements unless it is arranged in a spatial plan of the municipality or city, however, the question is raised since the obligation of all lower spatial plans to comply with nature park, with the spatial nature park plan Lonjsko polje, why they must be in line with lower plans, not in principle a reverse matter, because we consider it to be a certain liberalisation of the provisions and in some way that it is not well planned. Also in Article 96 enables the production of concrete gallantries, we believe that the production of concrete gallantries cannot be considered as a traditional craftsman or a lower kind of invasive activity by nature, so we believe that such practices should not be allowed in the context of the Nature Park Lonjsko polje. I've already mentioned that a little too wide is actually interpreting the provisions of the so-called so-called. Traditional agricultural practices that should be ecologically directed, so Article 99 allows for the extremely maximum number of pigs to be limited to 200 pieces, which is definitely a feature of already some farming, and the maximum number of poultry to 5000 pieces, which is also a feature of farm farming. Also in Article 143 we have the possibility, therefore, that the smallest size of land on which it is possible to build a plant farm is 5 hectares for intensive war production, I have already mentioned that intensive war production is not some activity that should be within the nature park of any and so nature park Lonjsko polje. When we talk about recreational tourist and recreational and health buildings, which is referred to in Article 156, I ask the question since it is not sufficiently specific, does this mean that within the Park of Nature the Lonjsko polje can be built and golf courses, which we think would not be good because golf courses require a lot of treatment with different chemicals, and surely it would not be good if such activities were found in this area, it might not be bad to say that it is not allowed in the context of the Lonj field to build a golf course. Finally, I will look back at Article 164 where the objectives of nature and the environment are discussed and what is needed to be done are said to need to be tackled by the sources of soil pollution by means of recovery and regulation of existing dumps, rescheduling and editing of unregulated fertilisers in rural holdings, as little as possible by using chemical resources in agricultural production, i.e. replacing the same natural resources and procedures, thus still opening up a fairly large space for the use of these different herbicides, pesticides and fertilisers in the context of agriculture in the park itself, and we think that it was necessary, in particular in the provisions concerning the protection of nature and the environment, to bring some more restrictive provisions. Here, on behalf of the SDP Club, we will support and welcome the fact that today will be voted 3. The spatial plan of some Nature Park in the Republic of Croatia and we hope that the procedure for the adoption of other spatial plans of nature parks in the Republic of Croatia will be accelerated and that this will help to protect these protected spaces more effectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50180	Thank you. We have one correction, Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50181	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to correct the incorrect quote of colleague Holly who said that the park envisions the construction of the golf course. Nowhere, but really nowhere is golf course not mentioned as a possibility, at least not from this document that I have in front of me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50182	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Ivanka Roksandić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50183	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I will say that the HDZ Representatives Club will support the adoption of this spatial plan and perhaps on today symbolically. In fact, just 20 years ago today, we passed the Nature Park Law Lonjsko polje in this House. I also hope that on today, St. John's Day. When the first generation arrives in our protected European village of Cigoč, it should be returned from winter. I believe that the first generations have returned today, here we bring another significant document that is related to the area of Nature Park Lonjsko polje. The truth after 10 years. But at the beginning, I have to say after 10 years of very exhaustive work analysis and discussion and the adoption of a spatial plan. When the first public debate was started in 2003, I must tell you that this spatial plan was very restrictive for the lives of the population. And we've heard ourselves that here in this large area of Nature Park, only about 4000 300 inhabitants live at 506,5 square kilometers. I come from this area and I can tell you very old-age households, there are a large number of young households and just by adopting this spatial plan as a fundamental I would say documents at all for managing nature parks as help for management of Nature Park Lonjsko polje, but for living and working residents in this large area but a little populated. This is the space of one of the most beautiful swamps in the world, and I say that the protection process began back in 1963 when the Krapeje Djol Ornithological Reserve was declared. So, long ago but gradually from year to year different forms of protection from cultural, construction heritage to this village, which has been declared the European village of storks, where there is indeed the largest number of tribes in these areas. This nature park, this area, which includes as we have heard the territorial 2 counties, mostly part of Sisak-Moslavina, the smaller part of Brod-Posavina County, really deserves to use this one document of the spatial plan in some way to outline life and lifestyle and even work life in this space. The minister said that this area includes 14 settlements that are bound territorially in the park, and even 41 settlements are entering the park's administrative borders. The park is surrounded by the Sava River, which is very important, and its left bank is the southern border of nature park. The average flow of the Sava River flows through the nature park and represents a natural depression for accepting high waters. These are the natural surfaces of Lonjski and the mentioned Wet Field, which are included in the central Posavina flood defense system, which also preserved their basic function, which has always been in history. The value of nature park, I must point out here to get a picture at all of which is the area, are primarily a large number of low-lying flood forests, wet grasslands, the preservation of rare animal and plant properties, fish nests, traditional pasture system, indigenous breeds, authentic organization and traditional system of space use, the typical landscape of flood river plains, the tradition of ancient wooden architecture, preserved wealth and immaterial cultural heritage. I said it was all over the years if we started since 1963, so here I would say by 2009, when the nature park was moved to the area and Nature 200, and when it was run for UNESCO's World Heritage List in 2008, it can tell us to all those who weren't there that it was worth coming first to Nature Park Lonjsko polje and to see that untouched nature. I said that in the area of nature park is an unusually rich flora. As many as 550 flora species have been recorded. The most important are the plant communities, some which have almost already disappeared, the Polish Jasen, and then the forest of the Lužnjak oak. The meadow plant communities and the plant communities of water habitats are significant. In the area of the same park there are 15 species of amphibians, 10 species of reptiles, 45 species of fish as well as 7 species of mammals that are tied to water habitats. It may seem, why I'm counting it, but I want to show you what the natural value of this area is. I must tell you that 70% of all bird species recorded as species in Croatia live right in the Lonjsko field. Of the 250 species of 134 species of birds are also nested here, and nature park is also their habitat and often very often the winter resort of a large number of bird species. In the area of nature park 7 indigenous original breeds. First of all, horse breeds of Croatian sows and Croatian cold-blooded, Turopoly pigs and black Slavonian pigs, Slavonian-Srijem cattle, Posavina geese and Posavina goniè. Why would I bring that up? It may seem unusual, but these are the species that are in breeding and in our livestock industry almost forgotten, and in a traditional way they are kept and allowed to grow them right here in the Lonjsko field. He wants to protect their breeding. The cultural heritage of Lonjsko polje is primarily connected with the largest number of rural areas, and the entire cultural identity whose layout and spatial organization of the settlement is primarily traditional architecture in the tree, the traditional way of management of the land, traditional objects, handicrafts, arts and crafts. And what I would say is immaterial movement culture is still preserved songs, dances, customs and legends that live daily together with the population living in this area. There is therefore a large number of cultural and natural heritage that really needs to be protected, but it should be possible for people of this region to stay and live in this area because the greatest protection is now being provided by the population of that area. We can prescribe anything in the document, but if there is no life in this area, there is neither protection nor preservation of that area. Of course, when this spatial plan was adopted, when it was proposed, when it was made that there were a lot of limiting factors in development, limiting moments to adopt. The space of Lonjsko polje, first of all, has already been said in the beginning that the largest work is provided along the Sava River. It's an extremely floodous area, and it represents a natural retention for high water reception. For the wetlands of the terrain and high water which depend on the water regime for longer or shorter shall be held in this area in a way that also shape the appearance of these settlements. The supply of the settlements with infrastructure is good, it is located, all the settlements are located between state, county roads and highways which in some way enables fast arrival in this area. Of course we need to invest more in maintaining county and state roads but we also need to determine for the life of settlements in that area is a small number and a weak connection, a small number of bus lines, a bad connection between settlements. But we must also appeal to the local community that this very connection is in their jurisdiction and that they should preserve these bus lines, and I would say railway lines that are also near the Nature Park "Lonjsko polje" because that is how we allow the population to survive. That's why I have to commend and build Novska and the town of Kutini, and the town of Sisak, who add and support to their resources, co-finance these bus lines that are not rentable but are very important for the development of this region. We must say that the plan also contains the possibility of developing tourism and tourist offers based above all on rural tourism, on natural resources but also very important in this spatial plan opens the possibility of opening eco-camps that are very popular today I would say in the world and are particularly recorded in this spatial plan in two settlements, this is Osekovo and Krapje. Thus, this possibility of dealing with and eco-tourism is also being opened. This spatial plan certainly enables the development of hunting and fishing, the development of agricultural production, healthy food because the protection of land and space is large, the preservation of traditional heritage, traditional culture, traditional crafts. I must tell you that only a few people living in this area today who are involved in traditional building houses. This really needs to be passed on to young generations. This spatial plan enables the opening of traditional, precisely such traditional crafts in this area. The minister said the nature park was divided into five basic areas of protection. In the first zone of special protection, which provides 22 sites of special protection in the protection of the zone of traditional management with which it is related to the operation of intensive agriculture, which includes pastures, meadows and forests, then the area of the meliorised area, the area of settlement which continues to be a very good expansion of the settlement in this area, which means the possibility of development, construction and new construction for residents of this region, and the fifth zone of the Sava coastal zone, for which it is once again important to point out that it is not part of the Lonjsko polje but is a significant border of Lonjsko polje and that it is necessary in this way to look at all and this left bank of the Sava coast to preserve the characteristic water streams which are numerous in this area, and I would say to establish a visual contact settlements and water. Why am I saying that? Because in this area there are special values of small waterways, mills on the Sava River. Here it is predicted that the restoration in the spatial plan is precisely such waterways, which enables the practice of traditional waterways, and I would say crafts, but also traditional customs, grain can be grinded and for tourist purposes. In the end, I must say that it is good that this plan has been adopted, that he has lived through many debates, that the inhabitants of this region, come from that area, satisfied with this plan and space, that they have participated in the development of this plan and space, that the Nature Park Institute, which manages this area, has in its composition and the Cooperation Council which makes up 27 people who come from that region, who are either from associations or from cattle associations, who are from local committees, who are in some way involved in the work of the institution itself and in the adoption and proposal of all these documents. Certainly, the plan does not offer a 100% ideal solution but its adoption is very important for the further work and overall life of this population, for the development of the entire area as well as for the work of the institution because some other documents must come out that will certainly make life easier for the population of this region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50184	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50185	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, State Secretary, MPs and MPs. 20 years ago Lonjsko polje was declared a nature park, and for 10 years it has been the process of making and adopting a spatial plan. This process is long lasting because on the one hand it was certainly wanted to obtain a document that would allow for the best possible management of this valuable Ramstari area, and on the other hand there were also some narrow partial interests that conditioned that you had already developed a spatial nature plan Lonjsko polje pulls out of the assembly procedure. We stand in the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasants' Party to hear the voice of the users of this area because there are no people and no protection of space, nor protection of nature. The locals and herdsmen who are responsible for our meadows and pastures are the best quality in Europe, and the area of central Posavina with flood areas, Turopoljski Lug, Lonjsko, Wekro, Poganovo, Odransko and Sunjsko polje is a unique and rare example of the use of retention in the flood defense system, not only in Croatia but also in Europe. This is why we at HSS support the local population who wants to deal with traditional and ecological livestock farming and ask for them to be able to use pastures and meadows in protected areas because the animals grown in these pastures have exceptional qualities, and farmers can make more profit. Pastures are maintained through, biodiversity is preserved, and nothing less important will finally be known who manages common pastures and meadows and will prevent the occurrences of diseases that have been common in the pastures along the Savas because of the uncontrollable introduction of medically questionable animals, often beyond some limit. We expect the Ministry of Agriculture, as promised by the Minister at our meeting last November, to produce a certificate which public institutions for managing protected natural values will issue to the pasture and meadow users, which will serve them to enroll the land in the register and to ensure their right to incentives. We support an initiative aimed at providing meadows and pastures with protected areas to public institutions that will make use of the local population because only 3,000 hectares of pastures and meadows are currently listed in the register, which means that a large number of pastures and meadows are no use to them, so they are threatened with cultivation. It is therefore important to return the cattle to the pastures as soon as possible, but if people disappear, there will be no cattle, and then we will no longer have anything to protect. We are witnessing that the depopulation has mercilessly affected the Croatian village and that villages within the Park of Nature Lonjsko polje where now just over 50,000 hectares live only 4324 inhabitants, and all villages except Osek show a reduction in the number of inhabitants. This is why we in the HSS are committed to introducing stronger money support for keeping space for people living in protected areas. In other countries of Europe, there is awareness that it is important to keep people in rural areas because while they live there they do not grow chicare, the country is processed, food is produced. This is why people living in a country in European countries receive compensation and are considered guardians of space. Our villages have preserved language, culture, faith, costume, the identity of the Croatian people and therefore deserve adequate support in times when they fight for survival. We have shown that there are good models to help local people in protected areas through support provided by the Environmental Protection Committee by the Environment Fund for the project of the work of Roda, which has provided 700 kuna for the owners of the breeding nests to help rebuild the roof because some breeding nests are more difficult and to a ton and do damage to the owners. The storks only come where people are, and tourists come to see the storks, so this project has brought multiple benefits. There should also be support for indigenous breeds of horses, Croatian sows and Croatian cold-blooded animals and rural development provided by the Ministry of Agriculture. In addition to farming, especially by pasaring more and more locals show interest in tourism, and this gives good results. With the support of the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Culture, numerous posavina houses have been renovated so that tourists who come can see indigenous traditional architecture not only in Krapje, the European village of traditional construction heritage, but also in other settlements of Lonjsko polje. I am pleased that the Croatian Peasant Party's proposal has been adopted and that this spatial plan provides for entry into the Lonjsko polje and on the Moslavina side, so apart from Krapja and Cigoča, there will now be three entrances from both the Moslavina side and Osek, Kutina and Rekošnica. We believe in the HSS that this will contribute to the greater visitation of our protected area, as tourists from the accelerated pace and noise from the highway will be in a calming green silence in just a few minutes, and that is what today's modern man is missing the most. We regret that until today Sisak-Moslavina County has not restored the 3209 county road that follows the Sava River, from Gusc, Cigoća, Kratek, Mužilovci, Suvoja, Lonja, Trebeža, Puska, Krapja, Drenovo Boc to Jasenovac. We believe in the HSS that rebuilding that road is a priority for the development of tourism in Lonjsko polje because now it can't, but it doesn't want to pass any newer modern bus that drives tourists. Therefore, once again we call on Sisak-Moslavina County and the mayor to spend the money she spends on the team and the most expensive advice in the country on the restoration of this Croatian soybean vein and thus, with a declaration, on real support for the development of tourism in Lonjsko polje. From Sisak to Jasenovac from the Posavina side, from Popovaca to Novska from the Moslavina-Slavonian side, a beautiful area of our country, a highly protected area, the Park of Nature Lonjsko polje, a kind of museum of nature is opened. Here Sava does not provide the charms of a quick view but rather the dark charm of a slow sighting. It's kind of slow and sleepy. In these places, our people found a tourist wake. It is not surprising, therefore, that the Republic of Croatia Nature Park Lonjsko polje proposed to enroll in the World Heritage List as a mixed site of natural and cultural values. Nature Park Lonjsko polje Today is the only area that authentically presents the historical period from the 15th to the 19th century. This area is an exceptional example of the adaptation of the population to floods manifested through traditional wooden architecture, the organisation of space and land use and the unique cultivation of original breeds adapted to these conditions. The low flood forests of hard leaves are part of the most complex and large forest complex, and the area is known for its white birth, which has the best nesting success ever recorded in literature. The integrity of the area is ensured by large forest complexes and flood pastures, which is also important for the nomination for UNESCO. We expect this spatial plan that distinguishes the Lonjsko polje into five basic areas of protection to be also the basis for the development of management of the plan and of course the adoption of a plan on internal order and to ensure the protection of nature and development of the local area. This includes the protection of this significant Ramstar region, from natural to cultural and historical heritage. This includes demographic development, initiative and assistance for the economic revitalisation of the surrounding area, which is in a significant process of depopulation. People in the villages of Lonjsko polje according to the spatial plan, as well as the Government of Croatia programme should be provided with basic conditions in order to stay in that space. They need to be provided with development of settlements, infrastructure, terrible use of resources, strengthening employment opportunities and promoting traditional farming and eco tourism. The decision and provisions for the implementation of the spatial plan will only be implemented if the availability of spatial planning documents is ensured, so we propose that the whole spatial plan, together with the e-version and maps, be published in the web pages of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, and the County Office for Spatial Planning, and that in every municipality and city that affects the area of nature park, be made available at all times in the electronic version of the whole document. It's important for a few reasons. First, all who want to see what regime their particle of land is within the nature park must get it immediately so that they can know to what extent and how they can master it when it comes to pasture, the use of forests, baskets, agriculture, and, in our opinion, it should be both in the catastrus and in the electronic garland. Secondly, that everyone who wants and plans economic activities on the edge of Lonjsko polje knows what they can do and can't do. Thirdly, any environmental impact assessment or outcome of the combined environmental protection conditions in the surrounding area around the park will have to take into account the environment and the assessment of the potential impact on the area of the park. Since elaborate contains data from the initial state of play in the impact assessment, comparable data must be used in order to obtain comparable assessments, models and conclusions based on the same baseline data. It is a public document, and the Environmental Protection Act also sets out the principle of access to information and public participation to be respected. This is all very important because this reduces the entry costs for the implementation of projects that are important for the development of this region. Not every investor has to carry out research that raises up to 20,000 euros to what it costs similar elaborates in the European Union. We want space to become more competitive because of the availability of zero-state measurement and to attract investments in plants and technologies that can live in that space in accordance with protection regimes such as building energy on biomass, and yet because of its nature it must pass through the process of assessing environmental impact or obtaining united conditions. There is no deadline for harmonising municipal and urban spatial plans with this spatial plan, so we suggest that the Ministry of Environmental Protection, due to the poor financial state of the municipalities and cities, help in this process of coordination within as short a time as possible to avoid problems with issuing permits, which is again a new grey zone and possible source of corruption, but it is also a brake to launch an economic initiative in that area. The HSS Club supports the proposal of the town of Novska, which also positively declared the Ministry of Environmental Protection, that the boundaries of nature park change and that the settlements of Stara Subotska and Plesmo enter the nature park. We accept that this process is carried out as the minister stressed on the committee over the next 6 months to a year, as it will certainly be necessary to make some more changes by monitoring the implementation of the spatial plan. It has been established by digital field recording that the park area is slightly larger than that entered by the limits established by the Law of Declaration, and this requires compliance with the real state of play on the ground and the amendments to the law. Lonjsko polje is a unique nature park and the largest protected flood area in the Danube basin. The swamp areas are the most endangered eco systems, so their preservation has national and international significance. In order to meet the criteria of the Ramstar Convention, the wet habitat must support more than 20,000 swamp birds and Lonjsko polje and support them. In the area of Lonjsko polje there are two ornithological reserves Krapje jol and Rakita. In the nature park, as many as 550 species of plants have been reported, many in Europe are at risk or are on the verge of extinction. Lonjsko polje is an ideal combination of cultural and natural values. The area of great rural heritage and buildings. By safeguarding the Lonjsko polje we value and preserve our own identity and develop awareness of our value. We believe that this spatial plan will establish a new, even better way of managing cultural and natural goods in the Lonjsko field, estimating the local population that keeps the space and deals with traditional agriculture, and would also contribute to the promotion of eco tourism in the environment, and the HSS club would be happy to support its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50186	Thank you very much. We have one application for correction of the alleged, distinguished colleague Davorko Vidovic. Here's my colleague Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50187	I'm correcting a little ominous quote from my colleague, Petir, that the county road that really makes it a priority for any projects related to this spatial plan is not made because the mayor spent money on the team. That's unnecessary. At this point, it is much more important to understand that it is a space that crosses the borders of both the county and the town of Sisak where I am. And it would be much better and more useful to fight for Croatian roads and the Croatian state to intervene in this non-investment area, which has been devastated by non-investment for decades. So, we're not gonna be saved by our colleagues by the mayor's budget. ... I'm defending the principle of God. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Let those personal ones go, let go of personal relationships and problems. It has nothing to do with what we're saying. I guess we care more about really bringing that space into a function that he deserves.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50188	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50189	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Rules of Procedure 209 and 210 have been injured. My colleague Vidovic totally misquoted me. I didn't say the road wasn't built because she spends money on the team, the most expensive advice in the country which is fact. Everyone knows that, but that money she spent on that road. And the road wasn't built because of its incompetence because it misprepared a project to rebuild the road and the project fell in the last phase of the PHARE programme because Mrs. Mayor had not prepared the project and construction documentation properly. The money at the Ministry of Finance for the rebuilding of that road was secured and you should know it as the former mayor, as the mayor of Sisak she replaced.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50190	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of Sima Lucin. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50191	counterpart Petir again did not refer to the Rules of Procedure, but again used her discussion to insult the mayor of Sisak-Moslavina County. Mrs. Petir or Miss must understand one thing, and that is while so many citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County vote for her that she is the mayor and she may love her or not love you anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50192	Well, let's not turn the debate into a project of nature protection into a debate on the functioning of the county because we have both time and point when and when we can discuss it. Once again, there was a plate of injuries to the Rules of Procedure, MP Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50193	Col. Sima Lucin was injured by Rules of Procedure 209 and 210, because I said when I answered Mr. Vidovic's reply that he also hurt that Rules of Procedure because he misquoted, he was correcting something that I didn't say at all. Comrade Lucin, when you touched on the extended topics, Ms. Mayor Marina Lovric won the elections in certain promises that she failed to deliver. And I think it's funny that you guys are doing a show here and defending it based on what she didn't do.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50194	Okay, thank you very much. We're moving on with the debate on the Lonj field. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50195	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I will say that representatives and representatives of the HNS Club will support this proposal for a spatial plan. The remarks we had were contained in the proposed amendments. The spatial plan is a harmonised framework within which government bodies, public institutions and the population will act in the future. During the longer period of time, the Lonjsko polje spatial plan has passed the usual manufacturing procedure in which everything called upon to make its contributions so important the document is intended in its short- and long-term timing. This spatial plan covers an area of more than 50,000 hectares, on which some 4,300 inhabitants live. Here at the board meeting, we heard there's going to be a new census, and we're sure that unfortunately, that number is less than this figure. 77% of the total area of Nature Park is a natural retention that protects against the floods of the City of Zagreb and Sisak and Donja Posavina. Agriculture is a fundamental source of income for a small population, and forestry is an important ecological and economic foothold based on low-lying flood forests. According to this spatial plan, protection of natural and cultural heritage is ensured over 5 basic zones of protection. The first includes all parts of the Park which, according to their characteristics, represent a special, most valuable or typical natural phenomenon within a particular type of habitat. The second includes parts of the Park in which the basic activities in continuity are carried out in a traditional way. The third includes agricultural areas in the Park, which are already covered by the comcommissioning procedures, and some are meliorized. The fourth includes built-up parts of the settlement and the undeveloped area planned for further development of the settlement. The fifth is a zone for harmonising the water economy and protecting nature. Further in the spatial plan, it defines the purpose and use of space, and then the development of infrastructure. In which I would especially like to single out, and here is the Minister's case, the Sava River is planning to be placed in the international waterway of the fourth class. We believe that this is extremely important for development and tourism as a branch of the economy in this area. In the Republic of Croatia there are 11 destinations declared Nature Park. In Nature Park they do not exclude themselves but encourage and purposely direct those activities that do not endanger its essential features and functions. This category will cover several more areas in Croatia, such as the network area, part of Croatia's Zagorje region, where I am particularly looking forward to having Zagorjska up like Ravna Gora, such as Strahinščica, part of Bednja also hope to enter Nature Park. It's under way to make a study. Nature park Lonjsko polje is situated in the central part of the Republic of Croatia, surrounded by the slopes of Moslavačka gora and the highway Zagreb-Slavonski Brod from the north and the Sava River from the south. On the surface of more than 50,000 hectares, landscapes of meadows and pastures with lowland forests and old gloves are replaced. But besides its exceptional natural features, this Nature Park also has a valuable cultural heritage. In particular, it is specific construction, folklore, crafts and mere creation. It is therefore very important to preserve its cultural identity. In the 1990s, the Croatian Parliament passed the Nature Park Law Lonjsko polje and shortly thereafter in '91. The Ramsar Convention on swamps also provides international meaning, especially as the habitat of many swamp birds. The International Union for Nature Protection also included the Lonjsko polje among 7 model examples of nature protection planning in rural areas of Central and Eastern Europe. The park's special value is 2 ornithological reserve Krapje jol and Rakita. Due to natural characteristics and importance for the populations of European bird species, the Lonjsko polje is also listed in the list of ornithologically important areas. The management of the Park is very complex due to the size of the protected area of presence of many users of the area and the river system which includes a significantly larger area than the protected area. As a result, conservation and promotion of traditional agriculture, cultivation of indigenous breeds of cattle and plant species, management of forests and waters, development of tourism, protection of cultural and natural heritage, and in particular spatial planning of issues of exceptional importance for the future of this protected area. This large valley flood zone of the Sava River with the tributaries Lonja, Struga, Pakla, Ilova, Trebež, Česmo and many smaller tributaries makes this natural landscape one of the most valuable swamp areas in Europe. And in the end, I'm going to say what we've received as a request from the inhabitants of the Lonj field. A part of it was mentioned by a colleague named Petyr. The inhabitants of the area must be familiar with all documents adopted and concerning their areas or works of a public institution. I therefore request that the Statute of the Public Institution, the Nature Park Management Plan, the Internal Order Regulation be published on the website of a public institution. All those unable to obtain documents in this way must find a way for residents, people in that area to come up with these documents because these documents determine their lives. Now, once again, I'm going to say that the HNS Club will support this proposal of the Space Plan Lonjsko polje.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50196	Thank you very much, colleague. This concludes the club debate, we move on to an individual debate. First, a colleague named Stjepan Kundić came forward. Please welcome a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50197	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. One rhetorical question at the beginning which determines the spatial plan of Nature Park Lonjsko polje. Five things. The first is the organisation and distinction by purpose, the second deployment of functions of importance for the management of the area, the third system of public and other infrastructures, the fourth, measures of use, arrangements and protection and the fifth measures for the promotion and protection of nature, the landscape values of the cultural goods environment. As we know the holder of the design of the Spatial Nature Park Lonjsko polje is the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. In 1990, as my predecessors said, a law was passed on the declaration of Nature Park Lonjsko polje and Mokroplja with a belt along the left bank of the Sava River in the total area of 50 thousand 650 hectares. I would like to point out that the plan in question has passed the public debate procedure, during which the opinion and proposals have been submitted by a total of 29 entities. Of these 29 comments, 19 was accepted, 3 was partially accepted, 5 were interpreted and 2 were not accepted. The plan was discussed on 18 December 2008, and on 3 December 2009 at the 30th and 71st session of the Council of Spatial Planning of the State. And now I point out the conclusion of this Council which says: “Respecting the report made in the second, re-public debate, the Council has positively assessed the Plan, and in the framework of the work of the Council there has been a visit to and tour of Nature Park with a certain presence of representatives of the Institute for Spatial Planning of Sisak-Moslavina County and representatives of the Public Institute Park of Nature Lonjsko polje. On which the draft final draft plan was drawn up, the Ministry asked and received agreement and opinions from the Ministry of Culture, Nature Protection, the Department for Cultural Heritage Protection, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, further the Office for Intangible Resources and further the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development." Something about the main characteristics of the ending that was already said. It is, as the Ramsar swamp area is said, an important habitat of birds and one of the most important protected areas in Europe. It is an extremely rural area dominated by small settlements along the Sava River and two larger settlements and this is Jasenovac on the south and Osekovo on the north side of the Park. A large part of the park is a natural retention, which means about 77% of the space used to protect against the floods of Zagreb, Sisak and Donja Posavina. Agriculture is still a fundamental source of income from the growing population of Lonjsko polje. The Park area is characterized by low-lying flood forests, and forestry is an important economic and economic foothold. Nature park Lonjsko polje is located mostly in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County, including parts of cities, means Sisak, Kutina and Novska, as well as the municipality of Popovac, Jasenovac, Lipovljani and Velika Ludina, and the smaller part of the area of Brodo-Posavina County, including parts of the municipalities of Stara Gradiška and Okucani. Unfortunately, and this has already been pointed out, a negative demographic process is being recorded in park areas. In the park area, 4324 inhabitants live, all settlements except Osijek show a decrease in population, while the average population density is 8.44 inhabitants per square mile. As far as the protection of cultural and natural heritage of the Park is concerned, it is extended to five basic zones of protection. The zone of special protection, the second zone of traditional land management, the third zone of agriculture, the fourth zone of areas for the development of settlements and the fifth zone of the Sava River coastal area. The specially protected nature sites in the area of the Park are special ornithological reserves Krapje dol, that is the area of about 25 hectares, and Rakita area about 430 hectares. The Republic of Croatia has proposed that the park be included in the World Heritage List as a mixed site of natural and cultural values. As regards the purpose and use of the area, the area of the Park, given the purpose and use of the area, is divided into areas intended for the first development of the settlement 1.16% and areas outside the area for development of the settlements, are hurricanes, meadows, pastures, forests and other agricultural areas. Areas for the exploitation of mineral raw materials are the exploitation of fields Struzec and Vrbak, which will be used until stocks are exhausted, and will then be recovered and brought to a function of an appropriate Nature Park, tourism, recreation and others. In line with the needs of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, this plan provides for a special purpose zone in Jasenovac. As far as the visiting system is concerned, the plan provides for five main entrances to Krapje, Cigoč, Kutina, Osijek and Repusnica and 13 other entrances to Park. The main entrance is a spatial functional set by which a visitor information centre is organized with all necessary facilities. As regards infrastructure as a whole, it is planned to improve infrastructure across all segments. For the protection of space, the introduction of new infrastructure lines, is planned wherever possible in existing corridors. And now in the end, I am encouraged by Wednesday's debate by my colleague Jurjevic, who said the literary section has no place in the Parliament. I am going to break it a little bit, and this is how I will conclude my conclusion: namely the 16th March 2010 which was spent by two Committees on Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning, the Lonjsko polje was not the day of French naturalist Emil Zola, it was the day of Croatian lyrics and Dobris Cesaric and his song "Slap". Namely, an extremely high-quality debate between all colleagues and colleagues who were present there, the common idea of accepting the Lonjsko Polje spatial plan has been crystallized. Of course, it is important to mention a large number of professional people who have made such a quality program over the course of 10 years. And to finish, every drop helps create this waterfall that we must be very proud of. Therefore, I am taking the opportunity to thank all my colleagues and fellow MPs, especially the minister and all of them for supporting this plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50198	Thank you very much. A esteemed colleague, Ivica Pancic, has also applied for the debate. Here you go, pal Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50199	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. When I talk about these topics immediately, the key question is raised, does the Republic of Croatia care about its natural resources, or does it care enough? If we take laws, signed conventions, institutions that we have introduced, the answer can be more than positive. If we see the practice of what's happening on the ground, the answer would be dubious. When I say that, I mean the adoption of spatial plans of previous years that they've allowed, although we probably won't allow the concreteisation of the coast here, the shores that allowed the deforestation of the golf course as mushrooms after the rain, which allowed the devastation of protected areas. About a year ago, we also talked about reducing the area of Medvednica Nature Park, which probably continued because institutions were unable to do their job in quality regardless of whether it was state or local. We can also talk about our relationship to the protection of natural values and about that famous ZERP we introduced, and then we suspended it in that segment that was the most important. Thus, if we know what is normative, and what is really, then we ask the question and what is the key purpose of this spatial plan. We had two approaches here. Two absolute legitimate approaches that agree on that final goal, which is the protection of the local population whose number we will also agree on, is reduced and unquestionably. How good, how bad, that can be discussed. One approach speaks of encouraging economic activity on the development of infrastructure projects all in this ultimate goal of protecting the quality of life of the local population, and another approach that I am closer to, and that is also which we could hear here from different clubs, which is that this spatial plan should serve better the functioning of nature parks, all in order to better protect the plant and animal objectives. And yet, finally, he's using it for the local population. Two approaches and it is difficult to find a balance not only on the example of Lonjsko polje but on any protected area, whether it is national parks, nature parks or some other degree of protection. But finding balance is just art. For one Lonjsko polje, the flood area is the largest protected area in Europe on the list of Ramsar list, it is also an extremely important area of ornithology, which is also internationally on the list of particularly significant areas. And at the same time on the other hand, these are swamps that are best to dry. I'm saying this from personal experience when I proposed the announcement of the Kopački butt National Park a few years ago. And that's when that very space of Kopac's ass was clashed with those two thoughts. It is one thing to protect these areas further, because the aim is to protect the plant and animal world, and thus to improve the lives of the local population and the additional tourist and intrinsic offer of the Republic of Croatia to Europe and the world and the other is to think that we simply don't need it, and the best thing to do is that there is nothing, except maybe arranged trails where tourists will walk. Such thinking prevailed in Europe, and therefore these flood areas remain one of the few yet to be protected in Croatia. First of all, the Lonjsko polje as in this continental part of Croatia, Medvednica or Samoborsko gorje or Papuk, or I would already mention Kopački rit, and I would refer here to the town of Vucedol as a famous archaeological site, but a very interesting natural area along the right coast of Danube on a move towards the city of Ilock, offer something Croatia can use. There may not be such attractiveness as the Adriatic Sea and coastal waters, but this is our chance that this economic crisis offers to exploit better potentials that we have not yet used, and this is among other things a tourist offer in this continental part of the country, it is certainly ecological agriculture. And it may sound blasphemous and I don't want it to be understood that way, the greatest benefit from this economic crisis may be the Park of Nature Lonjsko Polje. I remember arguing a few years ago about that famous Danube-Sava channel. I say once again that it is a project that is economically invaluable, which would be a bottomless hole, especially when we know that Croatian roads were being built here, so that billions would probably jump to 4.5 billion euros, and that the benefits would not be nearly anything, and among other things would have had a negative effect on the Lonj field because of the sewerling of the Sava River in order to make it an international water river. Need to know that the Sava River it has meaning precisely because it is such, it can't have the potential of airworthiness as it has the Danube River. The Danube River has its other features again. And that's why our violence on nature, and that very channel was one kind of violence, is not going anywhere. We have examples throughout the particularly communist part of Europe that have destroyed irrevocably such areas, and that economic benefits, and we always call for the economic benefit that these benefits have not been. Because we humans can look at the development of a country in different ways. Earlier in the communist era, thank God is behind us, we have somehow tried to measure this by the amount of steel and cement per capita, today we are doing so with a gross social product per capita, although modern Europe today is at a standstill that quality of life is not only influenced by material goods, although it is greatly influenced by other things, such as family life, relationship to the neighborhood, friendship, and among other things, one of seven or eight factors is environmental protection. And that is why, because of the situation in which Croatia is found that we still have a relatively preserved environment, I think this spatial nature park plan "Lonjsko polje" should take care of the protection of the plant and animal world in terms of the protection of the local population and their interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50200	Thank you, fellow Pancic. The replica was reported by counterpart Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50201	You have raised doubts about the Danube-Sava channel, in connection with the regulation of the Sava River, which would then affect the nature parks that have not only Lonjsko polje but also others. However, you must know that even before the Homeland War of Sava was watered all the way to Sisak and that in Sisak there was also the wintering ground of ships and mammals... etc. and that the need for the wateriness of the Sava River is due to the port of the Sava River and the traffic of the Sava River, which is the cheapest actually traffic from both rail and other truck and other really need. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we cannot ignore the wateriness and navigation of the Sava River. That's why I'm saying I'm a little surprised by this debate of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50202	Thank you. The answer to my pal Pancic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50203	There is no place for surprise fellow Grubisic, simply Sava should be what it was and at this time which you mentioned. However, the plan was not of this government, but of Austria-Hungarian Hungary and then of the communist Yugoslavia, then in the 1990s and 2000s, it was never completely put aside in 2004. The goal was to further increase river transport on the Sava River. And you should know that the only international river is the Danube, that Vukovar has the largest river port, one of the largest in Europe, and that this is the potential that should be used as the potential of the city of Vinkovac as a railway hub, as the industrial potential of Slavonski Brod, the city of Sisak and more. However, the Danube-Sava channel would have unfavourable experts say affected the Bosutski pool, forests including the Lonjsko Polje mentioned here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50204	Thank you very much. No replication on replication or replicate correction, but the login time is up. So, we're closing time for a report. An esteemed colleague, Jerko Roshin, applied for the debate. Here's your colleague, Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50205	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister. I'd like to start my debate by saying that I would say that today's topic is kind of continuing on yesterday's topic in at least one segment of that apartment because when you come to Lonjsko polje you see a lot of houses, all those houses are sold out, sold out and there are no people in them. Another thing I'd say is that unfortunately we don't have a chance in the House to show photos or movies that some story would be more credible, that the debate on the Lonj field in this case would be more true, more convincing. So you see the photos that last time there was a joint session of the two committees made to experience here and that those who didn't have the opportunity to be in the Lonjsko field to experience what this field looks like, what this swamp looks like and why it's a nature park at all and how we treat it. The third is that it is extremely important in fact for today's debate and for this agenda point in the Assembly is the proposal to adopt this plan, and I would start talking about it in more detail, and that this plan is one of those that we can say is exemplaryly made, that there is no relevant point in this plan that has not been analysed, that this plan has lived through its long-term destiny to come to this step of adoption in the Croatian Parliament, that it has been working on it for ten years, that I, as the President of the Government's Council for Spatial Planning of State since 2005, was familiar with this plan and we have been to see the space, and that perhaps thanks to such longevity of making a plan and a chance that everyone on it would be able to say almost to have one perfect form and to see all the complexity of the problems of Lonjska polje. And the complexity of Lonjsko polje's problem is reflected not only in the fact that instruments need to be found, instruments and legal protection of that space but also in the context of the only relevant, really relevant segment of people living in that area and whether they have reason to stay there at all, how well their economy is founded in that space. So you can come up with a few conclusions by analyzing it. One of the conclusions is one impression when it comes to this area, when we were walking towards Krapje, so when you go through Nova Pa Old Saturday, you don't see the difference between Nova and Stara, of course, because they don't even call each other because it's older than the other even though it's probably that way, but you see a relatively bad situation in the gardens of these houses. I wouldn't talk about some depression but some lack of insight into the future of life in that because the gardens aren't so arranged that one would get the impression that someone had anchored into that space and intended to live longer. It leaves a meaning and why someone who doesn't know the swamp then it seems that this space is completely inhospitable for someone who would live in it, but it seems to me that those who know the swamp tell us that the swamp is also a way of life, that's something that comes by itself. This water, which appears, is not an accident, but water is something to keep living with and from which certain advantages can be derived. Interesting was one detail, almost as a score, we saw the largest water polo playground in the country or in the world, I've never seen it like that, and actually it's a football field that's flooded so it's... He looked naked outside, so it looked pretty grotesque in that situation, at least for people who weren't used to such an environment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there's a spark of optimism out there, and there's one desire for that to happen. I noticed that spark five years ago in today's director of nature park, in a person who returned from abroad, there lives, about the rangers who began to visit and care about it and one great love that is not materially evidenceable, is not materially explained, but really in the feeling that such beauty can be found with such beauty living and from it receive at least a spiritual compensation. But the demographic image is very bad, it's not enough to bring back 1, 2 or 5 of them. Demographics is bad. According to the data that we received in that space lives only about 4350 inhabitants, so rounded up 4500 and with everything that Cigoč is known for and what there are many breeds, this demographic restoration is not exactly so happening and something should be done in that sense. But on the other hand, what's growing is the value of the real estate that's out there. I have heard that the value of the property has increased up to 20 times over the last 10 years compared to the price of the initial price paid for those extremely valuable construction works, according to the construction heritage of so specific wooden houses and which, of course, fail if they are not cared for because these are materials that need to be taken care of permanently. When I talk about possible improvement, about the possible meaning of life in that space that I am convinced is only there, I am not ready to leave where I live now to come here, but probably someone will because such a meaning can be found at least in the environment or people who have decommissioned from there, we can say that infrastructure conditions are very favourable and close to highways and railways and anything else that would be necessary for a man not to feel isolated and abandoned. And so with one systematic focus of those economies that can be in that space, and we said that these are forests, that it is agriculture and what it represents for tourism is one interesting thing, that life in that space could at least stop in today's state and move towards one demographic increase, not by way of 4 thousand or 3500 inhabitants. In this sense, the settlements in the area covered by the plan represent only 1% of the space with the planned possible increase of 10% of that area, but I would almost say more as one sign of at least desired or expected optimism in that space that some people will have the need for building surfaces because those building areas that already exist are consumed, so if someone comes new probably won't get into it, but will have the need for something else. As a conclusion, I would just say that there is one welcome plan, that I will vote for it as I am in the board's session that I believe that it will do so and where is the happiness of having more of these plans, which not only protect but also think about improving space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50206	Thank you very much, colleague Roshin. Next is a debate between distinguished counterpart Sima Djurdjevic. Here you go, colleague Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50207	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. All those who had this point and reported for the word either on behalf of clubs or in individual debate expressed their views all the beauty that Nature Park Lonjsko Polje has, and I recommend the one who did not go and visit this part of Croatia, will indeed be convinced of the beauty of Nature Park Lonjsko polje. And I was impressed mainly by the one on a 100-th and more hectare mountain where horses, dorates, crows, cranes, and where in the spring, summer and autumn are fed in that natural way by pasture in the park Lonjsko polje. The area of Lonjski and Wet field with a belt along the left bank of the Sava River in the total area of 50,000, as already said here, 650 hectares were declared a nature park just 20 years ago. The area of Lonjsko polje is extremely rural. It is dominated by small settlements along the Sava River and two larger settlements, Jasenovac on the south and Osekovo on the north side of the park. Nature park Lonjsko polje is located mostly in Sisak-Moslavina County, includes parts of the town of Sisak, Kutine, Novska and the municipality of Popovac, Jasenovac, Lipovljani and Great Ludina, and smaller parts of my Brod-Posavina County include parts of the municipalities of Stara Gradiška and Okucani. In park areas there is a negative, which is not good, demographic process. Only 4324 inhabitants live in park areas. All settlements are recorded except Osek’s decline in population or in figures of 8.44 inhabitants per 1 km2. The area of the park is bordered on 5 basic zones of protection - zone of special protection, zone of traditional space management, zone of agriculture on the pooled plots, treated, decorated canyon networks, area for development of the settlement. And the fifth zone, the coastal area of the Sava River. The protected nature sites in the area of the park are Krapje dol area of 25 ha and Rakita or Rakita area around 430 ha. The Republic of Croatia, as my predecessors have said here, has proposed to enter the World Heritage List Park Lonjsko polje. The area of the park, given the purpose and use of the area, is divided into areas designed for the development of 1.16% and areas outside the area for the development of the settlement, which are ores, meadows, pastures, forests and other agricultural land. Areas for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, Struzec and Vrbak, and to complete the exploitation field bring order and surfaces to apply for tourism, recreation and the like. In accordance with the provisions of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, Jasenovac envisaged a special purpose zone with this plan. The plan provides for 5 main entrances to the park of nature in Krapje, Cigoč, Kutini, Osijek and Repusniki and 13 other entrances to the nature park. The main entrance is a spatial-functional set in... organized visitor-information centre. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The plan is to improve the municipal infrastructure in all segments, which are shares of Popovaca's nodes towards Sisak planned as a fast road, in Jasenovac settlement envisioned the arrangement of the international border road crossing. The space program is arranged by the Republic of Croatia. The track of the rail corridor is planned... High speed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Sava River is planning to establish itself as an international waterway of the fourth class that we are very interested in along the Sava River. The water supply of park settlements is resolved within the existing water supply system, which is Popovača, Kutina, Novska, Jasenovac and Sisak – Petrinja. The system should also be regulated by the public discharge system. The supply of electricity is provided by the locality village from the electricity distribution of the narrow and wider area. The northern part of the park passes by an existing bus pipeline. Construction of a new master gas pipeline along the highway, construction of a master gas pipeline on the direction of Novska – Jasenovac is planned. The area of the park is covered by a highway pipeline on the direction of Omisalj – Sisak etc. heading north. As it is here and said I will repeat that this plan has passed all the procedure when it comes to municipalities, settlements, County of the Ship-Posavina, County of Sisak-Moslavina and that I really do not want to raise it to anyone, but it is my opinion and conviction because I am extremely interested because the nature park is also located in mine as I said to the Brod-Posavia County extremely well designed and needed this beautiful, unique European Nature Park Lonjsko polje. So, from my argument, I'm going to accept this plan. Thank you very much. Bringing this plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50208	Thank you very much. We have one application for replica, dear colleague Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50209	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister. Comrade Shima, you mentioned that this particular area of this nature park is a very large rural area. I think that this is evident from these data and indicators that we have, and I just think that from this part about the economy that component of the rural area should be used not only through what is mentioned in this economic part of the promotion of certain economic activities, whether agricultural, whether sports, fishing, etc., rural, cultural tourism. I think that in this segment it should especially connect with the Rural Development Strategy of Croatia, which was designed or developed. But for what. It is precisely because the incentives that we will be able to withdraw from the European Union, which is the envelope of around 700m euros. In this part, nearly 50% will refer to rural areas. We know that that segment of direct incentives will be reduced and then reduced as such, and just if we do, and we have to have enough of these development programs related to rural development, then we will be able to use these funds. Otherwise, in another situation, the 700 million stories will remain just a story, because we will certainly not be able to give 700 million direct incentives to agriculture, but 50% will have to go to rural development. And that is why this kind of spatial nature park program also enables the Lonjsko polje to be used better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50210	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica? There isn't. Thank you. Then let's move on with the debate, dear colleague Ivan Bozovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50211	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear Madam Minister with fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues. Today we have a debate on the Proposal for a Decision on the Spatial Plan of Nature Park Lonjsko polje. The programme of spatial planning of the Republic of Croatia contains the basic objectives of development in space, criteria and guidelines for regulating spatial and other units, a proposal for priorities for achieving spatial planning objectives, and based on natural, economic, social and cultural backgrounds, determines the basis for the organisation, protection, use and purpose of space, protection and improvement of the environment, the system of central settlements and the system of development social infrastructure. By law on the declaration of Nature Park Lonjsko polje "National Journal" No. 11/90. The area of Lonjski and Wet field with a belt along the left bank of Sava was declared in a total area of 50650 hectares. 77% of the area of the park is the natural retention of the flood area that serves to protect against the floods of Zagreb, Sisak and lower Posavina. Nature park Lonjsko polje is located mostly in Sisak-Moslavina County, including parts of the towns of Sisak, Kutina and Novska, as well as the municipalities of Popovac, Jasenovac, Lipovljani and Velika Ludina, and the smaller part is in the area of Brodo-Posavina County, including parts of the municipalities of Stara Gradiška and Okucani. In park areas, a negative demographic process is recorded. In the area of the park live 4 thousand 324 inhabitants, all settlements except Osijek show a decrease in population and the average population density is 8.44 inhabitants per km square. Nature Park is according to the Nature Protection Act "The People's News" No. 77/05. and 139/08. a spatially natural and partly cultured area of land and/or sea with ecological characteristics of international and national importance, with a prominent landscape, educational, cultural and historical and tourist-recreation values. The proposal for this spatial plan sets out the protection, planning and management of the natural and cultural values of space. The owner of the development of a spatial nature park plan Lonjsko polje is the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, the expert designer is the Institute for Spatial Planning of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction and the Office for Spatial Editing of Sisak-Moslavina County in cooperation with the Office for Spatial Editing of Brod-Posavina County. The main objectives are to protect and preserve the natural values of the park especially the habitats of endangered plant and animal species, pastures,... Forests, swamps and the like. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Protection and conservation of rare, endangered, indigenous populations, species and subtypes, flora and fauna, protection and restoration, revitalisation of immaterial cultural heritage, customs, folklore traditions and crafts, preservation of cultural values of space, in particular traditional architecture in wood, protection and conservation of soil, protection and conservation of forests, protection and preservation, and improvement of water quality and quality of air. The development of rural tourism recreational activities, as well as educational and scientific activities in the area of the park, the preservation of the traditional way of agriculture, warfare, livestock and fishing, incentives, restoration and revitalisation of traditional crafts, the suspension of depopulation trends, as well as the conditions for improving living conditions and standards of the population of park settlements and the rehabilitation of endangered parts of the environment. In accordance with the provisions of the Nature Protection Act, public institution Nature Park Lonjsko polje is responsible for the management of the park. The park of nature allows economic and other activities and activities which do not endanger their essential features and roles, how to carry out economic activities and the use of natural resources in the nature park are determined by the conditions of nature protection. Protecting nature park space, the Government of the Republic of Croatia protected wealth as valuable and at the same time sensitive natural, social, economic and cultural systems. This form of protection enables the development and quality life of the population with the aim of preventing further demographic depopulation. The specificity of nature park Lonjsko polje is also maintained in this spatial plan, which through the protection and maintenance of its natural values, the survival of small rural communities and their social structures, traditional agriculture and the protection of cultural heritage seeks to refresh life and raise the culture and standard of life to the European standards of the 21st century. The plan is to improve the municipal infrastructure in all segments and to protect the space of management of these infrastructures... is planned wherever possible in existing corridors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The area of the park has large and demanding objectives, the specific interest of users of the territory of the Croatian forests, Croatian waters, agriculture, the dominant population, tourists, hunters, fishermen, nature protection and cultural heritage that have different objectives and motives, required coordination and negotiation of different professions, at different levels of government, the coordination of cities and municipalities located in the area of nature park, and a number of other stakeholders. The area of Lonjsko polje consists of mosaics consisting of flood oaks of forests cut apart by picturesque pastures and open flood areas, such an area represents a habitat for numerous plant and animal species that are almost disappeared elsewhere in Europe, the management on agricultural surfaces is still done in a traditional way, meadows are used as pastures, or hives where indigenous breeds of cattle feed, the preservation of traditional construction and lifestyle, and the exceptional wealth and diversity of birds and other fauna are rare the rest of history and nature that needs to be protected and preserved in the long term. In accordance with the Law on spatial planning and construction of the Park of Nature, the Lonjsko polje determines the organisation and demarcation by purpose, the deployment of functions of importance for managing areas of public and other infrastructure systems, arrangements and protection measures, measures for improving and protecting nature, landscape values, environment and cultural goods. The basic organisation of the space is based on the preservation of the nature of plant and animal species of habitats and particularly visible parts of the environment, the preservation of traditional cultural heritage, the preservation of traditional forms of agricultural production, the harmonisation of work, life and production with the requirements of nature park protection, the stopping of demographic depopulation, the harmonisation of the interests of nature protection and economic operators, the development of tourism and agriculture, raising standards of life and work without jeopardising natural and cultural values. Based on knowledge of the value and sensitivity of the area and with the aim of preserving the most valuable parts of nature and the environment, the area of the park is divided into the following areas of protection. Area of special protection, zone of traditional space management, zone of agriculture on rounded and melliorised plots, area for development of settlements, zone of the coastal area of the Sava River. The specially protected nature sites in the park area are special orientological reserves Krapje dol area of about 25 hectares and Rakita area of about 430 hectares, due to the area of forests, meadows, pastures, swamps and waterways which represent special value and speciality in the park and are made up of habitats with a large and diverse wealth of plants, fungi and animals, nests, nests and the like. The Republic of Croatia has proposed that the park be included in the World Heritage List as a mixed site of natural and cultural values. The active participation of the Republic of Croatia in regional and global initiatives for the conservation of the common environment has led to the signing of several important international agreements, conventions, strategies and agreements, the most important agreements, conventions and laws related to the Park of Nature of Lonjsko Polje, which are important in planning space in the spatial plan, such as: International Convention for the Protection of Birds,... Convention, Convention on the Protection of World Cultural and Natural Heritage, Convention on the Protection of Migration Species of Wildlife, Convention on the Protection of European Wildlifes and Natural Habitats, Convention on Biological Variety,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the European Convention on Biological and Coastal Varieties, the Convention on European Areas, the Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Water Flows and International Lakes, the Strategic Action Plan for the Danube River, the Convention on the Assessment of Impact on the Environment of Cross-State Borders, and the Convention on International Trade and Threatened Species of Wild Animals and Plants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In accordance with Article 68 of the Financial The Law on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Plan was adopted by respecting natural, landscape, cultural, historical values and conditions of protection of nature and the environment set the objectives of spatial planning and laid down the organisation, protection, purpose and conditions of use of space, the deployment of functions of importance for the management of the area, the public and other infrastructure systems, measures to improve and protect nature, landscape values, cultural goods and other values of space, and set out guidelines and indicators for drawing up plans of narrow areas. Given that the draft Final Proposal for the Space Plan has passed previous discussions and public insights and that the inhabitants of this space are given new development opportunities, I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50212	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Zdenko Franic next applied for the debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50213	Honored Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. It is an extremely important good which the Republic of Croatia has also recognised in Europe, so it is no wonder that the European Commission itself has supported, in the framework of the "Life" programme, a public establishment of the Park of Nature Lonjsko polje in establishing strategic objectives such as preserving the protection of biodiversity and landscape diversity, as well as improving the standard of living of local population, increasing public interest and the natural and cultural values of the area. So, apparently it's about opposing things, but I think this proposal quite well reconciles these seemingly conflicting objectives. Without the local population, the whole area loses its value. The immaterial heritage is lost, local customs are unsustainable without the population, of course. From that point of view, it is also to expect that people living in the region have the same or at least similar standard as the rest of us in the Republic of Croatia. So I'd like to talk to you about a fact that we had a chance to see when we were riding a bus to a meeting of the Environmental Protection Committee. In fact, as far as the Croatian territory is concerned, we have received a message from our mobile telephones: "Welcome to Bosnia and Herzegovina." So it's about one inappropriate but common boosting of TV and radio signals, as well as strengthening of mobile phone signals by some neighbouring countries, which traditionally coincides with the beginnings of the tourist season. Well, here we go. It's already in action. It is a real aggression on Croatian ether because it is all contrary to international law, especially with the EBU Convention. European Broadcasting Union. Then, the valuer of standards, it's and... Recommendation made by the International Commission on Non Ionizing Radiatian Protection, which all the Republic of Croatia has installed in its legislation, and we are quite well adhered to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would even commend the fact that the ministry required that mobile phone operators use the same infrastructure when they set up these earth stations. However, the fact is that our neighbours do not adhere to it and that it is not only the Lonjsko polje but it is a general problem in the Republic of Croatia. You're already picking up signals from Italian mobile operators, radio and TV stations at Vis. Climb stone weddings, you already have Slovenian mobile operators on stone weddings. So the government should do something. These people who live in the Lonj field so often they don't have to use roaming because they don't even see that they've joined someone else's network. As a result, great costs are being incurred both for the local population and the state budget because the government as co-owner of "Croatian Telekom", "Croatian Radio" is not responding, and in some cases there is also a threat to human lives, e.g. At the boatman's. So, even to the normal functioning of certain professions and services. And I know, Madam Minister, that I'm addressing the wrong address, but this is an opportunity to point out to the government's representative a rather unpleasant problem that our foreign ministry as depositary of these international conventions should simply protest and engage more actively in solving and so little things that make the local population's normal life a lot more complicated than it should be. I would also warn of another situation, and this refers to the fact that through the Lonjsko polje or actually above Lonjska polje, but it is Sava, so when it is poured out, it is poured out well in Lonjsko polje, it is natural retention, so Sava is planning to establish an international waterway of the 4th class, which is actually going to be carried out in part by channelling Sava. The Sava River is a river where there is a nuclear power plant upstream from the town of Zagreb, upriver from the Lonjska polje, but the fact is that there is always one very small but still a certain likelihood of a radioactive contamination in the Sava River from that tertiary cooling circle of the Nuclear Power Plant, and there should be protection measures, because it is very little thought that the Sava River is one of the few if not the only river in the world that has no water supply and where the nuclear power plant is located. There is once again a very wise reconciliation of the fact that just like this wetlands exist thanks to the outpouring of the Sava in certain months, but on the other hand, protection measures should be put in place in the event of unforeseen events, in which case spilling should simply be prevented. So I'm saying something in advance, I'm warning it has indirect connections to this plan, but still environmental cleanliness and the future of this ecological traditional agriculture that we declared with the plan actually depends on such potentials. And in the end, I can only say that I'm sorry that we waited 10 years for the announcement, but better ever than never. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50214	Thank you very much. Next, a distinguished colleague, Vlatko Podnar, checked in. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50215	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister and Mr. Grief. So here at first I will say that I will support this Proposal for a spatial plan of a public institution of Nature Park Lonjsko polje, for the simple reason that reading this Proposal of a spatial plan overcame those initial problems about who is older in an area, i.e. coke or egg, to express myself whether it is foresters, whether it is forestry or it is a public institution or the administration of a public institution. Obviously, there has been coordination and attitudes and all that has affected this law itself on the declaration of a public institution, or nature park, because when we look through history, these all surfaces were created in part in the late 19th century by cutting down the forest, settlement at that time of the population into that area, and from this came such beautiful architecture but also also an extensive way of managing agricultural areas. The participation of forest areas in this case is 60%, with it being about 35 thousand hectares, and under the management regime itself is 30 thousand hectares, i.e. it becomes questionable that 5 thousand hectares of forest-led forests, or more would express it as pasture areas, but due to the lack and increasingly extensive way of managing agriculture, reducing livestock and pigs, there has been an expansion of areas under the forests. I'm the significance of the forest here in the lab described no need to especially explain it. But what's interesting is that it's found that there are about 26% of young forests, and this primarily applies to the first age, but we need to know the way of management, or the length of... in certain species and thus comes to these younger forests but they don't necessarily have to be younger because they depend on the species they're mastering. That's one thing, and the other thing is that it says about 14% of the forest over 120 years, or in the 7th grade, which is just divided by the 7th grade if we count 100, that's about 14% of how long it would be if... the surface and the exact master, if all the ingredients were the oak oak trees, which have a 140-year period. Here in this proposal it is stated, that is, that agriculture will be traditionally dealt with, means extensive livestock and pig farming, but I am afraid that my predecessors have mentioned many times, a small number of inhabitants in this area 4300, which is likely to be less than one challenge in 2011 as well as how to preserve that population, preserve these indigenous domestic animals that are grown there and which should be one of the bearers of the development of that space. I fear it will not happen for the simple reason that we must be aware that life in the country is difficult and that without support it will be through rural development, either through the efforts and the Ministry of Culture under which the parks of nature are, I fear that this trend of reducing the population will continue to take place, and for the simple reason that it has only prescribed as a traditional way of agriculture. Personally, I believe that the possibility of an intensive way of agriculture, especially for those households that have been dealing with it a little recently, but also as it relates to, because there we have prescribed the conditional throats of cattle per unit of surface, or for the construction of economic facilities. I think we missed one of the reasons why this spatial plan may have to be changed soon, which is the capacity of pastures and the capacity of forest surfaces for harvesting, i.e. that extensive livestock production. If what I suspect happens, but it can happen that the overcrowded part of domestic animals is overcrowded, we can happen to achieve exactly the opposite effect because to destroy the part that applies to wild animals both to birds and game hunting, and in this way we will disrupt the balance in nature, but also vice versa if domestic animals do not occur, there will be a return of these natural habitats to the forest. For let us be aware and real these pastures are all taken from the forest and brought to pasture by the forest. What the population may have to be informed of is that according to the Nature Protection Act in the area where the management is restricted, according to the Nature Protection Act, compensation must be returned to the user in such a way as to deprive the resident, or the person working in the area. What is most unfortunate is what the predecessors said, and that is the preservation of that construction and the heritage of construction that is unfortunately devastated for a simple reason because there is no population, but here I see the possibility and development of these old crafts, but also the possibility of participating forestry in restoring these and such objects. And I think it would be through a quality rebuilding program that you should try to save and maintain. I hope that all these measures that are listed here are exactly what we all want, that they will encourage this development, but I think, with some more additions, that this will improve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50216	Thanks a lot, buddy. We continue the debate, and colleagues Boro Grubisic signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50217	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State today, you obviously have a pleasant duty to listen to these debates, which are also constructive in any case, but also commendable in connection with this proposal for a decision to make a spatial plan of Nature Park Lonjsko polje. In fact, it is seen from the overall content of this proposal that there is a good intention and good faith to preserve the existing state in nature, to create and maintain a balance between human procedures and what nature has given us and left us in the form of a Nature Park Lonjsko polje. In the very data that is listed here, one interesting fact is that the Lonjsko polje or nature park with over 50 thousand and 650 hectares is actually 1% of the surface of the Republic of Croatia, slightly less than 1%. In this area, which is 1% of the surface area of the Republic of Croatia lives 4000 324 inhabitants with a constant tendency of depopulation of the region. The content of this proposal also shows that this space is also very well connected to roads starting in the north of the state road A3, then the 10th Pan-European Corridor from Zagreb to Slavonski Brod to the east, which to Novska so is from Zagreb to Novska still in the form of one track, and from Novska to Belgrade with two tracks. Interesting but true. Although the second track track from Jasenovac to Sisak there is also a railway track that is enough with a very small traffic frequency. This nature park goes through both the pipeline and the pipeline and the gas pipeline, and here in the text it is indicated, but it is not specifically marked as a particular or potential danger of nature park Lonjsko polje although we know that by looking at the world of excise or accident as it is said with this form of transport of fossil fuels, pollution of Lonjsko polje can occur. A colleague here mentioned earlier that the deficit sources of nuclear radiation from the only nuclear power plant upstream the Sava River can also bring some problems if they are upriver from the Lonjsko polje, and I think the city of Zagreb does not control the amount of radio activity in the Sava River water. In any case, all these discussions and all the proposals that have been further made here, which do not exist in these materials, are welcome and good intentions are in connection with this law and I don't think there's any reason why he doesn't adopt it. But I must stress that there are other parks of nature and national parks along the Sava River and downriver, so in Brod-Posavina County, but also along with Danube, colleagues of Pancic are not here, so Kopački rit, Vukedol etc. where it would be convenient to make a comprehensive proposal, this is how one good material is applied to other parks of nature and other locations along the Sava River and along the Danube River where Slavonia and Baranja are abundant. Because when you travel through the Lonjsko polje along the road from Jasenovac, then it is really as Miss Petir said it was disastrous to see what that road looks like and actually it should be the vessel of that nature park. From Jasenovac to Sisak when you travel take that road from the railway bridge on the Sava River or there from the school crossing to Jasenovac and towards Lonjsko polje, you can see there as if time had stopped, architecture, nature and everything else was preserved. But it can also be a question of intent to keep it that way or a question of negligence. Namely, I am convinced that this proposal for a Decision on the Making of the Space Plan will harmonize and all procedures, our procedures, human procedures in space but that this landscape will continue to be preserved, this landscape which can indeed be an example of good continental tourism and contribute to the overall tourism and well-being of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50218	Thank you, fellow Grubisic. We have a report of a replica, colleague Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50219	Dear fellow Grubišić, you mentioned these other nature parks but not just nature parks, related to Krško, the entire retention area becomes a blue area and there around Samobor. Therefore, systematic measures are needed to address this problem, to address the problem. It's interesting that when we accepted relatively recently I think it's called the Water Management Strategy that some old-fashioned unsuitable monitoring solutions related to or monitoring of the environment related to radioactive contamination are drawn inside. So this is another example of how we have no interaction between different documents. And in this context, I believe that the extremely good solution that we have made at last session of the Parliament is one step forward and we have formed a joint state body dealing with radiation protection against nuclear safety, which was created by the fusion of the State Institute for the Protection of Emissions and the State Department for Nuclear Safety. It is only now necessary that we bring to the head of this institution a person who knows, will and can and with the profession is experienced and not a political line of appointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50220	Thank you very much. Let's be patient, we have two more discussions. The first is a colleague of the Sun's Head. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50221	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister. I can see that colleagues and colleagues lack patience, but here we are nearing the end, which is why I am not going to repeat everything that has been said so far. But in any case, I will commend the decision to support the adoption of a spatial plan and yet this topic has positive connotations at the end. However, in any case, I would like to point out once again that Nature Park "Lonjsko polje" as a swamp area is the world's most endangered habitat or one of the world's most endangered habitats and is the largest protected swamp area not only in Croatia but also in the entire Danube region. It represents the harmony of natural and cultural heritage. The adoption of the Spacious Plan of the Lonjsko polje will arrange a way to preserve nature and act in this area through the careful development of appropriate economic activities. The spatial plan will also contribute to the development of a wider area bordering nature park and the development of potential in agro tourism, as well as to the development of new business opportunities. All of this I am convinced will also contribute to increased employment at local level. But there are some other preconditions, and I believe that you will agree with me that nomination, the Croatian nomination of the Lonjsko polje as a mixed world good stemmed from the UNESCO World Heritage Centre's recommendation, which highlights the importance of increasing goods and natural values to balance natural and cultural world values. Perhaps we are not really aware of just how much inclusion in UNESCO's list brings an annual tourist to Croatia or how many tourists who love tourism, who live for it or, for example, invest in their list, so that I can say vacation so that they can visit one of the destinations listed on UNESCO's World Heritage List can contribute to increasing tourists and in Lonjsko polje. It's not that big, but we still have to realize that it's increasing every year. What I still want to say is that the World Heritage Committee believes that the nominated well therefore Lonjsko polje deserves inclusion if it meets the requirements of at least one of the ten proposed criteria. The Lonj field lists two criteria for cultural heritage and two for natural heritage in its nomination. Nature Park "Lonjsko polje" is today the only area that authentically presents the historical period from the 15th to the 19th century. I don't know how familiar that is to all of us, but here I am calling our colleagues, maybe we could all go to Lonjsko Polje together once and see, or maybe we should have done it before this debate to know what we really want and what the spatial plan will bring good. I don't want to bother you with the other facts because my colleague Hursa was talking about it. In any case, when we talk about the future at the edge of the swamp, how they like to say it, the residents who live there will be just thanks to the spatial plan competitively in order to resuscitate the economy, and I will once again say the rejuvenation of the population. And I agree that they are born in the village of Cigoč, perhaps in some way they can contribute and that there is an increase in the population of a particularly younger population. But all of these beauty and value that we are aware of could not remain such if there was no controlled activity of man and exactly the spatial plan will control all of the activities of man and our protected areas except that they are an important part of the tourist offer will preserve these beauty for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50222	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Mrs Ivanka Roksandić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50223	Thank you, Mr. President. Just a short replica. How important it is about what we're talking about today is one of the messages I received from the residents of Osijek, so from one of the places inside the nature park, and it's about what my colleague Glavak said. Namely, I'll read the message, follow the debate with the tear in the eye about the spatial arrangement of our messages. Message to the Croatian Parliament: The swamp has fed us from ancient times and will feed us in the future. People of Osijek, so one of the places. How important and beautiful this call is and I can tell you with pleasure that both Mr. Bačić and Mrs. Petir have held their committees to discuss this topic in Nature Park Lonjsko polje.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50224	Thank you. We have another debate. Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50225	Thank you very much. Here is a colleague and colleagues, at the end of today's debate on the adoption of a spatial plan of our Nature Park Lonjsko polje let me say a few words even though it is more difficult for us who live in and live in this area to speak very cold heads and quite rationally because we are emotionally bound to that space. On one occasion, I'm watching Mrs. Shuicu and our Tatjana ask the Dubrovniks what it's like to live in that beauty, and they say nice but expensive. It's nice but expensive because in our everyday life, we have to solve the same problems that you solve, and you who don't live in a monument of culture, we have to solve them, but it costs us more. When it comes to the document that we are now bringing, I would like to commend the seriousness, the thoroughness of the procedure that was carried out before its adoption. Indeed, countless public debates, professional polemics, have been made, but perhaps this could have been done before. But there is one fact that it is not bad not to point out this occasion, that underdevelopment can sometimes be an advantage. In this case, I am not going to tell Croatia, but Europe precisely thanks to the care or neglect of decades before us has led to the success of preserving this space as a space of unique beauty, unique biodiversity and space that we as a generation must preserve, protect and protect for those who will come after us. Those who have not felt what it means to dawn in the Lonjsko field, who have not seen the suns in the Lonjsko field, who have not smelled the mud and who have not heard authentic sounds which in Lonjsko field can hardly know what a unique natural and cultural phenomenon is. I was particularly pleased to hear from colleagues, such as colleagues Roshin, who were not from this space, who had the opportunity to feel all this fairytale and fascinating beauty for just a moment, but I regret that those suns and that morning could not feel simply because in Lonjsko field we do not have the capacity to accommodate one bus of people who would like to come there. This is no pledoa for mass tourism, we don't need it, but we want this space to be a space that will be open and that will allow people not only from Croatia but from all over Europe and the world to come and see it because it is nowhere more or almost nowhere else in Europe to see or feel it. It's nice to live in a park of nature, but it's hard to live and it's expensive to live. Bringing this spatial plan is the first step not only to preserve space and it is not a space understood exclusively as a terrain, as a water, but a space primarily understood as a habitat of plants, animals, but also humans. This sociological aspect is particularly important and all of our wonders about why only 3.5 or 4,000 people live there, some there are only temporary, some are reported there and in fact they don't live, we won't understand if we don't take steps to keep people in this traditional lifestyle with the traditional way of production not living unless we subsidize them to keep that space for all of us and to keep it as a civilizational good. This space is a cultural phenomenon because preserving that area as a flood zone is a matter or a consequence of human decisions, so that space could be dried up, the swamp could be meliorated and we would be able to be there, as is now a good part of European countries that no longer have authentic swamps. It is unusual for very specific plans to follow this step to ensure that people are not deprived of the benefits of modern civilization, something their colleagues said about it. It also means that they have a normal road, that they have normal communals, that they have that cell signal, but that we don't have to look at antennas in the Lonj field, but to do it in a more subtle way, maybe even more expensive way, but to leave these people in that room to keep that space for our children because they're the only ones who can do it. We can't ask people to deal with extensive agriculture, to ban them from intensive agriculture without subsidising them as a state and as a society. I beg you, the roads we talked about are not just the City of Sisak, which is the largest part of the Lonj field. It is not only a problem for the poor Sisak-Moslavina County, it is a problem that we must deal with as a state in the face of, of course, keeping in mind that even a very large amount of resources can be provided from European funds that know the value of what we have and what they have lost. So the restrictions and restrictions we put on people when they go to fix the roof on their house, when they change the window, or when they build a barn, they have to in some way be compensated by those of us who make laws and who ask these people to behave in accordance with the standards that all of us who don't live in a park of nature don't have. I ask you so much that this is understood as a kind of invitation to build Croatia as a land of good life, a country of good society, not only of this nature park, but of Croatia's beauty as a whole. Nature has generously given us the opportunity to develop ourselves in this direction as a community, keeping what can be lost irrevocably unless we are careful enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50226	Thank you very much. We also have one replica, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50227	Well, counterpart Vidovic rightly mentioned that Lonjsko polje has great potential for tourism development, that capacities are quite weak. You said we couldn't set up a bus. Fortunately, here's what's changed, so these capacities have been increasing lately. And what I'm looking forward to for the last two years is that the Ministry of Tourism is the largest means to promote continental tourism that has given rise to continental tourism in Sisak-Moslavina County because of the Lonjsko polje because they recognize what I'm talking about. We were here the other day with our representatives in Lonjsko Polje, held the thematic sessions of the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Space Planning and the Director informed us about the data for last year's visit to Lonjsko polje which say that last year the arrival of foreign tourists in Lonjsko polje is 28% and the news is that other than Germans and French people who are frequent guests are now coming to Japan. I therefore agree that support for the local population should certainly come from all levels of both state and county both from urban and municipal levels. And if we want to use that potential and if we want the local population there to live, and here I am once again using the opportunity as a representative from Sisak-Moslavina County to invite all our colleagues to come to Lonjsko polje, to see the "green zip" of Sisak-Moslavina County.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50228	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the Government, Ms. Minister Marina Matulović Dropulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50229	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I really thank you for this debate and for so many people who came to the debate. Because I think if we had so much discussion and in local self-government units on spatial plans, those spatial plans would certainly be better. We've made a lot of plans. What's most important is 550 units of local self-government finally have their own plans, and it's up to us now that these plans that are in the works like this plan, let's say the end of Medvednica, the end of Lake Vrana, the Papuka, that we can make as soon as possible so that people can work and develop. This plan is restrictive, but it is not restrictive and I am sure it will enable the economic development of certain parts of the inhabitants of this area. One more thing. We accept all the amendments that have been made by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-19-0.u50230	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Sixth, Proposal for a Decision on the adoption of a spatial plan of Nature Park Lonjsko polje. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The Joint Amendments have been tabled by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Environmental Protection, which the Proposer has adopted and become an integral part of the decision. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision on the adoption of a spatial plan of Nature Park Lonjsko polje. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal for a Decision on the adoption of a spatial plan of Nature Park Lonjsko polje was accepted by most votes, 104 votes in favour, and one abstention, nothing against, together with the amendments accepted. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the session will be held on Wednesday at 9:30.
