ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55361	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Asylum Act, with the final proposal for a law. The Croatian Assembly adopted the Law on Asylum on 13 July 2007, and entered into force on 1 January 2008. The Republic of Croatia is a party to the most important international conventions that regulate refugee status, the Geneva Convention on Refugee Status since 28 July... the year, and the New York Protocol of 31 January 1967. [[You don't understand.]] Croatia is also a party to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Council of Europe. The first Law on Asylum of 2004 and this last law of 2007 established a quality and stable asylum system in the Republic of Croatia, but since mid-August 2007, the CARDS 2004 twing project for asylum reform 2 which was successfully completed in May 2009, the partners of the Ministry of Interior on the project were the Agency for Immigration and Naturalisation of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Office for Immigration and Citizenship of the Republic of Hungary. The project consisted of three components, harmonisation of legislation, improvement of asylum procedures and capacity building in the area of asylum. During the project, the provisions of the applicable legislation have been analysed in detail and it has been assessed that certain provisions of the law need to be amended, or more specifically defined to ensure that all provisions are fully in line with the EU acquis. Therefore, the twinning project has led to the conclusion that certain changes in the existing Asylum Act need to be made in order for it to be fully in line with EU directives and acquis. This proposal for amending and supplementing the law was made in agreement with the UNHCR and the European Commission. I will only mention the most important amendments proposed by this law, and otherwise I would only say that the adoption of amendments to the Asylum Act, which would fully comply with the EU acquis, or with the directives on minimum standards in the field of asylum, was a criterion for closing negotiations in chapter 24 of justice, freedom and security and practically the last criterion for closing chapters. Therefore, the most important amendments proposed by this law are to amend the second-degree procedure in order to ensure the right to an effective legal remedy, which means making a decision within a reasonable period of time by an independent body, the Administrative Court has been proposed as a secondary body in the asylum procedure. Since the new Law on Administrative Disputes enters into force on 1 January 2012, until the start of the work of the new Administrative Courts, the Asylum Committee will continue to act as second-degree body, but in some amended composition, namely, a representative of the judicial authority will also be appointed to the commission. Then rights are extended, rights of persons granted protection are extended, members of their families are granted the same rights as those granted asylum, i.e. subsidiary protection, then extended the right to accommodate asylum seekers and persons under subsidiary protection provided by the state from 12 months to 24 months, the scope of health care and the right to education and work without work and business permits, persons under subsidiary protection and... Protecting. [[You don't understand.]] The right to free legal aid will not be limited, as so far, in cases where the complaint, the appeal, is not likely, but will be made possible by all those who do not have their own means to settle the costs of legal aid. The duration of the subsidiary protection, the subsidiary protection will not, as so far, be approved for a predetermined period of time, but will last as long as it is needed. The deadlines for appeal shall be extended to 15 days and shall comply with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, unless a decision can be taken in an accelerated procedure or in a border procedure. The restriction on seekers, the restriction on the movement of asylum seekers is in line with those directives, as well as European Court of Human Rights rulings, and the provisions on the restriction of movement are in line with the provisions of the Foreign Law. The Institute of Temporary Protection is more detailed, in accordance with the Interim Protection Directive, and it is prescribed that the decision on the need to give and to suspend temporary protection is taken by the Council of the European Union. In a large part of the amendments to the law are about the literal and full transposition of the directive, which in many cases meant only changing some of the formulations or minor changes in the statement, so in the smaller part, the definitions of unaccompanied minors, race, religion, nationality, certain social groups and political opinions, provisions on the exclusion of asylum and subsidiary protection of acts of persecution by providers of the principle... and proof of action. [[You don't understand.]] The implementation of the law does not require additional funding in the state budget, since the number of asylum seekers in Croatia and who are granted protection is still relatively low, so to this day, all 910 asylum-approval requests have been submitted to this day. Azil was approved by 18 people, while 12 people received subsidiary protection, and 120 asylum applications were submitted during 2009, which is approximately on an average for the past seven years since the first Asylum Act was adopted in 2004. The Centre for Asylum in Kutina is one of the best international institutions in Europe with very high standards and the application of good legislative practice, according to the recognition of all relevant international institutions. Currently, 38 of the 10 children are located at the shelter. Asylum seekers mostly come from neighbouring countries of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, but also from Asian countries Pakistan, Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan and the African states of Nigeria, Somalia, Sudan, Congo and others. So, to repeat the proposed amendments and the amendments to the law are proposed primarily for the sake of harmonisation and I would say full harmonisation with the EU acquis with the directives and after the adoption of this law, our Law on Asylum will be fully in line with the EU acquis on the acquis and it will provide really good quality practice in protecting the most vulnerable groups of people seeking protection in the Republic of Croatia. Let me just say in the end that you probably got and saw a number of government amendments to this bill. This came because this law was addressed because of the deadlines we had. From the European Commission, I would say in time of my opinion, which is why we have referred this law to the legislative procedure in Parliament, and those amendments are practically the result of the European Commission's intervention once this law has been sent to the legislative procedure. So we went to this very important measure to meet the conditions for closing chapter 24 on time. And these amendments to the government that you have, I would say, are purely technical, there are no significant normative changes, but technical changes. And if I pass a law like this, we will have a law that is absolutely fully in line with the European acquis and we will have a law that will no longer be an obstacle to the closure of Chapter 24. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55362	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55363	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of my presentation on behalf of the HDZ Club, I would like to point out that the HDZ Club supports amendments and additions to the Asylum Act. The area of asylum in the Republic of Croatia is regulated by the Asylum Act applicable from 1 January 2008 and by sublaws. The implementation of the CARDS 2004 project called Asylum Reform II, which consists of 3 components of harmonisation of legislation, improvement of the asylum process and capacity building in the field of asylum, has shown that certain provisions of the law should be amended to bring it into line with the legal acquis of the European Union. The practical application of the law also identified certain shortcomings both of which are both relevant and normative in nature, which also need to be addressed. In addition to the terminology and normative harmonisation of certain provisions and definitions with the European acquis, the main messages concerned respecting the right to a fair trial and the need to establish an effective legal course, since the asylum commission as a secondary body in the asylum proceedings is not a judicial body, and is not fully in line with the practice of the European Court of Justice. The proposed amendments and amendments to the laws shall comply with the provisions of Articles 2 and 7 defining subsidiary protection. As the practice of the European Union that subsidiary protection is not a protection of temporary character, it is proposed that the residence permit for foreigners under subsidiary protection lasts for three years. The period for which asylum seekers and foreigners under subsidiary protection will be provided with accommodation from 12 months to 2 years, so that they can integrate into Croatian society or learn Croatian enough to find work and support themselves and ensure accommodation since the current period of 12 months in the application of the applicable law has proved insufficient. As regards the right to an effective legal remedy referred to in Article 13. The European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and in order to ensure that a decision is taken within a reasonable period of time by an independent body, the Administrative Court is proposed as a second-degree legal body in the asylum procedure, while only bringing an action before the Administrative Court delays the implementation of the solution. Given that the new Law on Administrative Disputes enters into force on 1 January 2012 until the start of the work of the new administrative courts, the Asylum Committee will continue to act as second-degree body in the asylum procedure, but with the amended structure, election and appointment of members. In this context, in order to strengthen the effectiveness and independence of the composition of the commission, one member of the judicial authority will be increased. Furthermore, it is proposed to delete the existing conditions for the exercise of the right to free legal aid which has proved inadequate in application and is not in accordance with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. For this reason, given that these amendments to the Asylum Act are in line with the legal acquis of the European Union in Chapter 24. – Justice, freedom and security thus increasing the scope of certain rights of asylumees and foreigners under subsidiary protection, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of laws on amendments to the Asylum Act as well as the submission of amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55364	Thank you. Mr. Shime Luchin on behalf of the SDP club. He's gone. He's losing his right to discuss it. Mr. Boris Klemenic on behalf of the HSS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55365	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In the last three years under the CARDS 2004 Twinning project, the Republic of Croatia has worked with the support and assistance of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Republic of Hungary to bring legislation into line, to improve the asylum process and to build asylum capacities. In addition to recommendations related to the terminology and normative alignment of certain provisions with the European acquis, they were primarily related to respecting the right to a fair trial and the need to establish an effective legal remedy in accordance with Articles 6 and 13. The European Convention on Human Rights and the harmonisation of provisions governing the restriction of asylum seekers' movement as set out in Article 5. European Conventions on Human Rights, the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. Subject law is also important because of the criteria laid down which are essential for the closure of Chapter 24. Justice, freedom and security, which concerns the asylum area. In order to comply with that criterion, it is necessary to prescribe, by law in question, the establishment of a fully independent complaint body and an effective legal remedy, which is why amendments to the appeal procedure to the decisions of the Ministry of the Interior are proposed. An extension of the number of members of the Asylum Committee from the ranks of the judicial authority is foreseen in order to ensure impartiality and professionality and to continue the post of the second-degree body in the asylum procedure until the entry into force of the new Law on Administrative Disputes on 1 January 2012. The role of the second-degree body in the asylum process will be assumed by the Administrative Court, since the solution so far is not fully in line with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. The bill extends the period to which asylum seekers and persons under subsidiary protection will be provided accommodation from 12 months to 2 years, as the previous period of 12 months was too short to effectively integrate into Croatian society and mastering Croatian language. It also extends the scope of healthcare rights, rights to education, rights to the work of foreigners and the acquisition of practical experience under the same conditions as Croatian citizens. Article 22(2) of the final proposal provides for conditions and deadlines for the schooling of a minor asylum seekers and mentions a formulation based on an individual assessment which is not further developed or prescribed to carry out that individual assessment and which degree of knowledge of the Croatian language should be satisfied in order to meet the conditions set out in the said article. I believe that today we will also get answers to such questions from the Secretary of State and Associates. Despite the increasing openness of the Republic of Croatia and the approximation of the set European standards of the HSS Club, asylum seekers feel that they need to know the Croatian language and use it properly and serve it. There are many European cities where asylum seekers so-called "economic refugees" use all possible material rights that the system allows, but at the same time do not speak the language of a country whose blessings are served. At the end of last year, the Austrian parliament adopted one of the strictest asylum laws in Europe aimed at reducing the number of foreign settlers, reducing the number of persons who commit themselves to crime, but at the same time intending to speed up asylum proceedings. We therefore propose to allow minors to continue access as soon as possible from the application for asylum, with the mandatory provision of Croatian language learning at the shelter or at school. Learning language also enables rapid integration into society and opens up a number of positive opportunities for asylum seekers, but also for the Republic of Croatia. In addition, Article 23 is prescribed to cover free legal aid. The law on free legal aid distinguishes primary and secondary legal aid and defines free legal aid as a means of facilitating access to court and other bodies which decide on the rights and obligations of Croatian citizens and foreigners in a way that costs are fully or partly borne by the Republic of Croatia, taking into account their material position. We therefore believe that it is necessary to bring the Asylum Act in line with the Law on Free Legal Assistance, precisely to prescribe the possibility of using free legal aid in all parts of the procedure, including obtaining legal information. Finally, the HSS Club considers that the proposed amendments and additions to the Asylum Act are necessary and welcome and will contribute to further harmonisation of national legislation with the acquis of the European Union in the area of asylum and in particular to the establishment of a single asylum system in Europe and, in addition to those corrections, provide a good basis for an effective solution to this issue. And finally, given that we have received a large number of amendments, but also heard the Secretary of State's explanation, the HSS Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55366	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55367	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State and other representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will begin with what my predecessor said only at the end, the HNS-HSU club will support with pleasure this bill. We are only sorry that we had to go to juvie after three years, but now this is really a law that is in line with all European standards and we will be happy to support it. But let me say a few words about that. My colleagues and colleagues, today there are some 62 million refugees in the world. Half of that number of wastes on refugees from war-related areas, but 30 million wastes on refugees who had to leave their country for other forms of injustice, persecution, for ethnic, political or other reasons. And a large part of these exiles, the refugee will knock on the door of some of the European countries and seek asylum there and want to sort of settle in European countries, including Croatia. For this reason, it was really necessary for us to accept and act on the standards that apply in most European countries. What the State Secretary told us in the opening statement did not tell us how much Croatia is essentially integrated into these European programmes of permanent acceptance of these refugees and asylum to these people. We know that in the European Union even a Fund for Refugees and Asylum seekers has been established, we know that a programme is launched in the European Union, they call it a reset programme where if someone is seeking asylum in France, in agreement with other European Union countries, they will try to find a way out and someone may get asylum in Denmark, Sweden, in another country within that Resolution programme. Whether we are involved in this programme, how effectively we have helped asylum seekers under this programme. The European Union is even financially helping in this case. Any country receiving asylum will receive about 4000 euros to cover clear costs and administrative and language learning and to cover health and other services provided to these people in this poor situation. So that's what we'd be interested in. What needs to be said, of course, is why we showed up here today again with this law after I repeat my unfulfilled three years. The reason lies clearly in what the secretary said was that it was essentially necessary to comply with this law with European standards, with the European Union Directive, because the European Union has warned us that we will not be able to close Chapter 24 clearly unless we meet certain obligations. And it is in their warning that Croatia should ensure access to a fully active asylum procedure for all third-country nationals who wish to seek international protection in accordance with the 2003, fourth and fifth-year directives of the European Community as well as with the Dublin EURODAC Regulations. Therefore, what we are doing today is exactly harmonising with those directives or regulations. We also want to thank the governments of Hungary and the Netherlands who have helped us in this process. They've been through this matter very closely with our lawmakers. They found a series of elements to correct, correct, supplement and improve, and we're really happy with what we have on our benches today. What I would like, however, is for colleagues and colleagues to remember that so far we have not done this job in a way that would justify the name of a free, democratic state, a country that cares about the protection of human rights not only of its citizens, but also of those who seek asylum in us. Mr. Secretary of State, I ask you to show us on the fingers of one hand how many people in the last two decades in Croatia have received asylum. No protection 22, or asylum. How many have received asylum? Can you tell us that number? This number is embarrassingly small and it is proof that we have not been very open and willing to receive and receive these poor people, people we are deeply convinced of in our club to be very loyal citizens of Croatia, in order to very much help Croatia build our country, which would also accept the jobs offered to them that would fit into society through a number of years. This is what all countries in Europe do, and we have to go, colleagues and colleagues, that way. We must not use regulations and regulations to clearly reject these people but to help them really avoid disaster, injustice and all that drove them out of their countries. We are aware that there are many who, with incorrect, false information, will ask for asylum. That's the second category. But we're working and talking about those who rightly knocked on our door looking for our protection. I think we have to act clearly here. I will not repeat what my colleagues have said before about concrete changes and additions to this law. We really support everything that is now in line with European standards. It is particularly important that we now provide an effective legal remedy for those who are eventually rejected in the first degree, that any misunderstandings, incomplete materials and documentation are now complemented so that, indeed, at the second stage or second degree body that we see will soon be clear administrative courts, we think that this process will be greatly improved and that these people will finally and in Croatia be able to find in much, much more protection from the troubles that drove them out of their own countries. It seems to us that it is good that the increased commission, that it is good that it will work in three-member councils, that it is good that I repeat that we will have administrative courts as a secondary body. What I only might want to warn a little bit is practically the only observation we had during the analysis at our club is Article 20. In Article 20, the competent authority shall not collect data on an asylum seekers from a country of their origin if such data could jeopardise the physical integrity of asylum seekers and members of his family who, together with him, have submitted an application for asylum or the freedom and security of family members living in the country of origin. It's one crinkling matter, and sure as hell we need to be very careful. As a rule, we should avoid asking these countries for data just so that their family members who stayed there do not become uneasy and clearly endanger their physical integrity. What we would still ask you, Mr. Secretary of State, is who can represent everything in the first-degree or second-degree process of this asylum seeker. Article 23 seventh and eighth rows reads: "The assistance referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article may be provided by lawyers and lawyers from associations registered to provide legal assistance with which the ministry shall conclude a contract." Why such a contract is needed and what is the content of that contract. This is not clear to us why a contract would have to exist, why those lawyers, lawyers who work for NGOs, could not, without such a contract, be informed that this and this case, although they are willing to do the job clearly by protecting those asylum seekers. We are very pleased that now it is very accurate and quality-defined all rights related to the protection of asylum seekers, related to stay, accommodation, work, health care, education, freedom of religion and religious education of their children, free legal assistance, social care, family status, maintenance, family unity and assistance in social integration. It's really a whole law now, and we really congratulate everyone who worked on it. This is what our laws that are marked P.Z.E. should look like. and I don't think it's going to be questionable for him to win when we vote for the absolute majority of members of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55368	Thank you. We have two corrections. The first is Mr. Ivan Jarnjak, vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55369	Thank you. It is an incorrect allegation that the distinguished representative is a shamefully small number of asylum users in the Republic of Croatia and those who have received asylum in the Republic of Croatia. It would be embarrassingly small if all those who sought asylum in Croatia had met all the conditions for receiving asylum in Croatia, which means that they were persecuted on any basis in their country for the very reasons for which asylum is being granted. Most of the people who showed up here looking for asylum are people who came to this country for social reasons, who are looking for a better life, who are looking for a simple profit, who are looking for a job. Croatia cannot and has no right to grant such asylum. Therefore, it is an incorrect allegation and should not be politicized that the shamefully small number of people we have given asylum to is a small number of people. No, I don't. That's not true. It is simply not true when considering the reasons and why they did not get that asylum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55370	And correction by Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55371	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, counterpart Doric said Croatia is not a democratic country because it did not give enough asylum to those who asked it. That was the formulation, and I'm really surprised that my colleague Doric, that I've heard such a formulation. This cannot, of course, be associated with one another. Secondly, Croatia's degree of democracy and democracy is certainly not proven by this, it is demonstrated by the interest of asylum seekers and the reasons they seek. Croatia is too close to the European Union, it is certain that many asylum seekers are much more expensive and more useful to seek asylum in the European Union, and the situation will certainly change in Croatia as soon as Croatia becomes a member of the European Union. Be assured of this and therefore it is good to pass this law that is in line with European standards, because that way we will function more effectively. But it has nothing to do with the degree of democracy, no matter what you say, it's absolutely not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55372	Thank you. There's an individual debate coming up. The first is Mr. Millyvo Schwartz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55373	Dear President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Asylum Act. The amendments to the law adopted by the Croatian Parliament on 13 July 2007, which entered into force on 1 January 2008. It should be pointed out that the Republic of Croatia is a party to the most important international conventions regulating refugee status, the Geneva Convention on Refugee Status, from 28 July '51. the year, and the New York Protocol of 31 January 1967. Croatia is also a party to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Council of Europe. The Asylum Act also implements the constitutional provision of Article 33, which prescribes that foreigners and persons without citizenship can receive asylum in the Republic of Croatia. The Asylum Act provides for a procedure for the approval of asylum, rights and obligations. By adopting these amendments to the Asylum Act, which fully harmonizes with the acquis of the European Union, i.e. with the Directives on minimum standards in the field of asylum, it has measured the closure of negotiations in chapter 24 of justice, freedom and security. We have heard that in the meantime several amendments will be submitted, and they will be fully filled in the necessary amendments and additions to the law. The most important changes relate to the following. An amendment to the second-degree procedure was proposed by the Administrative Court as a secondary body in the asylum procedure, as the new Law on Administrative Disputes enters into force on 1 January 2012, until the start of the work of the new Administrative Courts, the Asylum Committee will continue to act as second-degree body in the asylum procedure. The composition of the commission is increasing by an additional member from the judicial authority. The amendments mean decision-making, and decisions will be taken in councils where representatives of the state administration can make up only one third, so there must be only one member appointed by the State Administration in the Council. The rights of persons who are granted protection are also extended. It extends the right to accommodate asylum seekers and persons under subsidiary protection provided by the country from one to two years of age. The scope of healthcare is expanded, the right to free legal assistance, will not be limited as so far in cases where the lawsuit is deemed to be not a chance of success, but is allowed to all those who do not have their own means to settle the costs of legal aid. The duration of the subsidiary protection has also been regulated, the deadlines for appeal have been extended to 15 days and are in line with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, unless it is possible to take the decision in an accelerated procedure or in a border procedure. The restriction on the movement of asylum seekers is in line with those directives, as well as the European Court of Human Rights rulings, and the provisions on the restriction of movement are in line with the provisions of the Foreign Law. The measures to limit movement shall apply only exceptionally in the precisely stated cases of adequate legal protection. The Institute of Temporary Protection is further defined in accordance with the Interim Protection Directive, and it is prescribed that the decision on the need to give and to suspend temporary protection shall be taken by the Council of the European Union. In many parts of the amendments to the law, it is literally about the full transposition of the Directives, which in many cases meant only changing some of the formulations, or minor changes in the wording. This changes the definitions of unaccompanied minors, religion, nationality, particular social groups of political opinions, provisions on the exclusion of asylum and subsidiary protection and acts of persecution, protection providers and proof proceedings. The implementation of the law does not require the provision of resources in the state budget since the number of persons seeking asylum in Croatia and who are granted protection is still relatively small. Although individual rights are increasing, the resources that are the state bodies of the MUP, the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports are provided in the budget, given the small number of people who enjoy this right. And as we have heard, it is not at all about Croatia's approval but about the relatively small amount of asylum applications. In view of all of this, I will support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Asylum Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55374	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Niko Rebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55375	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is another law that harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. I think these amendments will significantly improve and improve the position of asylum seekers in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, this area of subsidiarity and temporary protection has been governed by the Asylum Act, which has been in force since 2008. After the CARDS project of Asylum Reform was completed in 2009, the Ministry of Interior, the Agency for Immigration and Naturalisation of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Office for Immigration and Citizenship of the Republic of Hungary worked together. The project consists of three components, harmonisation of legislation, improvement of the asylum process, capacity building in the area of asylum, the provisions of the applicable law have been analysed, and it is estimated that some provisions need to be amended in order to comply fully with European legislation. The implementation of the existing law has also seen certain shortcomings that should be addressed. This proposal extends the period on which accommodation will be provided for asylum seekers and foreigners under protection. Azilant and a subsidiary-protected foreigner shall be provided with accommodation for a maximum of 2 years from the date of enforcement of a decision approving asylum. During the application of the applicable Asylum Act, it has been observed that a period of 12 months is not sufficient for a foreigner under the protection to be integrated into Croatian society and during that period all persons are not able to learn Croatian enough to find a job and maintain themselves and secure accommodation. The provisions governing the approval and termination of asylum and protection are in line with the European Union Directive. Therefore, it was necessary to sign that protection would be granted to a foreigner who did not meet the conditions for receiving asylum if there were reasonable reasons to suggest that he would suffer the consequences in the country from which he came. The specific hazard is replaced by justified reasons because the Directive requires a lower standard of proof than that prescribed by the applicable law. Article 8 regulates a foreigner who will not be granted the protection of the subsidiary, will not be granted a foreigner unless there is a reasonable doubt that he has committed, encouraged or otherwise participated in the execution of a crime against peace, war crimes or crimes against humanity, a serious crime committed against the purposes and principles of the UN. Secondly, if it poses a threat to the society and security of the Republic of Croatia, subsidiary protection will not be granted to those who have committed a criminal offence for whom prison has been punished in the Republic of Croatia, who left his country only to avoid the punishment prescribed in that country. Since Croatian legislation does not have a definition of a serious criminal offence prescribed as one of the reasons for the exclusion of protection, this bill stipulates that serious criminal offences are considered to be a criminal offence which, according to the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, can be punished for 5 years and longer. Under the provisions of the applicable law on legal aid, there is no asylum seekers who can be assessed, based on the facts set out in the first instance, that there is no success in the procedure. This proposal amends Article 23 of the Regulation that free legal aid shall include assistance in the assembly of an action and representation before the Administrative Court. The assistance may be provided by lawyers and lawyers from an association registered to provide legal assistance with which the ministry shall conclude a contract. The right to free legal aid shall be granted by an asylum seekers who do not have sufficient funds or things of greater value. Article 50 of the applicable law has also been amended. It is specified that the assistance in integration consists of enabling the learning of Croatian language, culture and history, and a responsibility is prescribed for the implementation of activities and the involvement of asylum seekers in Croatian society. All of this proposal of the Asylum Act has increased the scope of the rights of foreigners under subsidiary protection and otherwise the conditions of asylum seekers seeking asylum in the Republic of Croatia have been improved and I believe that this proposal should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55376	Thank you. It is time for the honourable representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55377	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I will say that the applicable Asylum Act prescribes principles, conditions, asylum approval procedures, subsidiary protection and temporary protection, as well as the conditions and procedures for their annulment and termination and the status of the right and obligations of asylum seekers, asylum seekers and foreigners under subsidiary or temporary protection. The Asylum Act, as mentioned and already mentioned in the debates, is based on a series of international documents that the Republic of Croatia is signatories, such as the General Declaration on the Rights of the Man of '48. the years whose provisions of asylum are determined as one of the fundamental human rights. Then there is the 1951 Convention on Refugee Status, the '67 Protocol on Refugee Status. and a series of Council Directives of the European Union. As regards the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Asylum before us, we should say that they are the result of the CARDS 2004, the Twinning Project on Asylum Reform2 and the need to comply with the acquis of the European Union, as well as the need to address certain shortcomings identified through the application of the law in practice. Thus, this law attributes, among other things, a lower level of standard of proof, a series of changes that further strengthen the independence and impartiality of the Asylum Committee. Instead of the Asylum Committees, the Administrative Court shall be designated as a second-degree body in the asylum procedure. It is also proposed that a residence permit for foreigners under subsidiary protection lasts for 3 years. Only an exceptional possibility of limiting the movement of asylum seekers is regulated, it is also prescribed that an asylum and foreigner under subsidiary protection has the right to acquire practical work experience as well as a Croatian citizen, as well as the right to integration into Croatian society and is extended to the scope of healthcare rights, rights to education, etc. It is also proposed to delete the condition under which the right to free legal aid does not have an asylum seeker which, based on the facts set out in the first-degree procedure, can be estimated to have no success in the procedure. Since many things have already been said about the very solutions of the proposed Asylum Act, or amendments and additions, I will not repeat them all together, but I will say that I will support the adoption of this law of course, given that it is further improvements and, as the Secretary of State said, by accepting it, the remaining obstacles to the closure of Chapter 24 will cease. Therefore, I support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55378	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Ivo Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55379	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum, with a final proposal for a law harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. The area of asylum has been regulated by the Republic of Croatia by law of 2007 and applicable from 1 January 2008, as well as by a series of regulations governing this area. In addition, the Rules of Procedure of the Asylum Committee, the Decision on costs and accommodation at the asylum seekers' shelter, as well as the domestic order for asylum seekers at the asylum seekers' shelter. Unfortunately, some provisions of the existing law have deviated from European legislation, and these amendments and amendments of the law need to be more precisely defined and aligned with the European Union and its legislation. The main recommendations for harmonising the relationship with respect for the right to fair trial and the need to establish an effective legal remedy in accordance with Articles 6 and 13. European Conventions on Human Rights. The following recommendation concerns parts of the laws governing freedom of movement, i.e. its restriction for asylum seekers with Article 5. European Conventions on Human Rights, as well as other acts. It is also noted during the practical application and the applicable law several shortcomings and normative and content that are removed by this law. The bill extends a period that will ensure that asylum seekers and foreigners under subsidiary protection stay instead of 12 months to 2 years. In my debate, I want to look back on, in my own court, more important changes and additions to this law. Article 20 is amended as follows: In addition to the Ministry of Interior from 1 January 2012, the administrative court will also have the right to do so which will also decide on lawsuits against decisions of the Ministry of the Interior. One paragraph of this Article, which is in accordance with Directive 2005/85 EC, prohibits the collection of data on an asylum seekers from his country of origin for the protection of asylum seekers and his family. Article 21, and in order to comply with European legislation, it is proposed that asylum seekers have the right to information and the right to documents. Article 22 regulates the right of juvenile asylum seekers to access education within 3 months or a year if it is estimated that the minor asylum seekers do not know enough Croatian language to follow the course. Indeed, the applicable law did not cover individual needs of minors in the exercise of schooling rights. Article 25 has deleted the provisions of Article 38 of the applicable law on the medicinal product. Therefore, as of 1 January 2012, a decision by the Ministry of the Interior will be brought against the Board of Asylum instead of appeal to the Administrative Court of Justice. Article 26 amended Article 40 of the applicable law so that it is precisely defined when an asylum seekers acquires the status of an asylumee or the status of a foreigner under subsidiary protection in the integration into society. It is also prescribed that asylum seekers and foreigners under subsidiary protection and have the right to maintain family unity. Article 29 amended the provision of Article 43 of the applicable law in a way that asylum seekers and foreigners under subsidiary protection have the right to work in the Republic of Croatia without a work permit and business permit. Directive 2004/83 provides for asylum seekers to have the same rights to work as Croatian citizens. The same directive also decided that asylum seekers and foreigners under protection have the right to acquire practical work experience as well as Croatian citizens. Article 31 provides for the right to asylum and to a foreigner under subsidiary protection to access adult education as well as Croatian citizens, in accordance with the Law on adult education. Article 32 complies with the European Union and its legislation which, under what conditions, asylum seekers and foreigners under subsidiary protection may provide legal assistance and under which conditions they have the right to free legal assistance. Article 36 provides that asylum seekers, i.e. foreigners under subsidiary protection, are obliged to report their residence and change their address under the same conditions as the Croatian citizen. Article 52 amends the provision of Article 67 of the applicable law, which provides for a procedure at the border or in a transit space to comply with Directive 2005/85EC. The period of stay of foreigners in transit from 30 to 28 days has been shortened as the said directive says that staying in transit space can last for a maximum of 4 weeks. If the asylum seekers are not completed within that time limit, the entry into the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of the regular procedure will also be allowed. This law, as it is seen, is an increased range of certain rights of asylumees and foreigners under subsidiary protection, and I accept and support it as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55380	Thank you. And the last one in an individual debate is Damir Mondekar. Daniel Mondekar, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55381	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, Associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. I understand the need to amend this law especially because it also brings alignment with the legal acquis of the European Union, but I would use my minutes to say that the Republic of Croatia is slowly moving on the path that the rest of the European Union is going on in terms of asylum, and that road has proved to be a double in this particular age of the economic crisis. On the one hand, we have that good way with examples of good practice where the rights of asylum seekers are fully respected, where they have great help from the country that received them in education, employment, and on the other hand we have one very bad path that has now happened in several countries where, primarily, the European Union is slowly closing itself in front of immigrants. I have carefully chosen this word of emigrants, because we have examples in several EU Member States that asylum seekers are simply placed in that group of people, and there are not many of them. You know very well that there aren't many of them and they need all the help they need. In 2008, I will now use the figures provided by the European Commission for Refugees and UNHCR. In 2008, a total of 200000 immigrants entered the European Union. So here I am talking about refugees and economic immigrants and a small portion of asylum seekers in this issue, that a total of 37 and a half million people from around the world who have left their home in the European Union have entered two hundred thousand. So, I'm talking about 2000, the figures given by the UNHCR. Now, that same year in the European Union we had a Directive Pretender activity and we had if I wasn't wrong about the pact. We had an asylum pact, but on the other hand we had politicians, a few very strong politicians talking about members of the meaning of the European Union who have made statements on how immigrants and asylum seekers can have a negative impact, now watch the line on the dynamics of the labour market in Europe. So, when you put asylum seekers in the same basket with economic emigrants, they were eventually treated as an economic threat to the labour market in the European Union. Now, to such a negative attitude, and I will now again talk to only a few smaller members, several members of the European Union, which the European Commission itself has said is unfortunately working on this poor job has led to one side to a firm control of the border. I'm not just talking about Shengen here. I am talking about the fact that several members of the European Union who are clearly listed as Italy or France are using other countries' services, and here I am primarily talking about the countries of North Africa that our citizens had the opportunity to watch on television, that they are actually making this one barrier to close access to immigrants to the European Union, which has led to asylum seekers often, and we have cases of that going illegally across borders, illegally crossing borders. We're talking about people who may have been university professors in a country who fought for human rights, fought for democracy and who, under the threat of death, left their country to be captured because they illegally crossed the border treated as illegal immigrants, and which gave them the chance to get asylum was minimal. I fully quote this last sentence on the European Commission's report on refugees. Thus, such examples were shown by France, Italy, Spain, even in a small part of the United Kingdom. Now, in the opinion of the Commission itself, which I have just cited some national measures have at the very least been truly dubious. In fact, I will mention that it is about measures that directly link the impact of the crisis, so it directly connects the impact of the crisis, means the economic crisis and the ways in which it treats immigrants, and even smaller cases with asylum seekers. It's a very bad example. In fact, it is worrying that there has been an additional limit to, say, the possibilities of moving to immigrants, as well as to some asylum seekers in certain centres, which really concerns them, and which is why they eventually enter the European Union illegally again. This shows, again, that I am quoting the report, the holes in the European legal system and the weaknesses in the rule of law which, on the other hand, justify the strange logic of the economic crisis and the crisis in the labour market that some European Commission politicians themselves have again called market nationalism, where unfortunately a small number of asylum seekers, I will repeat, there are no asylum seekers much, suffered because they were put into the same group as actually economic immigrants. Now, this market nationalism has already appeared once in history, in fact Europe has also appeared, and it was in fact the measures some countries have implemented since the great crisis of 1929 and we know how it ended. My colleagues and colleagues, I here categorically claim it does not mean we do not have such cases in the Republic of Croatia, we are very far from it. However, I believe that such a thing will not happen to us, because it has actually happened to a minority member of the European Union, but I am now taking advantage of these moments to remind myself that this law, meaning it primarily deals with people, people who may have gone through a lot of trouble to get to Europe and here to seek asylum and get some help from the countries that are receiving them. They cannot be treated as a statistical figure, nor as objects. And I'll just say for the end, it's not everything in the directives, nor in the regulations, this law is there to show our humanity when people come knocking on our necks. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55382	Thank you. The final word of the motion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, esteemed Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55383	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here's the honored ladies and gentlemen of counsel, I've been listening to these debates. I am glad that all clubs, and in individual debates, MPs said this law would support, but I would like to give some clarifications, or I will try to give answers to certain questions that have been asked. I would only first of all remind myself of the climate that reigned in Croatia, not so long ago when we were practically nowhere able to establish a centre for asylum seekers, where there were very negative reactions of individuals, or even a unit of local self-government, to come here in a few years less than 6,7 years in a situation that created a very tolerated atmosphere for those people who sought asylum, or protection and assistance in the Republic of Croatia, and we have this Centre for Asylum seekers in the Kutina which, according to the recognitions of experts from the European Union, is one of the best in Europe, in which there is indeed one tolerance of the atmosphere and in the centre itself, but also in the local community in which it operates, and here we have certainly made very great progress in sensitating the Croatian public and in relation to those people who seek protection and there Croatia certainly made great progress and achieved high standards. There I would have said some of the obstacles to some thinking about what trends are currently in the European Union and Mr Mondekar said that certain trends are happening in Europe. I have attended several ministerial conferences where there have been discussions and on these migration issues, within them and these migrations of asylum seekers, and there have indeed been some changes. Europe will certainly reform a complete system of migration management, as well as a model for the management of asylum seekers' migration. This is certainly one of the most important documents of the Stockholm Process, which certainly introduces new standards in migration management within the European Union, and Croatia will have to comply in the future with its Asylum Act and its Law on Foreigners, and with this Stockholm Process, but also with all other acts, with the documents brought by the European Union, and you are certainly right that in most European Union countries these processes are exactly going towards setting out more rigorous requirements and criteria for obtaining asylum and at all for entering the European Union. I would just say that what Mr. Doric said that perhaps it was a shamefully small number of people who had received asylum in the Republic of Croatia, that it would repeat a total of 910 requests, asylum received 18 persons, special protection of 12 persons, and UNHCR was doing the evaluation of almost all those cases which ended in a negative solution, meaning no asylum was granted, and of all these here over 800 UNHCR cases said that perhaps, in one case, there was a basis for granting asylum, while these others, so almost 800 items were conducted correctly and no injured rights of foreigners who sought asylum. This is good evidence that all these procedures have been carried out in accordance with European criteria and standards. In the end, here's another one, and here's Mr. Klemenich, too, just maybe an explanation. According to Article 22, which speaks about the obligation to learn the language and who assesses it. They evaluate schools, or evaluate services within the Asylum Search Centre. This period of 3 months is to determine what the child's knowledge or foreknowledge is for, according to Croatian. If this knowledge is weak, such a child cannot go to school immediately, leaving that period for a year, obtaining a certain knowledge, and then being able to go to school where he can follow normally in class and then integrate. It is also prescribed in Article 50, and in the context of other articles, it is prescribed that foreigners must know the Croatian language of a certain degree. I will only tell you that recently there was one conference, or roundtable on asylum where there were two foreigners who received asylum in the Republic of Croatia. They speak one-level Croatian so that they can understand both Croatians and the Croatian population, and I would say that they are above all interested in their knowledge of Croatian language so that they can integrate well, so that they can look for work and can ensure their existence. Here is the conclusion that this law has really brought our law into line with the best legal gain and the EU acquis in the European Union, and with those amendments sent by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because this law will surely be fully in line with the directives and acquis, and thus we will practically create the conditions to close Chapter 24. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55384	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote once the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55385	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55386	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect to quote colleague Ingrid Antičević that he did not invest in water treatment systems, etc. Obviously, it was here that Mrs. Anticevic had not read the material because if she had read it would have known that in these 105 projects talked by her colleague Bačić that 21 water supply systems were realised, 22 discharge systems, 33 health care projects, 9 social care projects, so various homes, 20 education projects. So it all says in the material that you got. You simply insult your common sense here in the way you talk about something that has already been realized. You say it like it's yet to be realized. 90% of it was realized, 90%. Only the deadline for completion is extended from this year to 2011 in order to implement these projects of strong water supply, draining etc. Go to the municipalities that are on the islands, and you will see what is realized. Do not truly make false the way you do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55387	Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55388	Here I would like to correct two allegations from my colleague Marinović. In a catastrophic performance, she also said that people sell grandfathers on islands and that she wondered how much the island was sold. It is known, at least she knows that they are obliged to offer the state first and that the state has the right to buy first and that nothing has been sold. That's one thing. Second, that nothing was invested. A concrete example of Dubrovnik Elafite where up to 5, 6 years ago we had twice daily contact with Dubrovnik. Today, Elafite people have six connections a day to the city and people live in Elafiti, and they work in Dubrovnik. Not to mention the water supply system for complete Elafite from Kolocep, Lopud, Šipan and local networks. It's a completely incorrect statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55389	Mr. Representative Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55390	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleague Anticevic said one thing, and I'm correcting her quote where she said "isles mourns the sea of problems". Well, I happen to come from the island, so I know very well thanks to the government's project and care for the islands doesn't seem to be so much of a problem. There are as many as anywhere else, but there have never been fewer and there has never been a better situation on the islands. I can say that, but I come from the city, the largest city on the islands, and I can confirm that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55391	Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55392	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here I would correct Mrs. Marinovic's quote when she talks about nursing homes on the islands, Croatian islands and says the units of local self-government are without any help. It is simply incorrect because here are 9 retirement homes built on our islands that you will have to admit that there is a huge step in the extra-institutional care of third-aged people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55393	Replica, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55394	A colleague of Antičević, after these corrections, threatens to force Croatian citizens into the islands that it is beautiful there so as not to sink at least 500 islands. So look, people, gather around. The biggest problem is that much has not been realized by what has been promised. The biggest problem is what existing programs are not realized. The secretary of state said 60% of the funds were withdrawn. We can only perform verbal acrobatics, but that's what we heard. The greatest truth of how the islanders experience it. All this was expensive for you when in the first half of the 1990s a famous politician visited also one of our famous islands and gave a speech in which he said. You're not going anywhere from these islands anymore, you're going to stay here. Then people said, "Come on, mom's gonna take off our ferry." Fear of being too good when spoken in the House, and too bad there living is what we should be asking ourselves. Well, it's not the whole point of us fighting here who's going to paint, pitura or build some new Podkinov that I know villages as they say, but to say where the problems are. If there's a problem, let's tell them. If the funds weren't withdrawn, and they should have been withdrawn, let's face it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55395	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55396	Well, you're telling your colleague that we need to admit the problems so they can get rid of each other, but the spin is still going on. It doesn't work anymore, though. This shows now and now this data now about a significant and drastic fall and the sinking popularity of the ruling ones. You say there are problems. But the government doesn't admit any problems all this time. She forbids problems. Everything is beautiful and everything is wonderful and simple by their logic the operation succeeded, but the patient died.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55397	Final Review State Secretary Zdravko Marić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55398	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a little bit. It was not my intention to address anything at all, but in spite of this debate, to say a few perhaps facts that I did not make clear enough in the opening, or which have now become the subject of debate. So, of course, I'm going to focus on exactly this point that we're discussing here, and that's this loan framework agreement, that's this particular project. So, the exact figure I said was that up until now, that 60% of the funds have been withdrawn, but it's also true, and the figure that the esteemed representative Bacic said, that almost 90% of the project has been realised. What reason am I saying that? So, we, when this law in the Parliament, I hope we vote and move forward with its implementation already has a significant number of projects that are ready and withdrawing funds, further withdrawal funds will be realised this year as well. I should also say, therefore, the Council of Europe Development Bank is also a respected representative on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU said well. So one of Europe's oldest financial institutions to deal with, which supports social and development projects. This is a project that the Council of Europe Development Bank estimates very positively, although there are no objections. I will not temporarily say stopping the use of funds, for a number of reasons why the Council of Europe Development Bank is very unhappy in terms of implementation and that it is someone's fault in the Republic of Croatia, but there is one procedural reason. Therefore, the original Framework Loan envisioned 50% of the state budget, 50% of the CEB. We changed that by including units of local self-government, which, according to these percentages, would be 50% and then the state budget and the CEB each 25%. Since there has been an unbalanced withdrawal, therefore units of local self-government have been cascaded in that part, therefore the breach of these percentages has activated one of the clauses that form part of the Statute of the Council of Europe Development Bank where they have actually initiated these changes. So I really don't see any big problems in the project. In addition, we heard in the debate really positive experiences from individual islands and individual cases that actually speak in favor of this project, and I sincerely hope, therefore, with these changes that we adopt in this supplement that this project will actually be used to the maximum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55399	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55400	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Asylum Act, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. Number 540. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia have become an integral part of the final bill. In accordance with Article 169 of the Treaty on the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee and by Agent Furio Radin. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, is to be shown on the proposal of the Legislative Committee on Articles 12 and 46 of the first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55401	The first amendment of the Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55402	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendment 2 to Article 39?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55403	The amendment shall be accepted in part. The amendment shall be adopted in the amended form in relation to subparagraph 1 and shall be adopted in Article 54. The Law on Asylum, which was amended by the amendment of the Government, "positive" deletes the word "positive" and the word "decision" is added, "to which it meets the asylum requirement". It shall be accepted in that form.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55404	We accept. Thank you very much. You can just read to me what is now in your change. Well, normally I do, but I'd just like to know what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55405	This is the amendment of the Legislative Committee. Does the board accept? ... He was accepted in this form as the Secretary of State said. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please move on. Amendment 3 to Article 41?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55406	The Committee's amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55407	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendment 4 to Article 58?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55408	The Committee's amendment is not accepted. That amendment was not accepted as the amendment proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia was amended in Article 80. The Asylum Act, which also covers the proposed amendment of the Committee on Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55409	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55410	This proposal for Amendment 4 to the 58th article has been withdrawn. Amendment 5 to Article 70
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55411	The Committee's amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55412	It becomes an integral part of the bill. We have an amendment from Mr Furia Radina, who is on Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55413	The amendment is partly accepted in a way that uses the term "serious reasons on the basis of which it is considered", in the other part the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55414	Mr Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55415	Thank you very much. I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55416	It is accepted in the form of the State Secretary. Amendment 2 to Article 5 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55417	The amendment is partly accepted and is proposed to use the term "serious reasons on the basis of which it is considered". Amendments in the section relating to paragraph 4, as Council Directive 2004/83 EC does not norm the conduct of security services in the event of protection of national security, should not be amended.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55418	Mr Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55419	I'll take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55420	Thank you. Accepted in the form of the State Secretary. 3rd Amendment to Article 19
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55421	Amendment 3 is not accepted. The UNHCR representative or any other organisation engaged in the protection of the rights of refugees may propose to the authority leading the asylum procedure to request the competent social care centre to appoint a special custodian. As regards the amendment relating to the erasure of the word "based on medical documentation" or the replacement of the words "and after an appropriate medical examination" it should be stressed that the proposed legal provision does not prescribe the obligation to possess medical documentation. Depending on the circumstances of the specific case, it will be assessed whether a medical examination is necessary to accept the necessary medical documentation or to use the medical documentation the stranger has.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55422	Mr Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55423	Thank you very much. These are all the amendments I've taken over from the UNHCR. I would ask to vote on this amendment that does not accept the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55424	Thank you very much. Please raise your hands, who is for this amendment 3 that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4th Amendment to Article 20
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55425	The amendment was accepted through the amendment of the Government amending Article 28, meaning contained in the amendment to the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55426	Mr Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55427	Thank you very much. I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55428	He's retreating. The Fourth Amendment has been withdrawn. 5th Amendment to Article 21
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55429	The amendment is not accepted. In particular, part of the provision of Article 21 relating to the assessment of the specific needs of vulnerable groups in the exercise of their rights is in accordance with Council Directive 2003/9 EC. In addition, more precise norms would lead to an over-normation of the provision, given that there is no need to prescribe what is known, e.g. that the needs of vulnerable groups will be assessed by the competent health institutions, not by the Ministry of the Interior, which stems from our legal system and the laws governing health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55430	Mr Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55431	I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55432	What? The vote. Amendment 5 to Article 21 to a vote which the Government does not accept. Please, who's for this amendment to raise your hand. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 6th Amendment to Article 22
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55433	The amendment is partly accepted in a way that the words of the proposed amendment: "individual evaluations" are replaced by the words: "expert team assessments school each individual case".
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55434	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55435	He accepts. Mr Furio Radin accepts the State Secretary's statement. Amendment 7 of the same agent to Article 28
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55436	The amendment is not accepted. In fact, asylum seekers have the same social rights as Croatian citizens and will be subject to the provisions of the Social Care Act under the same conditions as for Croatian citizens. For example. An unaccompanied minor who has been granted asylum has been provided accommodation in a home for children until the 21st year of life. That Article is in accordance with Council Directive 2004/83 EC.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55437	Mr Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55438	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55439	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 8th Amendment to Article 33
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55440	The amendment shall be adopted with explicit reference to which the provision applies and would read: Article 48(6) shall read as follows: Decision on the granting of asylum referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article or the subsidiary protection referred to in paragraph 5 of this Article shall be adopted by the authority which decides on an asylum application. In the event of the merger of an asylum family and a foreigner under subsidiary protection carried out in accordance with the provisions of this law or the Act on Foreigners for a person who cannot obtain official documents proving a certain family relationship, it will be taken into account the circumstances on which it can be assessed whether such a relationship exists." The decision to reject family integration requests cannot be based solely on the fact that there are no official documents proving a certain family relationship. The amendment has been reformed by Radin, normatively different, but it is almost the same amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55441	Thank you. Mr Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55442	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55443	Accepting this... in Article 33, point (a) is replaced [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. Amendment 9 to Article 39 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55444	The amendment is not accepted. The inability of an asylum seekers to participate in the hearing shall not be solely for reasons of mental disturbance or disease as prescribed in Article 19 of the final proposal for a law relating to Article 27. The Asylum Act, but also in some other permanent circumstances, which cannot be influenced by an asylum seeker himself. As regards the sub-paragraph 10, a trustee and a trustee may, in each procedure, propose evidence or make statements, even in the case of asylum seekers, which may not be heard due to some permanent circumstances. Therefore, it is not necessary to prescribe that further. Those provisions are in line with Directive 2005/85 EC.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55445	Mr Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55446	Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55447	This amendment to article 39 requests a vote, and the Government does not accept it. Who is for this amendment please raise your hand. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55448	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55449	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 11th Amendment to Article 53
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55450	The amendment of Agent Radina was partially accepted through the amendment of the Government. Namely, that proposal for an amendment is contained in the amended format in the amendment proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, given that Council Directive 2001/55 EC prescribes a term of... We suggest that the term of serious reasons is used on the basis of which it is considered. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] So in the normative part he's accepted, only he's nomotechnically different.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55451	I accept in this form.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55452	He's giving up, so he's accepted this in terms of the government's amendment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55453	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55454	It becomes an integral part of the bill. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Asylum Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. Please, let's get involved and vote on the final proposal for an asylum law. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 109 votes for, 3 abstentions and 1 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55455	We move to the 8th point of the agenda, which is - - The final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe on the amendments and additions to the Framework Treaty on the Loan between the Council of Europe Development Bank and the Republic of Croatia concerning the F/P 1498 (2004) - the project of building facilities of municipal and social infrastructure on Croatian islands, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 555 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain his opinion? Yeah. Dear Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55456	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. So just a few words and related to this project, so the project of municipal and social infrastructure facilities on Croatian islands has practically since 2004, which defined 4 components. The first municipal infrastructure, water supply and disposal in terms of which it is planned to build only primary municipal infrastructure, then social care, improving health care and improving the educational process. This project was, in fact, covered by the original project document, the basis of which the project was also accepted by the total estimated cost of EUR 386,7 million. In the course of the talks and then negotiations with the Council of Europe's Development Bank, a component of the local self-government units was subsequently included in terms of funding for their participation in the construction of the so-called ‘EU’. secondary municipal infrastructure totalling 383.1 million kuna. In fact, it was original and intended, however, during the implementation and implementation of the project of the local self-government unit in a particular part they could not monitor the implementation of this project itself. And we have actually come into a situation that, after 60% of the funds used and withdrawn, the Council of Europe Development Bank in some way comes into a situation to stop further implementation of the project because it was actually necessary to go with the amendments and additions, and at this point we are doing so now. What exactly is proposed? So we're going to go back to that original project document and stay the original four components as defined. Thus, the state budget and the Council of Europe Development Bank should be participated in equal proportions of 50% each, so that the total amount remains as originally foreseen, i.e. 386.7 million kuna. These amendments are also proposed in view of this suspension of one part of the withdrawal of funds and to extend the deadline for the completion of the project at the end of 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55457	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Okay. I'm opening a debate. We move first to the club debate, on behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55458	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Loan Agreement relating to a project for the construction of municipal and social infrastructure on the Croatian Islands which we call the CEP 4. The Treaty itself as the State Secretary mentioned earlier was signed in December 2004 and when it was discussed with the Bank about the implementation of the project the original idea was that one half of the project was financed from the state budget and that the second half of the project was financed by the Council of Europe's Development Bank. During the preparation and nomination of all those individual projects by the local self-government unit and when it has been established that the basic infrastructure was socially or communally necessary several other first-row infrastructure operations relating to secondary infrastructure. It has been established that the project will be backed up and the funds that will be allocated by units of local self-government, i.e. municipal companies, units of local self-government. And they should have realised the total amount of 383 million kuna through this project. However, as the project itself financed by the loans and state budget funds went faster than the fiscal opportunities of local self-government units through the implementation of the project, it was found that the units of local self-government on the islands, and they were generally fiscally where and where less than the possibilities resulting from the project itself financed by the bank and the state budget, as the State Secretary mentioned earlier, then it was found through the talks with the bank that it was necessary to return to that original idea that the total was financed solely by the loans and resources of the state budget. This project of building municipal and social infrastructure on Croatian islands is the third most important state project on Croatian islands that has been designed and implemented since the establishment of an independent and sovereign Croatian state. If it is known that the first basic strategic project was the National Programme for Sustainable Development of Croatian Islands in 1997, and it was later adopted as an instrument of implementation by the Law on Islands of 1999, then this project of municipal and social infrastructure on Croatian islands is, in any case, the most constituent project to assist the development of Croatian islands and in the part of the construction of municipal infrastructure and in the part of the construction of social infrastructure. The project itself contains 4 components. The first component is a component of the municipal infrastructure containing two sub-components. Sub-component of the water supply of Croatian islands. In this sense 21 water system construction projects on Croatian islands have been implemented so far. And a project to build a wastewater disposal system involving 22 projects to build a wastewater disposal system. In addition, 9 retirement homes were built through the improvement of the social care system on Croatian islands through this project. Furthermore, 33 healthcare facilities, either health homes or hospitals on Croatian islands were built in the health care sub-component. And through the sub-component of improving the educational process, 20 projects were built on remote poorly populated and small Croatian islands, either primary schools, kindergartens, etc. So, through the project itself, a total of 105 projects have been realized to date. And the total value so far has been realized is 343 million kuna. So far, almost 90% of the project has been implemented and, as the secretary of state has already mentioned, these amendments and additions to the Borrowing Act should extend this deadline for another year, in order to implement the remaining projects that have not been implemented in that year. What is also important to mention when it comes to the CEP4 project is the fact that through its realization it is possible for units of local self-government on the islands that are underdeveloped, small, which do not have a strong municipal administration, that through the realisation of the project and now the project of public procurement is being implemented, because practically many of these units of local self-government are practically reduced with demanding projects around their realisation, designation, etc., etc. So to conclude, this project is, as I said before, very much aided in the development of Croatian islands. I dare say that it has greatly helped all aspects of life on islands and thus contributes to the demographic restoration of Croatian islands and in the section relating to health care, social care, education on Croatian islands. But first of all, it is most done through this project on the water supply system of Croatian islands and on the environmental protection system through the construction of numerous wastewater disposal systems. In addition to all the other projects financed from the state budget, regardless of the CEP4 project, which I say is part of the relying on the loan of the Council of Europe Development Bank, I can say that it was the time this project was spent during the most intense construction of buildings on Croatian islands, because in addition to these 100 projects that I mentioned earlier, a number of projects were built, investments in islands ports, in the construction of roads on Croatian islands and all other objects that mean a clear life for Croatian islands. So here in this sense I can say that this period for the last 6 years is really a period of extremely intense construction and care for the Croatian islands. So here in this sense, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55459	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's esteemed representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55460	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will start by saying that the HNS-HSU club will support these changes to the framework contract with the Council of Europe Development Bank, but would like to warn of five particulars from which two problems arise. First of all, let's repeat what happened. On 15 December 2004, our Government concluded with the Council of Europe Development Bank a framework loan agreement on investments that were mentioned earlier. Then, during the implementation of the project of the unit of local self-government that was partners in the implementation of these projects, they could not financially monitor these projects, and what happens is that the Council of Europe Development Bank participated on paper with more than 25% of the funds and it had no obligation to go further and it interrupted clearly, the withdrawal of funds from Strasbourg and we are then in one stalemate. The government also proposes that this year, at the beginning of the year, the finance minister sign an additional agreement amending the framework contract and propose to exclude units of local self-government from the package and essentially fall exclusively to the Council of Europe Development Bank and the Croatian Government at 50%:50%, giving, of course, the possibility to withdraw additional funds and move towards further implementation of the project. What clearly appears here as something that should have been incorporated into the contract and what has been done is that it is also prolonging the timing of the project itself because we have lost relatively much time. Now, colleagues and colleagues, the HNS-HSU club warns of two problems. Several units of local self-government are not in the system, are not participating as partners. It is our question to those who will in any way further regulate and implement these projects in which the government will in general consult local self-government units, whether they will have any impact in the future on these various content and programmes that are intended to be financed, because if only the Government will then there is always doubt that it will go, this help down in line with certain havens, that it is party logic and logic of this or that kind. Clearly, it is our request that this be the logic of the priorities, the logic of the real needs of the Croatian islands, and thus, in future, the question of the financing of individual projects in one, second, third and fourth spheres, as we have seen here from the material. Another problem or lesson that we need to learn from this example is the fact that after a year and two days the local self-government unit has proved incompetent, financially unable to monitor and participate in these projects. So, when it comes to millions, we had a situation where local self-government units had to fall out of the game. Our colleagues and colleagues, we warn, what will happen tomorrow when we withdraw the European Union's funds, and by 2013 we are destined for 20 billion kuna. In order to withdraw 20 billion kuna, you have to give your own 3, 4, 5 billion, depending on the type of project. We're wondering how we're going to help the county then... regional development, by which logic because the county has no money, and Croatia if it does not use these funds then we did not do well, then we really lost what we were meant to do, what can truly help us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know and we warn, sure that recession is a moment when we need to think carefully about what our priorities are. Is this some kind of infrastructure at the border that the European Union needs to build or is it the employment of people who are hungry and who are at work. Therefore, it is very difficult to decide there, but if we are forced to cover our participation in future European projects and withdrawing that money, then it is not a quality long-term solution. And that's why the HNS Club, HSU, warns of these two problems and we ask the proponents to seriously consider ways to avoid possible problems with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55461	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55462	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. The SDP club will also support this bill. And since, of course, the topic of the Croatian islands to me, even in the agenda of our session, we also have a report on the implementation of the Law on Islands, so it will be an opportunity to say more about the politics of the state towards the islands. In addition, there is only a representative of the Ministry of Finance, so he might not be able to answer us about some of the things you might need to tell us about politics and the island. I do not share the concern of fellow Doric, who expressed his skepticism, the choice of criteria since the units of local self-government do not participate that the government will choose projects because it seems to me that this government will not have a long chance to choose projects, so it should not be so skeptical. Also, as regards the 4 components that the construction projects of municipal infrastructure and social infrastructure facilities on Croatian islands have. So these are municipal infrastructures, water supply and disposal, social care, improvement of health care, improvement of the educational process. The last two items are actually something that is a permanent problem at least as far as the island is concerned in Central Dalmatia. So, health care and the educational process. Two examples of very fresh ones, so the units of local self-government on the island of Hvar, also on other islands for several years have been unsuccessfully trying to ask the county to carry out its legal obligation in the Health Protection Act until last year, to establish island health homes, and then when the counties didn't do so, then I guess the Government decided, by a less resistance line, to make the county a legal obligation and end it, and now we have only the possibility. As for the promotion of the educational process, the latest example is abolished by the Jelsa high school and no matter what the students are invited to do, so to apply for the professions that the school was doing. So one thing that's declarative is what's really going on is another. And of course what's most interesting about the 2009 budget as one of the signs of government waste was that they were too many items. So it was a public perception. They can even defend the government a little bit, that large items are on the budget, that large amounts are on the budget items concerning the Croatian islands. And in this crisis, the recession of the budget items was reduced by more than half, i.e. the current funds were therefore doubled compared to 2007. That's why it's kind of sad to talk about, so this topic right now. So there's a tourist season ahead that we all hope will be good, of course. Most of us here will visit Croatian islands during the summer. But I would also like most of us to be present on Croatian islands and in other parts of the year. That's why it looks so different than during the summer. When mail travels six days from land to islands, so when you can no longer communicate normally with this type of communication, when ferry lines are cut due to savings. The question is how many tunnels can be painted for one ferry line less and when, therefore, many things that shouldn't be done, then declarative support for these projects, this law is good anyway. We will also support this law, but we warn therefore that the islanders should not bear more than others the burden of crisis and recession, which is exactly what is happening. My colleagues and colleagues, therefore, hope that if this law does not improve, it will at least prevent the deterioration of life on the Croatian islands of the SDP club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55463	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Agent Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55464	Well, I would correct, although not the subject of this point, but I would correct the assumption that Mr. Bauk's representative said, and that's what I'm going to say, an example of a unique home of health, a county home of the health of the Primorje-Gorski County, where Mr. Mayor Zlatko Komadin, regardless of the law he's committed, never allowed to be singled out, so in units of local self-government like the islands of Mali Lošinj, Rab, etc. to single out these health homes as a special whole that we asked for, and the mayor kept refusing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55465	Comrade Cappelly, this is a school example of not correcting an incorrect quote. You weren't correcting any incorrect allegations. Comment one. And you have a word right away. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55466	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Council of Europe Development Bank, based in Strasbourg and administrative in Paris, is therefore one of the oldest international financial institutions in Europe. The CEB therefore operates as a multilateral development bank that brings together 40 member states. Direct relations of the Republic of Croatia with the Development Bank were established in early '92. the year, i.e. before the reception of the Republic of Croatia into the membership of the Council of Europe. The government of the Republic of Croatia then focused its activities on regulation of relations, building best co-operation with the specific financial institution. Therefore, which has given support to European countries in addressing not only humanitarian but social and development problems. This law confirms the contract, namely between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank on amendments and additions to the loan framework agreement between the Council of Europe Development Bank and the Republic of Croatia concerning the project of building facilities of municipal, social infrastructure on Croatian islands. The project consists therefore of several components, municipal infrastructure, water supply and disposal within which it is planned to build exclusively primary municipal infrastructure, social care, health care improvements and improve the educational process. According to the project document on the basis of which the project was accepted total estimated costs, therefore some 386.7 million kuna are somewhere. The document planned to finance 50% of the total costs, i.e. 193 million kuna, from the loan of CEB, and 50% also around, i.e. 193,35 million kuna from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. The full function will be achieved by building a secondary municipal infrastructure financed by local self-government units. The estimated total costs are therefore the construction of secondary municipal infrastructure, amounting to €383.1 million and have not been nominated for the loan of CEB. In the event of negotiations for the conclusion of the loan framework agreement, in order to comply with the CEB rules concerning the monitoring of the impact of the project, the CEB’s request includes the definition of the scope, i.e. the total estimated cost of the project, including the financing of the units of local self-government and others. The latter resulted in the financing structure of the CEB project 25%, the state budget 25%, and units of local self-government and the other 50%. During the implementation of the project of the unit of local self-government and others could not therefore monitor this dynamic financing of the project which led to the disturbance of the funding ratio in such a way that the share of CEB funds in the implementation of the project and also the share of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia increased above the established 25% increase in relative amounts of the total absolute amount of the CEB loan. Also due to the disturbances, the CEB's funding ratio has temporarily halted further withdrawals of loan funds, thus preventing the completion of the project within the time period agreed with the CEB. Therefore, the CEB rules regarding the monitoring of the project require the same funding dynamics from the bank and local ones, i.e. and all sources, and the full functionality of all components after the completion of the project, so on the proposal of the CEB, and on the basis of the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 8 May 2008, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure which is responsible for the implementation of the CEB project and the Ministry of Finance have approached the development of this proposal to approve the change in the definition of the total estimated costs of the project and the structure and the ratio of financing in order to change this relationship. Therefore, the Amending and Supplements Agreement is only amended as Appendix 1. The loan framework contract, which defines the total estimated cost of the project, is therefore 50:50%. In this way, the definition includes, i.e. the total estimated cost of the project, the funds of the units of local self-government and others, which is, it formalises the original idea of the Croatian side as important, i.e. the plan for units of local self-government and others depending on their financial capacities to participate in the implementation of activities related to the construction of secondary municipal infrastructure, unrelated to the construction of primary municipal infrastructure, which is therefore financed by CEB funds and the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Due to the delays in the implementation of the project caused by the lack of loan funds until the entry into force of this Treaty on Amendments and Supplements, with the addition of the 1st Treaty, the issue of amendments and additions is resolved, a new deadline is set, which is the completion of the project that will be completed by the end of 2011. In view of the nature of the process of confirming international contracts, which also formally expresses its willingness to be bound by an already signed international contract, as well as the fact that, at this stage of the procedure, they are generally unable to amend or supplement the text of the international contract, it is therefore proposed to adopt this draft law in an urgent procedure, uniting the first and second readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55467	Thank you. Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55468	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. I will mention that the project of building municipal and social infrastructure facilities on Croatian islands has been accepted by the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which means in 2004 it has been implemented since 19 July 2005 and consists of four components, municipal infrastructure, social and improvement of health care, as well as improvement of the educational process. I think that this occasion should also be mentioned that since 1998 the Republic of Croatia has concluded with the Council of Europe Development Bank a total of 12 direct loans of 2.2 billion kuna to finance projects, namely health infrastructures and health institutions, four projects of building and rebuilding schools, three housing care of exiles, two projects of building social municipal infrastructure on Croatian islands, which is the topic today, and the restoration of cultural heritage of two projects. And here is another information that three loans of 108m euros are also intended for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, signed between the HABOR and the Council of Europe's Development Bank, with the guarantee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As regards the project of building municipal and social infrastructure on Croatian islands, according to the project document on which the project was also adopted, the estimated costs were 386.7 million kuna, 50% of the costs and 193,3 million kuna respectively are financed from the loan of the Council of Europe Development Bank, and the rest in the same amount is provided by the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. During the negotiations for the conclusion of the Framework Agreement, and in order to comply with the rules of the Council of Europe Development Bank relating to the monitoring of the impact of the projects, at the request of the CEB, the total estimated cost of the project is included and the financial resources of the units of local self-government and others needed to establish the full establishment of system functions, in the first instance of decommissioning and water supply projects. This, regardless of the non-binding role of local self-government units in the project, led to a disturbance in the project financing structure, i.e. a deviation from the framework agreement and a temporary suspension of the withdrawal of funds from loans, which also made it impossible to complete the project within the agreed or agreed deadlines. This Treaty therefore amends Appendix 1. The loan framework contract, which redefines the scope and total estimated costs for the purpose of exempting the estimated costs of local self-government units and others from the total estimated costs, and the amount of the 193,3 million kuna loan remains unchanged, the government budget commitments with the same amount also, and the ratio of 50:50 remains the same. Due to delays, the deadlines for withdrawal until the end of 2011, and for reasons of simpler and more accurate monitoring of the progress of the project, are also given new tables. The urgency of the procedure is also justified by the continuation and completion of this praiseworthy project, meaning for all Croatian islands. Here are my colleagues and colleagues, for example, using funds from this programme on Croatian islands belonging to Zadar County, to show how funds are used when strategic planning documents are made, means regional operational programmes, but also programmes for the overall development of units of local self-government, when projects are prepared and when the running procedure is harmonised, means when all levels work. Since the beginning of this programme, since 2004, only the islands of Zadar's most exact county have been agreed by 174 million kunas, and so far it has paid 126.6 million kuna. And in drain systems, wastewater treatment, sewer systems. Through 15 projects, 50 million kunas were invested on three Zadar islands. On the island of Ugljan Preko in Kalim Ugljan, Vir 2, on the island of Pag 2 projects. For water supply systems, desalination systems have agreed 17 projects totalling 60.5 million kuna, and 30.3 million kuna has been spent. On the island of Ugljan 6 projects, Long Island 3, Vir 2, Pasman 2 and the remotest Zadar islands 4 projects. The social institutions invested 7 million kuna for the adaptation of the old school into facilities for older and powerless people on Ugljan. In school facilities means to rehabilitate and equip district schools in Premuda, Silba, Velo Iž, Istu, Olib, as well as build new schools spent 23.2 million kuna. In 15 health care facilities, 15.1 million kuna have been contracted for the construction of what is being built, and 13.6 million kuna has been invested so far. Here are almost every inhabited island of Zadar County, and there are 17 of them means either adaptation or construction of mother hospitals, meaning in Božava, Ugljan, Lukaran, Silbi, Invisibles, Vir, and regional ambulances in Luka on Long Island, Velo Rat, Verunić, Zaglav, on Long Island, Veloj Rada, Premuda, Rivnja, Sestrunja and Zapuntel. It is indisputable that the implementation of this programme has improved the quality of life of our islanders in the area of the inhabited islands of Zadar County, as well as other Croatian islands, and over 122 thousand of them through the construction means both municipal and social, social island infrastructures gave them more accessible education, better health care and social care. But it has also achieved the objective of defined rules of the Council of Europe Development Bank. I will remind you colleagues and colleagues that the Council of Europe Development Bank is a specific and only international institution which is the main area of action of financing, at the same time as social and development projects. And you'll agree with me exactly the kind of projects our islands need. I certainly support this proposal of the Treaty Confirmation Act, as it will speed up the completion of the agreed projects and thus make life on the islands even more quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55469	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55470	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So there's no confusion about what's going on here. This is about amendments and additions to the loan framework contract, because we were neither our unit of local self-government nor the government to implement this programme. That's fair and plain, I said State Secretary. And here, my colleague Marinović spoke about some other projects that are well realized, but we also need a loan like this. It's not about any gift, because we weren't frames or free funds to take advantage of. Just to point out that the SAPARD has been used in only 48%, and our agricultural estates in the Zadra hinterland are standing unprocessed, standing on the slopes. It is an entirely administrative failure for Croatia to assist units of local self-government, an inadequate domestic component that must monitor these programmes. However, it was of little use. These are our big misses. And there's an agency we don't know, we have no idea what people the government hired who have decent salaries, who are just set up to implement such programs, or units of local self-government, legal persons, or even natural persons. They help citizens realise their programs. This is about the contract, so it's about the loan. We haven't been able to realize it. The question arises, what damage did we suffer? Instead of building water lines, infrastructures, social buildings all that our islands need so much that it continues to move the population, it has not been done. What's the fee? So, not that we've had the benefit, but probably the damage. Of course now he's trying to save these changes and supplements what he's given to save. And did something happen in the meantime except we're willing to write a contract, are we ready to make it happen? It's the same as your debtor, he's not able to pay the believer back, so he's going to write another additional contract, annex when it's going to be expanded, and when he's going to pay back his debt. What happened in the meantime? We haven't heard that here and whether the government has done anything in one preparedness to make these funds real. Because I repeat, it's a loan, it's a loan that needs to be paid with interest, with a refund. Of course they're good. Now the question arises how much we are equipped in all of this. Croatian country thousands of islands, and our islands each behind us in a sea of problems. The surrounded sea of trouble. Our Zadar islands continue to be largely evicted, these are nursing households. We remember in 2004, 2005 big government projects, we don't sell out our island, we'll save the coast, the coast, our islands. There's a first-time institute in place. I wonder what the state bought so it wouldn't come to the sale of the real first buy? In how many cases has the first purchase right on the islands been applied? I'm saying she didn't buy a single meter. But the sale goes, goes because people can't live, so they sell out their fatherland, their grandfatherhood. They're just forced to do that. From this project where colleagues have already spoken, it's really something that is most needed by our islands, it's this communal infrastructure, water supply, draining. Our islands are thirsty. So with this project in this section that the colleague was talking about, these are part of the islands that are in the integral part of the city of Zadar, but the others here did nothing and could benefit greatly from this programme if that realization occurs. The issue of social care on our islands is also of great importance. That's what I'm saying, I repeat, mostly on our islands here in the Zadar area are nursing households. Such institutions are absolutely necessary. Units of local self-government powerless without any help, and whenever something is built and built, there is always money for something that will look better, perhaps even more attractive to tourists and only on appearance, and not on any investment that would end up being spent. So, something that citizens need first of all. The same is the promotion of health care. That's where doctors check in once a week. The question now is how long and how long will that take? So when we talk about confirming the law, about confirming this contract, then we need to be honest and say that we are essentially correcting our incompetence and I repeat, the question is how much in the meantime we're aware of this problem, how much we're actually willing to go into this realisation because this, I repeat, is not just the means that will then fail as we failed the huge resources from the SAPARD program, so the IPA programs and other programs because we weren't able to strengthen and secure the domestic component. To be clear, it is the domestic resources that must be invested in this programme in order for the European Union to take our seriousness at all. Likewise, I repeat, if we are not able to do this, we will only have damage because we will have to pay the costs, but of course if they come to the realization of these islands, our people on the islands can profit. Here we see from the reasoning of this law how many counties or units of local self-government would be willing to enter into this entry and what means of withdrawing. It would be good here by the secretary of state to tell us openly and to commend the units of local self-government that have already done so, who are ready, and those who have been obliged to do so and who have not done so for what reasons. And there's room and room for the government to help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55471	Thank you. Six corrections, one replica. First Mr. Representative Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55472	I should correct Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović's whole speech because everything she said was not true. The first thing she stated in her speech, that this project was late and that we were prolonging it because of the inability of the Croatian government and the local self-government unit on Croatian islands that did not know it and could not realize it. ... That's not true. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It is true that 90% of the project has been implemented so far, 386 million kuna has been realised, 105 buildings have been built on Croatian islands for which space-planning documentation is to be carried out, building permits, public procurement procedures and building and obtaining administrative permission. I say, up until now 90% and 105 projects have been implemented precisely because of the ability of the Croatian government and the ability of local self-government units on islands that have managed to realise it. There are 5% of the projects left for which these changes to the framework agreement extend the deadline for another year so that the remaining 10% can be realised. That's one thing. And another thing when it comes to investing in Croatian islands is never again invested on Croatian islands, which in the last six years. 9.2 billion were invested, but we'll talk more about it when there's a report on the implementation and effects of the Island Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55473	Ms. Nevenka Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55474	I'm correcting the incorrect quote of a colleague who said, she mentioned SAPARD even though the SAPARD doesn't have much to do with this project. counterpart Marinovic, from the SAPARD Zadar County programme, used the most funds of all counties. More than 30 million kunas have gone to agricultural businesses in Zadar County. Another false assumption is that nothing was done. Like this, Zadar islands and those belonging to the City of Zadar and others, but all Croatian islands were never closer to the mainland than they are now, they were never less thirsty than they are now, and for the first time a slow move from the island of Zadar County was slowed down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55475	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Loan Agreement between the Development Bank of the Council of Europe of the Republic of Croatia relating to the F/P 1498 (2004) – a project to build facilities of municipal and social infrastructure on Croatian islands. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 555. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on this final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank adopted by a majority of 108 votes in favour of, 2 abstentions, nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55476	We move to the next point - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 547. The Proposer is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Education, Science and Culture, Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, Development and Reconstruction and the Committee on Tourism. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club. Proposer representative Zoran Šikic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55477	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Goods with the final proposal of the Law under the Economic Recovery Programme, which refers to the measure of fiscal policy relating to the reduction, i.e. the removal of non-taxable giving in the context of this law to the reduction of the monumental rent. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law first reduce the amount of the monumental rent, as it is proposed to amount from one to seven kuna, instead of a valid amount of three to ten kuna per metre of square useful area. Furthermore, it will be possible for the bonds of payment of the monumental rent to pay the monumental rent on one basis only, i.e. The city of Zagreb, the city and the municipality are provided with a legal basis to exempt from paying the monumental rent per square metre of useful area of business space. Physical and legal persons already paying the monumental rent on the basis of carrying out economic activities according to the national classification of activities. In addition to users of cultural concessions, payment of the monumental rent per square metre of useful area of business space and natural and legal persons carrying out processing or production activities as a major activity will be free. Furthermore, the current non-compliance of the law with the national classification of activities will be eliminated. The change is estimated to lead to a reduction in the total amount of the monumental rent by about 50% at the annual level. The entry into force of this law is scheduled for 1 October 2010. All comments made and discussions conducted on committees have been carefully considered. I can now say, on behalf of the promoter, that the Government accepts the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives, which refers to a more precise definition of payment of the monumental rent compared to the classification of the activity, and also that the Proposer accepts the conclusion of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, which gives the Ministry of Culture the obligation to prepare either new amendments and supplement or new legislation, and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to refer to the procedure by the end of the year a law that will further define this problem, and since otherwise the intensity is in the plan, given that the cultural heritage strategy, the amendments and the addition of this law, which, in relation to the protection of the wholes and monuments, will be even more systematically regulated and introduced in this context and the memorial rental will be one more specifically, when it comes to the boundaries, when it comes to the boundaries, and in relation to the new ways that we expect to improve economic conditions. With this in mind, I ask you to support the amendments and supplement this law, and to hold them through debate and later finally vote to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55478	Thank you. Committees, legislation, education, science and culture, final and regional (regional) self-government, development and reconstruction, tourism. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Ms. solara Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55479	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. To bring our viewers closer together, that's where they're tracking the transfer right now, which is actually rent, so I'm just going to quote something. If Vinci had painted only one Mona Lisa, I believe you all know, so if we could pay for her occasional use, we'd be paying rent. So what has already been done since 2003 is a monumental rent, and within the framework of the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. On 19 April this year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia presented an economic recovery programme, and in its framework, related to the development of fiscal policy measures relating to the reduction, i.e. the removal of non-taxable duties, the Ministry of Culture was obliged to carry out activities relating to the reduction of the memorial rent. Of course, this is also the reason why it is necessary to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. Once again, I will remind the proposed amendments and additions will be abolished the obligation to pay a fee of 10% of the sales price of the product for the use of the replica of the cultural goods or its recognizable works in photography, labels, e.g. badges, souvenirs, publications and other printing, clothing or other items. The obligation to pay the fee of a thousand kuna, which so far was before the first publication for any kind of promotional material for legal or natural persons, which he used in his own promotion, so on film, video, poster, photography or other subject, recognizable cultural good or its recognizable part. The same will reduce the amount of monumental rent that has so far ranged from 3 to 10 kuna, up to 7 per metre of four useful surfaces, of course, will make the cities themselves. It will be possible for bonds to pay the monumental rent, to pay the monumental rent on one basis only, i.e. The city of Zagreb, the city and the municipality is provided with such a legal basis to exempt them from paying a monumental rent per square metre of useful area of the business space of the natural and legal person who already pays the monumental rent on the basis of carrying out economic or other activities, as we have already heard according to the national classification of activities. In addition to the beneficiary of the concession set out in Article 43c(1), payment of the monumental rent per square metre of useful area of business space and natural and legal persons carrying out processing and production activities will be free. What is important is that this change will lead to a reduction in the total amount of the monumental rent by about 50%, just to remind myself that the total income of the 2009 monumental rent was 245 million kuna, so a little more than 120 million kuna will remain the economy, in 52 cities in the Republic of Croatia, where there were grounds for law enforcement. This is only one in a series of measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia reduces one of the tax duties, and this was once again outlined in the economic recovery programme. The law will only remind me of the distribution of collected monumental rents, which is 60% in favour of the city or municipality in whose area the rent is collected and 40% in favour of the state budget, i.e. at the expense of the Ministry of Culture. We can say that the Institute of Monuments gradually entered Croatian practice and showed the expected results. In the environments that immediately introduced this form of fundraising, a systematic restoration of protected heritage began, and the public in those places positively assessed the process. Many cities and municipalities, by introducing a monumental rent, have also shown concern about the protected cultural heritage that exists in the area of their jurisdiction. Therefore, payment will be reduced, but money will remain for protected cultural heritage, and the HDZ club will support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55480	Thank you. HSS representative's club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55481	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party's Club will support the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, which reduces the allocations for the monumental rent and thus the revenue of the budget by about 50%, as outlined in the programme of economic recovery of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is estimated to be a reduction of around 120 million kuna. The amendments to this law suggest reducing the amount of monumental rent to one to 7 kuna per square metre of useful area, from current 3 to 10 kuna. It is also possible for bonds of monumental rent to pay the rent on one basis only, and the payment of the monumental rent based on the use and promotion of cultural goods such as the use of a replica of a cultural good, for example on clothing items, in videos, photographs and the like. Renta is charged to preserve and restore cultural heritage, and the height and method of collecting the rent determines local self-government, depending on the area in which the property is protected and at which the degree of protection is. For example, in the city of Zagreb's 2010 budget before these amendments and the addition of the law, it was planned to collect 78.9 million kuna for the monumental rent, of which 40.1 million were planned for capital donations and for the arrangement of the fronts, and for the preservation of cultural goods of public importance 38.8 million kuna. The amendments to this law and those amounts will be reduced. The memorial rent was based on the current law of noose around the neck of traditional crafts, as well as hotels in Croatia. Both are aware of the importance of preserving cultural heritage especially in the touristic sense, but they hold to the unjust ways of calculating and collecting monumental rents, because they are already burdened with numerous parafiscal duties, and it was necessary to make amendments and additions to this law from this aspect. So far, economic operators have been obliged to pay a monumental rent under the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, i.e. 0.05% of the total income achieved by carrying out their activities. If more activities are carried out in the cultural good itself or in the area of protected cultural and historical integrity, they pay rent towards the surface of the space they use. These amendments allow the city of Zagreb, cities and municipalities to exempt from paying the monumental rent per square metre, useful areas of business space, natural and legal persons who already pay the monumental rent based on the performance of economic and other activities according to national classification activities. By that decision, the economic operators that are bonds of payment of the monumental rent will pay the monumental rent on one basis only, which we at the HSS Club welcome. Of the 80 cities that collect the monumental rent of every city's headship, in this case, now that the city council's laws have been amended, it independently decides on how to collect and the height of the monumental rent. The income from the monumental rent is paid 60% in favour of the city or municipality in which the rent is collected and 40% in favour of the state budget for the achievement of the National Programme for the Protection of Cultural Goods. The state pays its share of money collected from the monumental rent to preserve cultural goods in areas that have not been developed economically, such as the city of Vukovar, which was severely injured in the war. Finally, the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods will end the payment of the monumental rent based on and the use of promotion of cultural goods, reduce the amount of the monumental rent, allow the bonds of payment of the monumental rent to be paid on one basis only. In addition to the beneficiaries of the concession on cultural goods, payment of the monumental rent under Article 114 of the natural and legal person performing the processing or production activity as a major activity will be released. And we at the HSS Club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55482	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55483	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The government has proposed to reduce a number of parafiscal duties as part of the economic recovery programme. Yesterday we saw that we have about 240 different parafiscal inducements to collect around 12 billion kunas a year. And no doubt, the government has the right to enter that area, and it should also look for savings opportunities. Yesterday we discussed the memberships of tourist communities, today about the monumental rent. We at the HNS Club, HSU alone are a little concerned about the priorities and order we went to. Namely, if Croatia realizes 20% of gross social product through tourism and cultural tourism is a good segment of this activity, then the question is whether we started drinking the deepest branch on which we are sitting? That's a big question. The government proposes to cut the monumental rent by about 50%, so that we will first and foremost please our colleagues and colleagues to craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who have often appeared and rebelled, that even when they pay the lowest rate of the monumental rent of two kunas, it is a lot and that such a reduction means a lot to them. However, the fact is that monumental rent is practically the only source of funds that can be used for the purpose of preserving cultural heritage in many municipalities and cities, and we understand that we need to carefully balance it out so that we do no more damage than benefits. What colleagues and colleagues should also say is that the boundaries of protected cultural and historical units have not been determined by units of local self-government but have been done by conservation services of the Ministry of Culture. There were no adequate arrangements, so often it happened that this area was too wide-ranging and that there were often times paid monumental rents and in those areas where there were no concrete monumental objects or protected building units at all. If these funds, and they were significant for many municipalities and cities, then let us put our colleagues and colleagues in a specific position of one Dubrovnik, Pula, Trogir, Split, Rovinj, Varazdin, Osijek, Zagreb. These cities will run out of very significant resources. Is this going to cause the need for budget rebalancing in some municipalities and cities? We don't know, but it's possible we could lead to that. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, the position of the HNS Club, the HSU, is that we will support this proposal, but we believe that this can and must be an only temporary measure. And we particularly support the proposal of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture that the Government and the Ministry of Culture immediately approach the creation of a new sustainable model of monumental rent in order to preserve the national cultural heritage that we need to use for decades and centuries as something that we must praise in truth and from which we can expand our economic offers in tourism and increase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55484	Thank you. SDP representative club Mr Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55485	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Let's first correct a few things that have been heard here, which are completely out of the real context. First, about what it means and who complains. Let's see who complains first. Those who therefore wish to be in the monument and in the heart of Trogir complain, but they will not pass on what is in the heart of Trogir and there they are doing to their obligation to that heart of Trogir. May the Trogirans forgive me, no one may complain there, but everywhere is. Secondly, how much of these are the funds from which the economy and small and small entrepreneurship will flourish, etc. Come on, please, no one calculated that. It is such insignificant means that it only means something as a total, and does not mean to carry out activities in a monument of culture almost nothing because at least it means that it is doing it as much as it should, much less than what it does there. It's not the monumental place of cultural monuments to anyone, it's not from those who work there and do something there, it's from generations, many generations ago that they created it. It belongs to the base, it doesn't belong to the upgrade, that's what the country exists from, of which there is a nation, of which there is a society, on which it is based, where its identity is, etc., etc. Now that we at least know in principle that there are at least different approaches to what we're going to consider cultural heritage, and how we're going to manipulate and say complete, I mean deplaced things about relations between this and production, to go a little bit different by reading what's proposed here. The first thing that's proposed is to completely eliminate any contact between those who want to be through a monument, through some cultural monument, in some way advertised because so far, as it is said here, there has been no results. The fact is that it didn't give any results, but instead of looking for an exit in order to see how it's going to charge now it's being downloaded. So one principle mark is removed from the law that says that if someone uses a monument of culture one way or another, a rapist cathedral, the Church of St. Donat or I don't know what in my own promotion of your product, something needs to be given for it. It's a principle that's inexplicable because it comes from the logic of functioning itself. You pay copyright, if they're not extinct, I don't know everything to whom, and what our heritage represents, what it's supposed to be, we're going to end it now, so we're going to end it. The rent's dropping, so we can talk about it. They're exempt, so if you pay for one axis, you don't have to do it the other. The processing or production activities are excluded and I am very interested in what are large and serious processing and production activities in the monument of culture. Mr. Doric said well, there was abuse with everything and where there are cultural monuments. That was really an abuse. But it can't be, it's a groundless debate that in the very monument that's determined the way the conservators are supposed to determine it, that there's no relationship between the action in that monument of culture and what's being paid for it. It's called rent, it's an obligation. It's not a parafiscal imposition, it's not an imposition at all because those who use it know well that they want it, that they want to use it, but it's called coercion. And in the general flood of this termology, let's take a look at how serious things are, not what's heard from the two clubs that spoke before me, with the exception of Mr. Doric. First of all, the subject matter of this law is the subject of consensus. The Law on Monumental Rent was passed here by the votes of all parties, including HDZ and SDP, because it should have served to improve the situation in one of the vital elements of the survival of the material and therefore also the spiritual culture of the country, to provide additional funds for the existing budgets from which we will not give up as a state to take care of the rapist cathedral, the Church of St. Presidents, the Euphras basilica in Poreč, but Poreč, Rab, Zadar or I don't know who has the means to do what the real state can't guarantee, to order the city, to offices the central parts, etc., etc. What happened? Something I think happened and why I feel bad for even proposing that law in the first place, and then he was accepted. It happened that the protection of monuments, monumental heritage, moved from fiscal obligation to parafiscal, and is now being abolished as parafiscal. Standard financing for the protection of cultural monuments was about 130 million a year, so even at the time of HDZ authorities and at a time earlier it was even something more than not important. Let's say it was the bottom line that was when it was standard, 130 million. It happened in the 29th, budgets fell to 27 million, and now they're at 30 million. That means the budgets dropped by 80%, 77 so I might not add a few percent more. And now, now, what replaced them is being abolished, they are now shrinking in half, and the incomes on the basis of the monumental rent that, let me just put it this way, amounted to in 2007. 82 million, in 2008. 117 million, 2009 100 million. We haven't and haven't been told, and it's probably so easy to say, but that's why it's more risky to suggest this law, how much it really falls. From the eye, about 50% of these funds will fall, so 50% of them will improve the state of small entrepreneurship, production activities, etc. I really think that that caterer who works in a cultural monument is gonna be able to buy this year, I mean another speedboat or some kind of different engine. I mean, great thing that's gonna happen. If what we gentlemen agreed on in this House were what was foreseen then today the funds that should be raised as budgets, budgets and as funds based on monumental rent would be around 250 million. Now, according to this, it's going to be about 80 million. These are namely facts, and unfortunately, this is now not something where there are parties, where there are this or that here there is a civilizational or key relationship, a cultural relationship as a key relationship. This is too serious for us to agree on this. I come from a party, and on behalf of the party, I say that she herself has proposed a reduction in what is popularly called parafiscal violence. But at the same time, something can't be transferred from fiscal liabilities to fiscal money, and then it can end it there. How did it happen in the first place that culture and the protection of cultural heritage traveled from the fiscal obligations of the state or from the government's budget-based obligations, which is therefore based on a fiscal figure. That's what I've never heard of. We like to pretend to be important and boast as a cultural people. Something like this I don't know exists somewhere. Transferring culture to a pair of fiscal obligations, and then pecking and those obligations. There's no way we can be for this law. I warn that there are serious consequences to the pier. I already think the whole series is giving up a whole series of serious projects because there are no budgets. For a while, they were well - known by their ministry colleagues to replace the investments that were growing. Now it's gone too. And in fact, we are, therefore, down from 2 hundreds and 30, 250 million to 80 million in culture, in cultural heritage at all, so half of it is parafiscal. This is not a state policy towards culture. This is not a state policy according to its obligations, according to what it inherited and what it did not create itself, but also where its identity survives, its cultural heritage and its perspective. There is talk of a cultural product, and it is said that Croatia does not have a cultural product. This is a cultural product that has been celebrated for generations, and this cultural product is to us, therefore, part of a pair of fiscal burdens that I think we're now halving, and we've thrown it out of the budget. We can't support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55486	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mrs. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55487	Dear Mr. Vice President, after a fellow representative on behalf of the SDP club gave us lessons in HSS and HDZ that should be considered a law. I'd like to correct his allegations, because he was saying that these savings would be insignificant, that no one calculated how much they actually amounted to, and that the craftsmen who paid the monumental rent that it was insignificant amounts. Here's a colleague. It's not about insignificant amounts. It is estimated to reduce the amount by 120 million kuna and that is calculated by the people involved in this work and who are in charge of it in the Ministry of Culture. This is one of the measures of the economic recovery programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and is being traced to the recovery of the economy. I can only tell you for the example that I found, for example, a hotel house that has several hotels owned annually pays 1.1 million kuna monumental rent, so it's not exactly about insignificant amounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55488	And Mrs. Representative Sunny Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55489	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague Petyr fixed it, but I'm going to repeat this incorrect assumption that it's small and insignificant means. I don't think my colleague Vujic would agree that those small or insignificant funds have to pay and I think people will welcome this decision. The next incorrect quote is the amount calculated to remain not 80 million kuna but 120 million kuna. And what I want to correct is not exactly to fund the protection and preservation of cultural monuments exclusively from the funds of the monumental rent. As a former culture minister, I believe that, you know, you should know that financing public needs in culture and protecting the preservation of cultural goods in the Republic of Croatia is constantly being implemented every year. So, teaching patterns, requirements, etc. Not just a monumental rent. And I'll finish, that's right, this law was passed by the votes of all parties in '99, but by 2003 no kuna, no lip was collected for your term because everyone simply ignored this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55490	You can't! You can't, and you can't, and you can't. You can't! HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55491	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen from the Government, the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. This is when we hear the voice of HSS and HDZ in the speech of counterpart Petir, then we should congratulate on saving the economy and help the economy by reducing the monumental rent by around 120 million kuna. But when I hear and listen carefully and listen to Mr. Vujic's speech, then even though I'm not too informed in that segment, I still come from health care, then I've learned something new. And really if a man were to study while he was alive, that's right, and he really did say a catastrophic relationship fiscally and fiscally. So the budget and outside the budget to preserve, maintain cultural heritage. The fact that this fall in this fiscal budget for cultural heritage fell to say only in the last year of 2009 to about 30 million kuna, so you said Mr. Vujic if I heard correctly, then it's really something to worry about. As rich as cultural, historical monuments are in our Dalmatia, so is our continental part of Croatia. Let us take just an example of the fortress of the Ship, which is indeed a monument of the zeroth category as it is said and which is not yet completed, is not restored and is not in the light in which it should be and may be. Because this fortress had never served or served, thank God, for war purposes, and given the thorough and professional construction of builders could have been completely in the original form it was 250 years ago. Why slow goes the restoration of the Fortress of Brod and other monuments throughout Slavonia and Baranja I speak here and about Brod-Posavina County. I will not now list monuments in some municipalities such as Brod Stupnik and others, the town of Nova Gradiška and others, and in Stari Petrova Sela, Kapela, Nova Kapela,.... /. And it's clear exactly from what Mr. Vujic was saying. And now says this bill will end the payment of the monumental rent based on the use and promotion of cultural goods, and the explanation is that, in Article 2, if someone uses a recognizable cultural good on some kind of promotional poster, there is no longer any obligation to pay any rent. It's just like if someone organized the weddings, and didn't have to pay ZAMP a fee that is otherwise very rigorously carried out, when it comes to ZAMP, and when it comes to the cultural well-being that our generations and generations have been building, since the century 7th in this country, in this area, it wasn't the state that it is, but it doesn't matter what it was, etc., then we give it up. To improve the economy, and when it comes to going to some director of one of our companies, sometimes state-owned, it is not a problem to pay the gentleman, and not to him, but hundreds of managers per million euros in severance. Or six, seven million kunas of severance. When it comes to paying four hundred managers on the Croatian railway, with salaries of over 30, 40 thousand kuna, that is not the problem. When you need to buy unusable cash registers, automatically on HZ, that's not the problem. When you need to buy expensive electricity, and sell cheap and lose 600 million kuna, that's not the problem, but the Fortress Ship is the problem, Stradun is the problem, Donat is the problem. How we treat our ancestors, their work, their efforts to make this country look as it is, so beautiful and so beautiful as ours. Is it ours, if this is how we treat it, if by such a legal proposal, if in the fiscal section, then in the budget more than 30 million kuna for the preservation of cultural heritage, cultural monuments in the Republic of Croatia. So what's 30 million kunas versus some severances worth hundreds of millions of kunas? And what Mr Vujic says, are we perhaps going to buy a bike from some owner, the son of one of the owners of a guest house on the sea in Slavonski Brod or anywhere else in Zagreb, in Zagreb or anywhere else? It's an interesting formulation that says here in the assessment of the necessary means of law enforcement. Very interesting. It is not necessary to provide additional resources for the implementation of this law. Well, of course it's not necessary to ensure, if it's not really necessary to provide additional resources. So how do we maintain those monuments if we cancel 50% of the rent? I really had to smile at a formula like this. In the state, neither in the state budget nor in the state budget, we will not provide funding, nor in the budgets of units of local and regional so-called. regional self-government, he says, is expected to cut budget revenues by about 50%, but no funding is needed. To whom, whose back will the burden of keeping the monuments of culture, of cultural heritage fall? As this matter will be regulated in the future, which is not unfortunately marked E, this is our internal Croatian thing, so it is not European, and obviously we are solving it in a non-European way, as we want to show that this is what we encourage and release the economy from certain obligations, who imposed these duties, were they called fiscal or parafiscal in order for citizens to say this right not to understand those terms, so what is from the tax is fiscally budgetary, and what is parafiscal, these are the burdens that have reached the number of 250 of such duties in the Republic of Croatia, and are now being abolished. Don't they end up in the wrong place, in the wrong way, and so maybe from the tail and not from the head, so where and where do they start, where do they start to help the economy? Yesterday, by abolishing, i.e. reducing the membership fee to tourist communities, and tourism is like a strategic branch of the economy, today in reducing the payment of the monumental rent. So we started with tourism and culture. Isn't it a little unfortunate that this is how we started, and the proposer who suggested it has a lot of, a lot of other things where someone could say cut, ride, whatever you want, as someone else likes to say, a little ugly term, so that the money is created, not cut, secure for what generations and generations of Croatian citizens, Croats and Croatian citizens and all those who have lived in these areas have acquired and that we who today can present our cultural heritage, train et orbi to the world, everyone who comes to Croatia, here we watch every day Japanese, Koreans who visit this beautiful square of St. Mark and other cultural monuments, and other cultural monuments in both the City of Zagreb and the Republic of Croatia. On the list of legal and physical persons who perform activities in cultural monuments, the monumental heritage was here, and I will not repeat myself, there are also absurd things and those who fall, do not fall into it, but indeed what I am specifically undermining and what again, which is again to say absurdly, when it comes to assessing the necessary means to implement the law. And the HDSSB club won't be for this kind of solution, so we'll be against this kind of proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55492	Thank you. An individual debate, Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55493	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So here is the programme of economic recovery, proposed by the Government, which also provides for the development of fiscal policy measures, which refers to the reduction, i.e. the removal of non-taxable duties. I understand this law today as well as yesterday only as a fraction in that entire economic recovery program, and I understand it as temporary. This also points to the conclusion of the Committee on Culture, where the Committee on Culture is unanimous, as far as I have seen it suggests to the Croatian Parliament that by the end of this year a whole law be passed that would regulate the issue of monumental rents properly, on a permanent basis and in this sense I address Mr Vujic, and I think that there will be a way to regulate this monumental rent through the new law, which he simply suggested on the Committee on Culture. I must say that I understand when the ministries were assigned by the government to relive this economic recovery programme that they had to find ways to reduce cocoa and yesterday memberships in tourist communities, today's memorial rent. And since we heard yesterday that there were more than 250 of these parafiscal donations, so one of them was also a monumental rent, it had to be approached by taking those fees off. Well, you said yourself from the SDP that you suggested it yourself. But of course I disagree when it comes to monuments, I am particularly sensitive to this problem, and I think it is safe to consider this problem a little deeper. In particular, it has been reduced from 3 to 10 kuna per metre square metre so far, it has now been reduced from 1 kuna to 7th left to local administration units and self-government to decide for themselves what activities to impose. We have, when it comes to Dubrovnik, set 3 kunas for transition crafts and otherwise for crafts, up to 10 kuna for these other activities. At the end when we wanted to encourage traditional crafts in the machine of the historic city core, then we cut down the entire monumental rent, but by law we had no right, so we ourselves had to pay out of the budget that zero rate we got with the traditional trades. Now that that's possible at 1 kuna, I don't think that's going to be a big problem. I also understand that the suspension of Articles 112 and 113 was too high, that no interest was shown. I understand that through the new law, we need to find a way to motivate users and let's call them favors. As far as national classification activities are concerned, I see that the text of the law must be harmonised with the new national classification. This is a technical problem, and the economic strength of the entities that are obliged to pay the disputed rent has also been taken into account. I have only one personal remark here that I have long dealt with and spoken often to ministers and former ministers and the current minister. I understand solidarity, and 60% goes to local and self-government units, 40 for the state budget, and then it is solidly distributed to all Croatian cities and sites for the restoration of monuments, which is understandable and not unique. So yesterday we introduced 7.5% of the tourist membership fee and it is perfectly understandable that the richer ends are being helped by those who can't do it. But what bothers me is that I brought it up and on the Committee on Tourism is next. That the memorial rent is paid by place of establishment of the company, which means you have large companies to say example Croatia Airlines, Croatia Insurance and not to list others now. They perform their activities specifically in the Adriatic cities, in particular in Dubrovnik, and pay the monumental rent by place of the craftsmen. I think it is a great injustice compared to the units of local administration and self-government I would ask that when writing a new law take this into account in this way Zagreb, we heard this before that Zagreb has 78 million kuna at last year's level of monumental rent, and this is only because the headquarters of these large companies in Zagreb and there goes income, and their activity is achieved in cities or municipalities on the coast. In that sense, I would ask that it be taken into account and that it really be just, and I have nothing against solidarity. I will certainly support this law, because it is part of a government's economic programme, but it is certain that it is necessary to respect the opinion of the unanimously adopted Committee on Culture and to go into writing a new law so that we all respect not only our ancestors but our culture, the heritage that we so swear to and from which many of us live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55494	Thank you. Five replicas. First Mr. Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55495	I'm glad I can replicate it for you, because I know that the development of the city is on your mind and you have a lot of experience as mayor. But the main point is that maybe this has at least happened to be something temporary, etc. However... these offers did not come from the ministry. In fact, the Committee did not support this law, the vote was five, five, and it gave unique support to the need to put this matter in place together. I was going to ask you to be here in some way solidarity all together. This can't be a radical drop in budget funds and at the same time liquidating the monumental rent as a parafiscal charge. It doesn't go together at all. And this is not Vujic's invention, this is the data from the Ministry of Culture that I'm talking about. So out of 130 million budgets fell to 27 million, in the last year 30, so almost 80%. And at the same time now to halve the monumental rent. That's what's not going anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55496	Replica response, Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55497	I didn't even say that it was unanimously adopted that the law was passed by the board, but the opinion proposed by the ministry to come out with a new law and I believe that we will have no problem with it, especially that the Parliament is passing the law. So this time we're on the move. And as far as I'm concerned, it's also a fact that budgets have fallen in view of the funds that came from the monumental rent and tried to replace one another which may not be good, because at these difficult economic moments it was probably the only way.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55498	Mr. Representative Boro Grubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55499	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Shuica from simply saying those party disciplines herself said at the end of her presentation, that because the government has proposed, she agrees with the bill's proposal and will vote for it. At the beginning of her presentation, however, she said that the Committee on Culture together with the Croatian government is preparing a new Law on the financing and protection of cultural goods. Article 7 of this proposal states that this law will enter into force on 1 October 2010, so I would also be a proposal and a replica to Ms. Shuici that the Committee on Culture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia hastily adopted a proposal for a new Law on the financing of the protection of cultural goods, in order to make up for this new law, whether in a fiscal or parafiscal manner, as you would like in the executive government of the Republic of Croatia to continue to have preserved and maintained cultural monuments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55500	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55501	Here I would answer Mr. Grubisic. I did not say that I would support the law just because the government proposed it but that it is part of the overall major economic recovery programme supported by most of the Croatian public, supported by the economy, supported by the president himself, and that is why this may be a drop in the sea, but surely at this moment it will also help the recovery of the economy and small and medium-sized economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55502	Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55503	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuica, you've told me what's bothering you, and I'd say what's bothering me, and that's similar to what many craftsmen and entrepreneurs are torturing. These are two things: on which objects are calculated monumental rents and how funds are used collected from the monumental rent. Every man would have to be aware of the social need to maintain cultural goods, but if the City of Zagreb has been accounting for monumental rent to craftsmen and entrepreneurs for an object that has been torn down and on the land on which housing buildings were built... Then you can't talk about it on rent, you can talk about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But if craftsmen in a protected cultural monument are carrying out their activities, then it's a rental, and it's not imposed. And in the use of funds, for example, they are not satisfied with those who single out a monumental rent to restore from these funds the front of buildings in the city centre where private apartments are located, because it is the property of private tenants and they are obliged from the funds of the reserve to maintain those fronts. And also in those areas that they pay for the monumental rent, the city not restores the front but forces them to use their means to restore those fronts. So there's a difference whether they're renting it or imposing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55504	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55505	Mr. Maric, I'll go from this last one. Surely these funds that come into the budget should be spent on purpose. It is a matter of reviewing the city's budgets annually, budgeting, how certain cities and mayors and former chieftains will use funds and, in that sense, I fully agree with you that private citizens are obliged to pay their fronts from the reserve. In this second part where you say which objects should pay the monumental rent, I think we have already slowly started writing this law to me here because it is seen that there is a lot of illogicalness and it is a matter of conservatory departments of the Ministry of Culture that need to be specified, exactly as this national classification of activities, and this classification of space that the conservation departments need to determine exactly and make sure that the space you're talking about is accidentally destroyed or that is the space that needs to be maintained and restored. This is a very serious matter, and I'm glad this debate opened up.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55506	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55507	Thank you. A colleague encouraged this discussion as to what was right, I would also say abuse of the monumental rent, but it should not be forgotten that the restoration of the cultural monuments is not just made out of these funds. I'm going to mention a good example, it's, say, a concrete Dubrovnik Wall where it's coming in annually and it's exclusively intended for the restoration of these same monuments and some others, so almost 50 million kuna. And that when we compare to the amount obtained at the state level from the monumental rent then you will actually see just how much this one monument of culture such as the Dubrovnik Walls, how much money can be returned and how much of it can be invested in reconstruction, etc. So this is a bright example of how cultural monuments should be used precisely for the purpose of the tourist product, etc. But what is worrying is what my colleague Maric also mentioned in this replica to you is that in certain areas of certain cities for certain activities that have nothing to do with tourism or with this monument of culture, a monumental rent is simply charged. For example, I have an example in Zagreb where a colleague who deals with the organisation of courses, so with one educational activity, has to pay a memorial rent as if he were a caterer living in a center where he lives exclusively from a monument. I am even for those who live exclusively from cultural monuments such as hotel facilities in the city of Dubrovnik or catering facilities on the Stradun itself who pay enormous rents per month, even increase their rent because they depend exclusively on that monument of culture. They get a bigger rent because that's the only reason these people come to sit down. Because otherwise why would you pay rent to a restaurant in the center of Dubrovnik 170 thousand kuna per month if not because of the attractiveness of the monumental heritage itself. Both teams need to collect the monumental rent, of course. To those who really have no connection, their activity has nothing to do with it, of course they need to be freed, relieved, and in this sense this measure I hope that it will encourage us, but also hit the purpose of helping the economy itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55508	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55509	Here is Mr. Matušić, you mentioned Dubrovnik several times and one specific person in Dubrovnik, which is the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik Antiquities, which has a budget of nearly 50 million kuna and which have been funds for years, 50 years and returned to monuments and does not need any revision or Mrs. Krasic because these funds are exclusively intended for monuments and have been used for the restoration of the monument. But these days, you have the opportunity to hear how these funds have been unintendedly used since Dubrovnik City took them under its own, which is a very negative example so you reminded me of that. There is another positive example where these days you hear that from the Dubrovnik cableway that will be opened these days after 20 years requires funds from the concession to be given to the City of Dubrovnik. It is also a particular example that should be considered, but in this case all hotels, as you said colleague Matušić, and all those living exclusively from the monuments, and most of them living from monuments, are typical examples of the Excelsior Hotel in Dubrovnik and the hotel Argentina and all those living on the area of Ploča, which live exclusively from the view of the historical core. So the cable can't be treated differently, it must be treated the same as all other monumental objects, and in that sense, this is also for consideration and in this part of the monumental rent really work out and see how to make the owners really participate in what they get from our cities, and here I especially stress Dubrovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55510	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55511	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal is explained and actually adopted because of the overall programme of economic recovery brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It shall be deleted, as we have heard, in Article 112 or 113, from the obligations of natural and legal persons acting in relation to monumental facilities, using motives, making souvenirs, textile products, etc. And Article 114 is reduced from the current 3 and 10 to 1 to 7 per square metre. In addition, Article 114 makes it impossible for the bonds of the monumental rent to pay the monumental rent on two basiss. I'd like to say right away that no one is happy about this proposal. We understand it and experience it as one component of a general economic recovery project and as a temporary fact. It is certain that it is necessary and possible and this stems from the debate so far to review the system of monumental rent both in view of the persons covered, natural and legal persons and the problem of identifying the concept of cultural monuments and monuments. In fact, we cannot overlook the fact that the reduction of these funds in the budget a few years ago justifiably introduces a monumental rent. Now, however, these funds are clearly being drastically reduced. Therefore, the proposal for this law can be justified because of the temporary intervention and as one reason to really examine and improve some of the essential elements of the Law on Monumental Rents, as well as colleagues Šica and colleagues Frano Matušić. There's really an absurdity. The example is that, according to the location of the draft, this monumental rent is paid, not according to the place where the activity is carried out. Therefore, the issue of monumental rent absolutely needs to be reviewed and improved and projected already in the form of significant improvements and economic and all other parameters in which we move budget and other things. The fact is that the anomalies found in the current Law on Monumental Rent should undoubtedly be removed. We heard them several, that this proposal should be accepted as transparent and as a reason, which I think is particularly important that both they and those weaknesses, those indeterminateness, unsettledness, and the bad solutions that have been in the monumental rent of the ID. Therefore, I will read here, however, in my presentation the conclusions of the Committee which has already been mentioned several times here in the debate, which is that it obliges the Ministry of Culture to create, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to refer this year to the Croatian Assembly a proposal to amend and supplement existing provisions, i.e. the adoption of a separate law that would adequately regulate the issue of monumental rents on a permanent basis, starting with the need and possibility of protecting cultural goods and monuments and in future improved budgetary and economic opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55512	Thank you. Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55513	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government, Mr. Secretary of State. This subject is very close to me, familiar, and I'm interested in doing it as well as possible. But in my debate, however, I will change the course I thought of because much has already been said that I should have said, so there is no point in wasting time. But I find it interesting even so much that the question is whether the monumental rent is the right term or not, unlike what everything is a monument, which is not, which can be called a monument. Of course, many have discussed it, and Diocletian's palace and monument, say Luka Botic, are not the same and the same thing in terms of which it is, so I would rather talk about a problem or a termology that would be closer to the heritage and that of the building heritage, but also natural heritage that can be treated in the same way at certain times. But I realize that's how there's a term in law until now. But thinking about the language, it seems to me that we've also led these discussions to what is a monument and what is not a monument. My colleagues, I am grateful that my colleague Vujic had the debate he had. It shows at least from his performance which was very emotional, I would even say not just professionally justified. There is one knowledge of the problem and one commitment to this. But I am pleased to hear from that side a debate that prevails in the profession and does not predominate politics in relation to the subject on which it is explained. And I liked it, and I really liked helping out how to react when you felt someone else was telling a lie. I'm not saying that someone else was telling a lie in that context, because I've often been in such a situation, looking for help as to how some lie can be... and there is no opportunity for the Rules of Procedure to undo it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And even those who would tell lies would leave the hall, wouldn't even care to hear what someone was correcting their allegations. But to go back to the very subject that is extremely important and to attach myself to something that is from my profession's point of view, my problems and the good of this heritage we're talking about, about these monuments very important. At the very least, why these coins are all alimony in one way or another. It actually refers to the preservation and restoration of these monuments so that they last in space. And there's a lot of problems that aren't just about money, but they're also a question of technology how money is placed, how the approvals are given, etc. That's why I'm extremely interested in this subject, and I think that the proposal to think about a new law on this topic is at a later stage, because this is all a temporary measure. Unfortunately, a temporary measure that goes in favour of those who pay, to reduce their givings whether 120 million is full or small, 50 million large or small. But we know it would be good if we had as much funds in the budget to rebuild the monuments and preserve them. That's why I'd put on the table another segment of investment that you're not talking about here. I spoke to Mr. Secretary of State earlier. He taught me about the technology available, but which is not so publicly known, is not present about the use of these resources and would be given to use if someone with their documentation went forward. In fact, many pay the monumental rent for the monument they use, and they put their own money into it and did not receive any kuna. And it seems very absurd that I'm renewing my own monument and that I've spent my money raising its value and that's how this monumental rent is paid. It seems to me, therefore, that in alimony of these funds from the rental of the monumental value, it is very important to take into account the own funds that the user or the owner of that space invests and to make it possible for him to do so in a certain way. Of course, there are budgetary or budgetary constraints, because someone can come with all the documentation without the funds being made available to him. So it's still very important to fill that central register from which it goes forward. Something that makes a general impression, on any tourist or visitor of any city, that's facades, that's the front of the house. The front of the house although they are physically belonging to the building and to the owner who owns the house, they are actually the face of one city, they are the property of the whole city, therefore the question of the front and what on the fronts is going on and in what state should come out of the context of the care of the owner or user of that space himself and become city property in a certain way through that care. It's not just a matter of heritage, it's something we're building today, so it's going to be a legacy in some future times and it's going to get some kind of valorisation. We should therefore see through this what happens to fronts and buildings that are built in one way, and each user changes it and adapts it to their own needs, not seeing in it the heritage or possible artistic or historical or any value that we are talking about today in relation to past times. It's a hard time today to realize that one day it's going to be the same time. In the sense of facilitating the placement of these funds that would eventually be collected, those who would like to rebuild these facilities themselves cannot, of course, restore them themselves without obtaining adequate consent, the consent of professional services and security guards and all those who need to bless such a single project, one such intention. That's where we find a lot of problems, protection services aren't so teamed up that they could work. Professional services not only by the number of people who work, but by the profession that have not so many or educated or trained that they can give too many solutions each time, for this reason they do not give investors the impulses how to redecorate these buildings, in which way they do, but they are asked by the designers to make several solutions and then someone in the service will push their finger and say this to me, this is not my pleasure, although it is not responsibility for such a decision, but for the designer who made it. So there are major problems in the upcoming of the permit to rebuild objects, because if there were fewer problems then probably more would happen, or there would be less evil, because, unfortunately, as in Croatia, it is very common, in many segments when people lose confidence in the procedure or when they get tired of that procedure then they make themselves and at that point no one controls them anymore because they have done everything they are. The same way we talked about tourism yesterday, because some parallel can be withdrawn. The inspector does not come into an illegal facility, because this facility has neither a location, nor a useful, nor a building permit and does not work officially, but works on the wild, and the inspectors only come to those who have reported activities, so these problems and protection and surveillance over it is very important, the same as the relationship with UNESCO, we only use UNESCO when we want to jam someone's leg, slow down his realization, and we don't use it when it's useful. The experiences of the ministry itself show that the issue of treatment and relations with UNESCO is, say, one way in France, and we, without UNESCO, can't do anything at all. Of course UNESCO is good to protect all this together. So, indicating the future of a revised law that will speak of me rather than tell the heritage, which would include the natural heritage, not only this, although it may be two separate laws, I understand this as a temporary measure against which there is nothing to add from a political context, nor to take away, but I certainly regret that the funds are not alimated in that sum in which they were required to keep as much heritage as possible and to live daily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55514	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Sunday's Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55515	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the brother-in-law, Jerko, I actually agree with you, and you said the fact that it's also a matter of technology, but also how we actually have to treat our cultural heritage, but what she would add is here and our whole relationship, that is, our dedication to cultural heritage. The fact is that we, in this budget space, were able to determine the amount of the monumental rent so far, for example, for my city, which from its first mention to today has been more than a thousand years, for certain activities has been decided by the former headship to go even into the release of some traditional crafts, up to the highest level in some 5 kuna per square metre. However, it should be said that it is only one source of funding in the maintenance of cultural monuments. But you also touched another problem that seems to me to have to work on, which is how you motivate the individuals who own property in the historic city. Not only is the problem coming out of the conservatory department of the Ministry of Culture because of certain projects in which they should be maintained and rehabilitated spent under quotes monuments of culture, but also the way they finance because they are mainly people who do not have enough resources, and they also often happen that they do not live in that city where the property is located. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55516	Replication response, brother-in-law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55517	Sir Vlado, let me answer something. Of course, you mentioned something that's actually the most important thing in all of this is our mentality, and how we treat everything. That mentality is quite low at many levels, compared to some general interest that all of us should have. One of the classic examples of such a situation is that we have environmental problems just because we create ecological problems, so we have to solve them. If we didn't create them, we wouldn't have to solve them. The motivation of the owner is part of what I was talking about, and I totally agree with you for apostrophe of that one fact. Something to add to that subject, given your experience as the mayor of Sibenik, so the same one city full of monumental heritage is one finding, I don't know if the other colleagues will agree with me, I think it's a shame that some times we MPs who need to raise their hands on some law don't participate in the preparation of one law, because there are some specific experience that we have that some of us who are preparing this law don't have. I'm not looking at you personally because I'd object to you, but you're the address I'm talking to. Because there are no mayors in the ministry who have experienced such practical experiences or anyone else. So, let our reflections be useful in preparing laws not only of this but also of other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55518	Thank you. Two notices. At 12.43, it was time to report a ten-minute hearing. And a session of the Committee on Gender Equality will be held today at 14:00 at the "Janka Draskovic" hall. Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55519	I'm going to approach the problem from a perfectly pragmatic level to actually see the sequencing that is being introduced by this law. And I'm going to start with this pragmatic level of quote yesterday's debate by Mrs. Shuice, which actually triggered a very current and burning problem, which she spoke very inspiredly about, and that impressed me. Mrs. Shuica concluded that our main problem in tourism is the length, or shortness of the season. And it is one of the main tasks of existing tourism capacities and how they are used is to translate them into all year-round tourism. All year long tourism is built on cultural tourism, congress tourism, sports tourism and health tourism, perhaps religious tourism. So these are the elements of year-round tourism. Which is what even when religious matters are a culturally good basis for year-round tourism. In order for the cultural well-being to work and for the cultural well-being to remain culturally good at all, we all know that we have to maintain it sometimes and reconstruct it. And we all know that it takes adequate resources. The way in which the same amount is maintained or maintained in the system is maintained or approximately, which means that fiscal resources are replaced by parafiscal means without even taking into account inflation, in fact, the drop in the amount of resources available to maintain material goods. It means the indirect decline of available resources for the introduction of all year-round tourism. And that's what the basic obstacle of this law is, and that's what needs to be regained, along with the fact that it's underdeveloped and that I don't tell primitive countries, the first thing that is cut into budgetary difficulties is culture, education and science. And culture, education and science are what rests not only on the well-being of people, but in fact the entire life of one nation, one political community, whatever we want to call it. And that's what's really worrying, and that's what we can't back down from and why we shouldn't approach the party, but rather what our colleague said is a consensual way. We'd have to work things out by consensus. What we're talking about right now is actually a matter of one strategic activity. Tourism is relatively low-accumulated, in Croatia an economic branch of strategic activity, both because of the very large number of people living in it, and because it provides the country with the appropriate amount of foreign exchanges that allows it to be as normal as the international level. And now if we fall to the 70s, 80s, then we're going to cut off another branch we're sitting on. I simply think that it should be taken into account in all policy options. And I think these are financial locks, regardless of the difficulties we're in, we're inadmissible. Because when we are in financial difficulties, then we must actually only then take care of the exploitation of every kuna and only then must we take care to invest them in the kind of activity that will bring relatively fast and appropriate profit. Tourist activity aims to expand so that from the existing summer tourism, it becomes actually year-round. By reducing resources to maintain cultural goods, this possibility is reduced, especially as regards amounts that you do not invest today, in three years you will have to invest between 20 and 50 kuna. So these are the resources necessary to maintain cultural goods. And if they don't spend at an adequate moment, then those resources that are needed to maintain these same material goods, over time they're tremendously growing, they're growing exponentially. And so it seems to me that this is a law of economic, cultural and political importance and a whole series of remarks that we are giving you and not giving you because we are opposition, so we are apores against what you are doing, but we are also giving you quite good intentions that unless we provide funds for those activities that are currently the most controversial of our economic aspects, we are actually going to break our teeth even more economically. And so it seems to me that this structure that you have now carried out without a guarantee that the funds now abolished will be compensated in some other way in a budgetary or fiscal way, in my court, unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55520	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55521	Thank you very much. Mr. Flego, you said that this bill of law actually cut the branch we're sitting on. And that's right. You also mentioned cultural tourism as a kind of tourism and that, of course, we have an idea and that our goal is to extend the season and give as much tourism to our guests in this way to increase such revenue in budgets either state, local, urban, municipal. I would tell you about the city of Dubrovnik that the cultural tourism index is 29%. When you take the European average to be 2 to 6% or one Vienna that has 11%, then we see what kind of repercusions it will all have on the city of Dubrovnik, that is, on this cultural tourism, that is, part of tourism in general, that is, part of our country's economy. And then I really have to figure out how to cut the branch we're sitting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55522	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55523	Thank you to my colleague, Shimac Bonačić. I am very glad that from different political perspectives we come to the same conclusion, and we have actually approached the consensus that the solution is not good, regardless of the current financial pressure, we must all try to find money to maintain cultural goods because they are the foundation of one of our strategic and cultural activities and thank you for your contribution. I quoted a colleague from another political option and somehow there is, if I may say in this Chamber a political consensus on it, so I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55524	Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55525	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I would actually say that the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Croatia is one of many criteria, if not the only body of the current government that has exclusively dealt with its territory by following the principles of the profession and respecting public interest and needs in culture. And that's why I'm actually surprised by this bill today, which is what it is, it came from the Ministry of Culture today. In fact, we are all aware, and these days we repeat, we are aware that Croatia is in the midst of a severe financial crisis where there is no end to the fact that today's government does not have constructive answers. We saw this yesterday with the proposal to amend and supplement the law we also see today that the government is simply doing a cutting without any simulations, without any calculations to see how much such changes of law are actually paid, or such measures. The bill reduces, more precisely bagatelises the status, idea and symbolism of cultural goods, destroys the thought and strategic thinking of the market value of cultural goods, but does not foster any awareness of the value of cultural goods that greatly define the cultural identity of many local communities. Today we also talked about the consciousness of our citizens living in cultural monuments, and therefore in this way we certainly will not work on it, on the awareness of such fellow citizens that they can rebuild such monuments. It is not clear at all what prompted the adoption of the bill and who it is and why it found that high amounts of monumental rents as well as the payment of compensation for the use of cultural goods for promotional purposes. The assessment of the situation in the bill does not even cover it at all, but does not offer a reasoned analysis of the situation which would provide the basis for a serious debate on who, why, how much and who should be paid the memorial rent. So I think in the discussion on the one hand and on the other, we agreed that we should reassess, structure and eliminate anomalies. I think we are aware that this bill does not solve the problem of the monumental rent and that we should structure in this regard. It is only clear in the proposal that the proposed law reduces budget revenues based on the use of cultural goods on spinning 50% and that cities are given the right basis to exempt natural and legal persons from paying the monumental rent. The question is, who's going to make up for that 50%. As you know I come from Dubrovnik, I mentioned the size of the index, that it is the largest, that it is much larger than the European average and I wonder how we from the local budget can restore these valuable monuments of culture. Who will co-finance the restoration and protection of cultural goods? Probably again, as we heard yesterday, all of these changes, all of these cuts will be reliant, relying on local budgets, and local budgets will certainly not be able to endure it, and that is why they will suffer again what we cannot touch, what we have obtained in the inheritance or what is part of our identities as well as our Mr. Vujic in front of the club, it is part of us all. That's what we got and we got to keep it and carry it on to ours, pass it on to generations. Does the Ministry of Culture have information on how private entities, entrepreneurs, craftsmen, etc. in the area of cities, I do not have to just say now Dubrovnik, Split, Zadar, Trogir, Pula, invested in the reconstruction and protection of cultural goods. Does the Ministry of Culture know about that index that I mentioned earlier that the cultural tourism index in Dubrovnik is 29% and the European average is 2 to 6%. Does the Ministry of Culture know that in Dubrovnik, for example, the private sector has earned far more from cultural goods than the local budgets will ever earn, and just from the local budget is paid to rebuild and protect the monumental building. So let's say, here's a colleague mentioned in Dubrovnik mentioned a case of cableways in Dubrovnik, and this actually example of cableways shows how much the private sector actually uses local cultural resources for its own financial gain. The private owner has a concession, however, he has done nothing, his financial investments should be respected, but he has his project of relying on the city's existing infrastructure, and that is why I am standing at the view that part of this income should remain in the City of Dubrovnik because it should continue to be invested in the infrastructure used by that private entrepreneur. Profits are killed on taxpayers' investments. I think that this way and other examples point to a culture instrumentation process that is contrary to a model that is in force in many European countries where it insists on the social value and exploitation of culture. However, today we heard in Croatia the model is such that it insists on the market value of the culture it has for the private sector. And I would also refer to one part of the law, the bill, when it is said, states the erasure of Article 112 which prescribes the obligation for the person who placed on the market the product on which the recognizable cultural good or its recognizable part to pay 10% of the price of the product. It's questionable how optimal that amount is. Whether it's a high amount or not. However, does this mean that you are given permission for carefree stamping of anything, pulse arenas, St. Duja, St. Vlach on all kinds of products of tourist promotion, souvenirs. This symbol could happen to be from brandy to underwear. Gentlemen, think about it. I can't accept a bill like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55526	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55527	Here's just one correction. In fact, my colleague said that the government didn't do a simulation and that she didn't know what was actually going on. It's completely incorrect. The government is correct with all the economic measures it has prepared exactly what will happen, how much money will be saved and, in this case, concrete as it was with tourist membership yesterday. They know exactly what is in the tens of millions of kunas or hundreds that will be saved and which will actually be made available to the economy and which will be released for economic development. And I hope that this measure will actually be one of the temporary measures and that we will return to an absolutely intense restoration of cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55528	Mr. Representative Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55529	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the very least, I find this law problematic, and I will be happy to explain it. For certain savings that are really relative and small when we see how large our budget gaps are or how much our cultural heritage requires to be maintained in such a state for such savings which you and many entrepreneurs will admit, especially those who respect the walls of an old town and profit from what exists within the walls of such a city, for such savings we can potentially do great damage. This law is a general attitude towards culture and cultural policy and the reduction of budgets can cause great damage to cultural heritage, in terms of cultural tourism development, but also in terms of our cultural identity. I'd like to ask a few questions before I make this argument right now. So, I am interested in whether the promoter spoke to the profession and what the Croatian Council for Cultural Goods said on the proposal for this law. Also, I'd like to know if the analysis was done. Whether or not an analysis of complaints related to the rent itself has been made. Whether any analysis has been made as much as, for example, entrepreneurs who operate inside, I'm going to say again the walls of an old town actually benefit from exactly what they're in such a position. Did an analysis of how many people who, for example, use Dubrovnik in their commercials profit from it? And finally, the question of how many states have benefited from those 1,000 kunas that should be paid when used recognizable cultural well-being. I personally realized in a few conversations that at least about those 1,000 kunas to be paid is about miserable amounts, because there are obviously no mechanisms, good collection mechanisms. So I ask you, is the elimination of these 1,000 kunas to be given when the recognizable cultural well-being is actually the cast of the fog. Because if we don't charge something, then why cancel it? Obviously, it hasn't worked since the beginning. When we talk about these reasons, I think there might be a lot of damage, because of the changes to this law, which is due to the reduction. Because the culture ministry's budget is really, in my personal opinion, at least miserable. That's my personal opinion. It needs far, far more money to give to Croatian culture and far, far more money to go for cultural heritage. Our cultural heritage is not ours, it doesn't belong to our generation, only to our generation. She came from our ancestors, generations before us, and we should leave it to someone after us. The question is, in what state will we leave our cultural heritage? It's a key question and responsibility of the present generation. Because if we're going to do these changes and if the money is going to be less and there's generally less money in the budget for the maintenance and restoration of cultural heritage, then gentlemen dearly, we're going to be in big trouble very quickly in a few years. Cultural heritage in conjunction with cultural tourism can bring big money, it can charge the budget through taxes, it can bring new jobs, but it costs too. Maintaining cultural heritage costs, and not maintaining cultural heritage, colleagues and colleagues destroys that same heritage. And we, if we keep going this way and we're going to go with a proposal like this, with these still miserable resources in the budget, we can say in this way freely that it pleases the devastation, only the devastation of cultural heritage. The other thing that will be found in problems is cultural tourism. We like to often say in Croatia that we are the country even often read by newspapers and elite tourism. We actually have cultural tourism which is often one of the key things of elite tourism is in the bandages and should be openly acknowledged. He's still underdeveloped, and potentially he can hire hundreds and thousands of people and bring in big money. And this way, we slowly cut a branch that can really be one big green beautiful branch in a couple of years. We're cutting it now. And speaking of this elite tourism again, we ourselves have to admit one thing, that we are still a country of mass tourism, mass tourism that lasts three summer months and di tries to make as much money as possible in those few months. And that's our tourism. He is, in most cases, still mass tourism, and I will gladly argue the same. In elite tourism, things are different. At our house, however, just to go back and the top cultural events, the exhibitions take place in the middle of summer because they require minimal work and already there are tourists who have come. But cultural tourism, which is one of the cornerstones of elite tourism requires 12 months of tourism, 12 months requires, requires a lot of money, requires a lot of work. My colleague set a good example here, so I'll do it again. Vienna, Budapest, Prague, any of these cities to take. How is it that one city earns more than all of Croatia and all of our tourism in a year? So because you in Vienna and when it's -17 and it snows to your knees, you'll have top-notch exhibitions, top-notch operas, top-notch events, top-notch scientific conferences. That goes for Prague and Budapest. And there goes my argument that we are still unfortunately mass tourism that lasts very briefly and there is only to gain some age in a short time. If we want to help our culture, then an anti-recession measure should be your investment in cultural tourism. I will give a few examples from the European Union. The third thing I find very problematic here is the threat of our identity. Short and clear, Croatia's identity does not come from 56,000 square kilometers and our borders. God knows the border has been changing here five times in the last 100 years. Our identity doesn't come from our economy, it doesn't come from our policy, our identity comes completely from our culture. And when we are now going to join the European Union, Europe gives us a lot, and we will give it exactly that, our cultural identity, and our cultural identity becomes part of the European heritage. And I personally think that with this kind of thing, I'm going to repeat the miserable budget for culture and measures like this is jeopardizing that aspect. This law for me personally belongs to that rank that I was talking about yesterday, cutting taxes, and if it didn't, we don't have here in the Assembly of the Right Proactive Anti-Recesian Measures. So just give us two, three examples that work in Europe, so come to us with that proposal here at the Parliament. Let's say you came up with a proposal to set up a Cultural Tourism Facility, with a clear strategy to hire so many people, that certain things will be done. So it's ridiculous for me to have a museum, a museum of Turkish burglaries and military borders in Slovenia. Has it not occurred to anyone at the Ministry of Culture that it should actually be in Croatia, that it can connect a whole series of those forts, a whole series of former military landscapes actually turn money, employed people, bring tourists, 12 months a year. The other thing, so you better come up with an analysis of this bill and say look at these should be lifted, these should be reduced, and those who tear millions inside the walls of the old town should be increased. Well, that's better than this. The third thing is a fascinating example from Italy. The trusts. The state encourages large private companies to establish foundations for the restoration of cultural heritage, and not to say that in Italy even, the state has pressed... which deals with speculation, since they have not already introduced a tax on speculation and have pressed large banks to have foundations to maintain cultural heritage, which then sits in the profession and invests in the restoration of cultural heritage. [[You don't understand.]] That's, say, one measure. With such things you need to come to us, and the government has come to us with this proposal without any concrete measures that I consider to be dubious and will certainly cause major problems over the next few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55530	Thank you. One correction, one replica. Correction of Mrs. Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55531	Well, I'd like to correct two incorrect allegations. When you said that only cultural identity was an identity. Cultural identity is only one part of the national identity, it is not true that there is no political identity, that there is no economic identity, and that there is no Croatian regional identity at the end. The second you mentioned elite tourism as tourism in Croatia, this term may be used incorrectly, but it is not true. The official term for tourism in Croatia by the Croatian Tourist Board and the Ministry of Tourism is quality tourism. So... quality tourism. [[You don't understand.]] Quality. This is what Croatia is fostering and what Croatia is trying to do. And the fact is that there is still mass tourism, but this debate was more appropriate yesterday during that agenda point than today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55532	And Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55533	My colleague Mondekar, I like your exposure very much, and it's very argumentative. This is what I used to say and I used to say that our children go on trips who knows where, and we have Croatian shrines, Croatian sites and Croatian battlefields that also have cultural monuments from all these times that should be visited. And not just our children, but tourists, and you talked more about tourism. But I wanted to tell you about that, that you were talking about that, that the funds were miserable you used the word, right. I was going to say that the Ministry's funds are modest and insufficient and that to maintain cultural monuments, so they're just not enough. And now we have a further... What will be the maintenance of cultural monuments when we reduce? [[You don't understand.]] This was about this side of HDZ and HSS that there were other sources of funding for the protection and maintenance of cultural monuments. But yes, there are some, but this is still a fall, a financial downturn. So it is quite certain that this amount of 50 million kuna will make that protection of the monuments the most qualitative, the weakest. And one more thing, someone said from your camp that there was a cut of culture, education and science. Are we aware that, or, these days, a new Rules of Procedure is just coming out on the number of students in primary school classes and will condition the closure of many district schools and the dismissal of teachers. So it's another segment along with culture, so it really confirms that there are going to be some changes up and in that segment of our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55534	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55535	Thank you very much. So the ruling majority has enough hands to pass this law. And I'm going to repeat again once again we're really going to keep the devastation going. We already have examples where associations of citizens about their costs and volunteering, say, clean of weeds, needles and all sorts of places like the Cetitrad Castle, one of the key places of Croatian history. And probably even a part of the people here in the Parliament don't know what happened there. The state doesn't care about that. I'm saying part of it. Not to worry, but we have to have people who volunteer through associations about their spending. This just goes in favor of continuing the devastation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55536	Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55537	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. When the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods was adopted and adopted in 2003, it was in fact the primary goal of ensuring a stable continuous source of financial resources for this purpose. This did not mean that funding should be reduced in the state budget, i.e. in the Ministry of Culture for the same purposes, but should have been additional funds, as it was estimated to need to speed up the actual renewal of certain objects that have the treatment of cultural goods. Instead of going on now, trying to find additional funds, not only funds collected from monumental rents, i.e. insurance in the budget, but to gather and expand a circle of stakeholders who, as was said here through trusts or other forms, will actually finance the restoration and preservation of cultural monuments and cultural goods. But when we talk about a concrete amendment and the addition of this law, then the assessment of the situation is actually talking about two goals that should get this change and the addition. The first is said to have a lot of ambiguity in the existing law, which has been in place for 7 years, and the second is that it is part of the economic recovery programme of the Croatian economy in other words. When it comes to this that certain clarifications, certain changes and additions should be made, because shortcomings have been seen, then how they are dealt with. So we've seen the defects we've detected. So we're going to cancel paying the monumental rent for the use and promotion of cultural goods and we're not going to pay any more commitments, because we say so far it's too high funds. It's not said how much has been used, whether the amount of a thousand kunas is too large, if it needs to be reduced, but it says we'll end it. And so there are some things that we're going to say we're going to delete from this law, instead of getting a full analysis of how much funding has been collected, which projects are funded from it, which is with projects that are under way, and now according to some estimates, if we cut to 50% of this stable source of financial income that they're going to end, which will mean then if you bring a project to a certain part, and you can't finance it to the end. It could be said that we at the SDP club are also a certain reduction and, among other things, a monumental rent. However, it was only for one year, only in 2009 because we estimated that for the economy of the difficult year 2009 every little drop or, in a certain way, give up certain revenues. So it was only for a certain time, just for one year. However, I would like to say more about this other reason or purpose which is intended to be sent by this law, which is that it represents one segment of the economic recovery programme. And when we go to analyze that segment, so it's one of the so-called. non-taxable duties defined by the Ministry of Finance and two years ago have been established by that register of non-taxable duties. Interestingly, I think that's what my colleague Grubisic was talking about, that there is no fee in that register because it is treated and it is rightly not there, because it is treated as a compensation for the use of copyright. Then there's a reason to, for example. and the memorial rent should not be treated as non-taxable, but as one cost for those who have to pay it, but also who use it and probably benefit from their business, because they use such facilities. But I'd like to just because it's said to be a measure of economic recovery to remind you that these are untaxable donations. These are fees charged by ministries, state administrations, central state offices, agencies, budget funds, institutions, public enterprises, units of local self-government, non-profit organisations, fire-fighting tourist communities, chambers and associations. There are as many as 245. In this programme of economic recovery or economic recovery, what the government has done on the dropper so far. It reduced the water contribution because it is in its jurisdiction because the Water Economy Financing Act has transferred this possibility to the Government. The other day we discussed reducing the contribution to the general usefulness of the forest, yesterday on tourist fees or membership fees, and here today is the reduction of the monumental rent. Why do I think that's not good? Because no analysis was made that was said to be done, to be done, that she was ongoing. And just when we proposed this law on the temporary reduction of certain non-taxable duties, then it was said in the government's explanation that we're just working on such an analysis, the overall, the whole, and then we're going to come up with some solutions. We didn't get that analysis. Why does she need it? I'll tell you exactly why. What has increased these revenues from 2002 to 2007 in absolute terms from 5.5 billion to 12.5 billion kuna. This is the 2007 data, for 2008 and the ninth are not published. In 2007, so when they amounted to $12.5 billion, then they participated in the amount of local units with 42%, i.e. they picked up 5.3 billion, followed by extra- budget users who had 33%. And in that part, you know who had the most significant growth? The Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, which was collected by 171 million kuna in 2004 in just three years since its draft year, even grew to billions and 700 million kuna in 2007. We don't really know how these funds are used, who oversees the use of these funds? So far, we have not heard that the government will question that. In other words, it should be determined what are the effects of the funds collected from the so-called so-called ‘. IRS? What kind of effects do they give for the economy? Who's watching them? Who's using them? And how are they used? In order for these to be economic recovery measures, we actually need to have a complete system and a systematic resolution of such charges, because they are imposed to the greatest extent that this could be effective. I'm going to tell you that the state, for example, raised a billion kunas in 2007, I already said 5.3 billion units of local self-government. All the other 5.8 billion kuna. Of which various state funds are 4.1 billion kuna. And we have never received any information here in Parliament in what these funds have been used, who oversees the use of these funds etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55538	Thank you. I'm interrupting the session. Resume at 15.00 hours. It's Madam Representative Nadica Jelash's turn. We continue with the session and debate on the final proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55540	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Actually, I think I'm the only woman. So today, we are discussing another measure from the Government's economic recovery package aimed at reducing non-taxable duties. I remind you, 10 days ago, we had on the agenda a reduction in the forest contribution, and yesterday we also discussed reducing the tourist membership fee. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods are abolished by the obligation to pay the monumental rent for the use of recognizable cultural goods for the purposes of the promotion and sale of their own products by companies and crafts because the amounts of these obligations were too high and, of course, disimulative, so that the cultural goods were virtually not used for these promotional purposes. These funds were the revenues of the state budget. On the other hand, the amount of monumental rent paid per square of useful business space is reduced if it is located in a fixed cultural good or within a cultural historical unit. This monumental rent was the income of local self-government units. So that part of the monumental rent that was the income of the state is abolished entirely and the state won't really miss it very much, because it was symbolic anyway, while the monumental rent paid by municipalities and cities is reduced by almost 50%, then it becomes halved and certainly the local budgets are going to miss it very much. The measures for discharging the economy are welcome, especially for craftsmen, which have been closing massively since the start of the economic crisis, and these crafts as an important part of the micro-economy have been an important source of the existence of the largest part of the mid-citizen layer. However, what should be said is that the measure, as I mentioned earlier, was very late. More than two years ago, in the Ministry of Finance, a register of non-taxable donations was actually established, and the government began to react only now. I guess that's the fifth speed. I recall, the SDP club proposed reducing non-taxable duties a year and a half ago, so in those moments when the current government actually denied that there is a crisis in Croatia at all. In addition to being too late, this measure is also insufficiently effective. It's actually the same as treating the ill with camel linings. The economy cannot recover in a way that frees it of symbolic amounts, whether fiscal, or parafiscal commitments. In fact, the economy cannot be recovered at all by fiscal policy measures, and so far the government has mostly limited itself to them. The Prime Minister often says that austerity and rationalisation measures should start from his own backyard. If the Government, by sticking to what it is saying, had come from itself and only reduced or reduced the expenditure on intellectual services in the state budget to the level of 2007 because that is the level of the broken Croatian economy with these consecutive annual negative growth rates, nearly a billion kuna would have been saved, and that is tenfold more than the amount to be saved by the reduction of the monumental rent. And all that unfortunately on the burden of the budget of the local self-government unit, so municipalities and cities, and I guess that's the decentralisation that's full of mouths. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55541	Thank you. Mr. Representative Sima Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55542	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. According to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, protection of cultural goods, obligations, rights of owners of cultural goods, protection and preservation of cultural goods, "National Journal" No. 69/99, 151/03. and 87/09. At the time of the adoption of the law, it has been observed to date that the provisions of Article 112, 113 of the Law relating to the payment of the monumental rent are too high, resulting in a lack of interest in the use of cultural goods. During the application of the law, the national classification of activities was amended, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia presented a programme of economic recovery which is among other things... the removal of non-taxable duties, since the Ministry of Culture is obliged to carry out various activities relating to the reduction of the monumental rent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I therefore believe that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods should be adopted by an urgent procedure, indicating that these reasons will also help to prevent a variety of disturbances in the Republic of Croatia's economy system. For all things, and in the hope that this will be a temporary measure, I support the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55543	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55544	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's how I'm going to look back on everything that could have been heard during this morning's debate, and I'd say some of my observations about the monumental rent that we're talking about today, that is, about its first reduction and about the fact that it will be significantly reduced income and local self-government on that basis. And I'd like to say a few words about the concern expressed by some parliamentary representatives regarding the preservation of cultural heritage, with the restoration that has been financed well from these funds. In fact, I agree with all those who think that, of course, special care should be devoted to the preservation of cultural heritage, cultural monuments, because, of course, this represents a cultural identity, in addition to that, it is also a basis for economic development and it is something that will certainly contribute to a faster economic recovery. However, at this point, within all the measures the Government is taking is one of the measures to reduce therefore these non-taxable benefits, including the monumental rent and in some way to facilitate the breathing of the Republic of Croatia's economy, which is, of course, the first to extract all other activities and everything else that happens in Croatia cannot function without a healthy economy and without sound economic development. Therefore, in this respect, of course, these measures of the Croatian government should also be supported. This is just one in a series of measures. Some said it was a small amount. However, when they stand side by side, when these measures are summed up, they will ultimately result in the fact that the Croatian economy will still be disbursed for one significant part of the funds and will actually be available to them for their core activity, for the Kor Business, so that they can be more competitive on the market and that this economy will indeed record growth in the coming year as planned by these economic measures. And by the way, of course, that these measures were both praised by both the IMF and the World Bank, and in that sense it is quite clear that the Croatian government has found it I would say the right way to take Croatia out of the economic crisis. In addition, there are all the predictions that we can hear from these very institutions, which is that this year counts on stopping the decline and that growth in the economy will already be recorded in the following year. So we can say I would take this measure in peace, no matter what it means, so the reduction of funds for the restoration of cultural monuments by 50%. Well, it's important to say that it's not to cancel the memorial rent, it's to cut it down. So that's the same important thing to say. And I am sure that the government is also aware that this is a temporary measure which can still be replaced in other ways, and these other ways are also the budgets of the local self-government units and the careful management of the cultural monuments themselves. Because careful management of cultural monuments means, above all, that they are placed in one function, function of the public, function and economic exploitation, the function of showing to all those who come to Croatia who value culturally we have in Croatia, as I said in this morning's debate, such as the example of Dubrovnik walls that are annually arriving so some 50 million kunas should arrive this year. 50 million kunas only one cultural monument visited by almost a million visitors to Dubrovnik. Some of them are, of course, good and citizens of Croatia, but they are mostly tourists who come from other countries that are either on these circular trips or come to Dubrovnik primarily because of its magic that arises, from its cultural and monumental heritage. So Dubrovnik is just one example where cultural monuments are the basis for a complete economy, and in Dubrovnik this economy is tourism. And so already in this morning's part I pointed out that I think those who live exclusively from that base, so from the monumental heritage and the cultural monuments that you should actually be more involved with more funds in the monumental rent. And those who really, whose activity has nothing to do with their not really participating. Of course, here I exclude those who operate in the very monuments of culture, whose activity is related to the monument of culture and in that sense, of course, there is the possibility that local self-government in this case is now completely free from payment and traditional crafts and all those who really need to be helped to survive because it is not really a market but also what we were talking about this morning, and this is also about cultural identity, because this craft represents, in some way, the identity of both the city itself and the very environment and the very people and the state itself. Therefore, there were so far opportunities, so far it was possible to free those craftsmen, but of course the local self-government unit had to invest in the budget the funds, the minimum funds involved, so monumental rents in the event of release. Why do I think some people should pay more? Well, because only the profits they make are based on that, on cultural monuments. All hotels that look at the historic core of the city of Dubrovnik are attractive just because they have a view of the historical core. Because in Dubrovnik, they don't even have any beach. It can't be called some relaxation tourism. This is more, therefore, an attraction exclusively to the protected historical core of the city of Dubrovnik, which is also a world heritage. However, what I think is that local units, local self-government units, specifically cities and municipalities in whose areas these cultural monuments are, should therefore be well thought out in what way to put into office these monuments of culture and how to actually use them to develop their environments because they are in any case one magnet for all those who want to come to Croatia and who want to see what Croatia is and what Croatia can offer them in one cultural sense. Therefore, there is great responsibility in these units of local self-government and for the preservation and restoration of these monuments, I would say in these areas, but in a sustainable way, that they really contribute to the environment itself. This is a good example. So, the Dubrovnik walls are one I would say an excellent example of how the monument of culture can contribute, how it can sustain itself and, in fact, help in maintaining other monuments of culture or specifically by means obtained from Dubrovnik walls have been restored and stone walls and are now being put into operation and already working and incomeing new funds. And in the Hawk Towers, as far as I know, I don't know if there's anything else. In any case, it is a remarkable, extraordinary basis for further preservation of all monuments, and in that sense I think that as much as possible, local self-government units should be committed to taking care of cultural monuments. Of course, there are those environments that are more aware, and those who are less aware of this situation, but it is up to us to make the law, that through this proposal which is the state in the form of amendments by the board, that in one I would say better regulate this area, to take into account the role of units of local self-government and of course to take into account the fact that many benefits have much more than the monuments of culture itself than some others in the economy itself, and that fact is extremely important. And in that sense, we're going to need to talk about it again anyway. I am not afraid that this measure, which is primarily addressed to the recovery of the economy, will endanger cultural heritage, I do not think it will come, because I say there are other sources of resources, but I am sure that this measure will contribute to the economy itself within all those economic measures and moves that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55545	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55546	Mr. Matušić and you, and today many of you are talking about rescue measures for our economy. That's what we talked about and suggested, but you refused everything. And I'm wondering what you think of this as a gas-gathered, 12% gas-gathering thing. What will happen now, how it will affect the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55547	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55548	So I wish I could do that, to the question of how the accumulated gas was answered from the point of view of the citizens of Dubrovnik, who has no gas and who unfortunately did not get the pipeline of gas and who is in a subordinate position compared to some other citizens who have both gas pipelines and who have both highways and everything else. Unfortunately, this government and the HDZ Government, which came in 2003 and which now has to solve the fundamental infrastructure problems of the Republic of Croatia, today, unfortunately, in a much more unfavourable situation than it was. And therefore, if there have been no other reasons, it is quite certain that this increase is probably justified because it has not been there for years, but today I am talking about how the government is primarily considering the even development of Croatia, that it is considering basic infrastructure projects, and the preservation of the economy, and that these measures will help to preserve economic activities and get out of the economic crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55549	Final review, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture Zoran Šikic. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55550	... which is indeed in the final phase of the creation of a strategic document for the protection and preservation of cultural heritage, which will be followed by either changes and additions or a new Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Heritage, and that in this context, a more quality of things will be defined and including this moment, means financing, protection and preservation of cultural monuments, definitely which means a monumental rent. [[Specially enabled.]] It really is a short-term and temporary measure. And formally in the economic recovery programme, it is called because in this section it means, in relation to three possibilities, in the part concerning short-term measures. From the position of the promoter, I must look into that with the amendments and additions to this law, cultural heritage in Croatia will not be compromised. Cultural heritage in Croatia and the total meaning of culture and everything that is in the power of this ministry in terms of who made and proposed this law still adheres to these border targets always 1% compared to the total state budget. When we look at the amount, the debates today were being held, and the thesis means that these are, in fact, significantly reduced resources. No, I don't. These funds are no less than the funds so far, only the structure of the budget is different, so here one segment of investment also covers projects to protect and preserve cultural heritage. Not to mention projects that are also particularly reflected in the structure of the budget such as large, significant protection, preservation, presentation of Vukovar, Vukodol, Ilocka, that I am not talking about some donations which, to this extent, have not been mentioned at present, I will only mention a renewal and donation for the Kaboga summer house of more than 20 million kunas in Dubrovnik, and everything else means neither the Ministry of Culture, and neither this government, nor with any changes to this law, will question and destabilise cultural heritage. The devastation of cultural heritage took place by the aggressors in the Homeland War and the full amount of such a monumental rent has helped greatly to restore the monuments, but at this point this ministry thanks to everyone, because from all these discussions we have the feeling that there is still a concern in the background of cultural heritage, on this part absolutely acceptable to us, however, the sensitivity of the social and economic at this point in the context of this government must also have this ministry. In the end, I thank again for all the discussions that will benefit us in particular in the context of the development and reference in the procedure of these new amendments and the addition of the law, i.e. possibly a new law. I thank you for the debates, and I ask you to support the amendments and additions to this law in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55551	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55552	8. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 547. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law. In accordance with Article 169 of the Treaty on the I am giving the Rules of Procedure the final draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 80 votes for, 8 abstentions and 25 against, together with the amendments adopted. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture proposed to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: It undertakes the Ministry of Culture to produce, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to refer this year to the Croatian Assembly a proposal to amend and supplement existing provisions, i.e. the adoption of a separate law that would adequately regulate the issue of monumental rent on a permanent basis, starting with the need and possibility of protecting cultural goods and monuments on improved budgetary and economic occasions. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted this proposal as a conclusion. I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by a majority of 115 votes in favour and 1 abstention, nothing against the text proposed by the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55553	We move to the next point - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the provision of services in tourism, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 567 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law and Tourism. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism Ivo Mujo will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55554	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Chairman, esteemed parliamentary representatives. There is also a third in a series of tourist laws that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has sent to the parliamentary procedure. Yesterday we discussed the law, amendments and additions to the Law on the provision of services in the catering activity, and today we have before us the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the provision of services in tourism. With these amendments and additions to the law that was originally passed in 2007, the government wants to achieve three fundamental goals, which is to raise the standard of quality of the tourist offer, revive the rural areas of the Republic of Croatia and prevent the grey economy. And I'm going to briefly just look back at these three fundamental changes that are defined by these amendments and amendments to the law. In fact, the law allows the tourist agencies they have and who want to be DMC destination management of the company and PCO, so professional organisers of the congress may be subject to conditions prescribed by the Minister's special regulation. This supplement in the name of the agency will mean that we will comply with our competing countries and will mean that we will be able to control the real quality of services that such agencies in the Republic of Croatia can provide. A set of changes related to rural tourism is a continuation of the liberalisation of regulations aimed at encouraging entrepreneurs in rural areas, i.e. family farms that can and want to deal with rural tourism. Only this is a tourist aspect, an aspect of tourism activity, and in previous law it was an aspect of hospitality. In addition to a series of amendments to this law, it is defined that family farms dealing with rural tourism can organize accommodation services for their guests, so that for their guests who are now in increased numbers, it was before the number of 50 is now the number of 80, and five times a year and a lot more when it comes to events or events with previous announcements, they can organize their guests not only a tour of their family farm estate, but also a tour of other such facilities and other facilities in the environment. Because we have noticed that there is a great interest in family farms and we have noticed that they are even doing such things to a certain extent, and now we want to put it in the legal frameworks and encourage those who do not have such an offer to make such an offer and define it. And finally, several articles relating to preventing the gray economy. This law defines that anyone who advertises his tourist offer, and there is no reason why the solution to the offence is. Anyone who presents himself as a tourist agency, and has not therefore received a solution, has committed a violation as well as all those who do so under the laws and regulations of the Republic of Croatia in this part, the economic inspector is much more efficient and more efficient to make a solution, and this is an oral solution in the record and determine the amount and the amount of punishment. We want to encourage these provisions to all those who are legally working, all those who are working and the vast majority are those who work in accordance with the legal regulations to further motivate them. And of course with these three fundamental groups of changes, we have a few other minor adjustments where, for example, we replace the parent numbers with the OIBs and other details that are clearly defined in the document on amendments and additions to the law, I don't want to go into all the details. I will also point out that the Ministry of Tourism in drawing up the draft itself before going to the government has brought together all proposals and changes with professional associations and institutions. And that the amendments to this law will not require the provision of additional funds in the Republic of Croatia's budget. And chairing, if you may, two amendments to this House have been passed on to the Committee on Legislatives. Both amendments are of legal nomotechnical nature, and on behalf of the promoter, I can say that we accept both amendments to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55555	Thank you. The committee's reporters? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club Mr. Gary Cappelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55556	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honors Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'd be more pleased if we could talk about tourist issues a little sooner. Now that we have more than 1.5 million tourist arrivals and almost 5 million overnight stays, 53% of which is reached in May, or 745 thousand practically 60%, or almost 3 million overnight stays where we have 6% less guest arrivals but 2% more overnight than in the same last year's month. So we can safely say that in this situation in the environment we have in the beginning quite good indicators for the continuation of the tourist season. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law after the Croatian Parliament adopted a Law on the provision of services in tourism in September 2007, which provides the means and conditions for the provision of these services, the need for a new law has emerged mainly because of the perceived appearance of advertising, i.e. advertising of illegal tourism provision. Directly or indirectly through public messages, Internet, promotional material or the like. Today, we have the opportunity to discuss amendments to the Law on the provision of services in tourism that suggest that such advertising be prescribed to the banned, and to prescribe fines in a wide range depending on the category of violations up to as much as 150 thousand kuna for such treatment. In order to create the possibility of specialising and identifying certain tourist agencies on the market as commercial companies for the management of the destination and professional organisers of congress, it is proposed to provide the possibility of a Minister of Tourism, to prescribe additional conditions for such tourist agencies that perform jobs and provide tourist services in the function of managing the destination and or organisation of congress so that, with the approval of the minister, they can use the standards of the usual agency business, such as DMC destination management company or company for the management of the destination. Or PSO therefore professional congress organization. The activities of the tourist agency in connection with the management of the destination and the organisation of the congress are both demanding and significant for the tourism development of certain destinations and needs of the market and for the proper protection of consumers, and it is assessed that the conditions for their implementation should be further regulated. I have made another observation perhaps during the Committee itself that it should be observed as well, we know that the Internal Affairs Act guides or representatives of tourist agencies working and staying for 3.4 months in the territory of Croatia are authorised to carry out this activity temporarily. However, foreign buses, foreign agencies use their guides and distort any path and history and geography of the Republic of Croatia so that in some ways, they care not to allow it because from some of the experiences of our neighbouring countries, even in handcuffs, those who lead from other countries in their country lead groups on excursions. It is also proposed to provide family, agricultural, economic and forest services, not only those covered by the law, in order to expand the range of such services and enrich the tourist offer of rural areas. It is thus proposed to allow agricultural, forestry, sports-recreative, educational and similar activities related to the rural economy to be carried out in rural households. So, taking part in agricultural activities, the work that these families do at the time, such as fruit harvesting, vegetables, harvesting summers, hunting and fishing, riding by carriages, etc. The rental therefore also has the means, accessories of various and similar presentations of the agricultural economy and of natural and cultural values in the context of the same visit to registered private ethnicities, so that it is possible for these peasant households to work in some way and excursions outside their circle, so the rural household itself. It is also proposed that the conditions for issuing a solution for the provision of tourist services must be met by the holder or member of the family holding to be the right to use the facility and/or land in which the services are to be provided, unlike the present conditions, that it must be owned by the same which has been assessed as limiting to the development of rural tourism because it took a long time to resolve the property-legislative issue. In order to improve the effectiveness of inspection and to reduce the grey economy in providing services in tourism, certain changes in the powers of economic inspectors during supervision have been proposed, as well as certain amendments to the criminal provisions of the law. The proposed amendments and additions will allow for the improvement of some solutions to the applicable law which should result in an increase in the diversity of the tourist offer, facilitating business for economic operators, certain simplifications of the rules and more precise delivery of provisions, as well as more effective repression of the grey economy. The adoption of this law under an emergency procedure will allow for, among other things, legalisation of the law of unsupervised services in tourism, which are nevertheless provided for by this more effective repression of the existing grey economy. It is particularly important to prohibit advertising of unregistered services in tourism, which we have a full flood of what will protect the state budget, the budget of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government and income, which is the most important system of tourist communities. The quality of services for end-users is also guaranteed, suppressing unfair competition for unregistered service providers, and all for this tourist season, which is why this law needs to be passed by emergency procedure. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this law with the two amendments mentioned by the State Secretary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55557	Thank you. HSS representative's club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55558	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party's Club will support the adoption of amendments and additions to the Tourism Service Act as it will enable legalisation of the present, now unsecured services in tourism, more effective management of the gray economy, combating unfair competition and easier business for economic and other entities. According to research, the socioeconomic factors of public mobility in the rural area of Croatia and the City of Zagreb, which were conducted by the Faculty of Agriculture at the University of Zagreb in the rural area of the Republic of Croatia, are 29.8% of unemployed. This law will contribute to the self-employment and remaining of young families in the Croatian village because this law removes obstacles to the development of rural tourism, but this law will also encourage all those who work legally and in accordance with the law to continue to do so because it is only worth it. Rural tourism is a significant factor in the activation and sustainable development of rural areas that helps preserve local identity, tradition and customs, protects the environment, strengthens indigenous traditional and ecological production and helps develop rural areas based on sustainable development, so we can rightly call it the future of world tourism. One of the fundamental advantages of Croatia is the climate and cultural diversity of the area. This results in a wealth of traditional products and traditional dishes. Some of them have export potential, such as Slavonic domestic tower, Istrian and Dalmatian ham, Zagorje turkey, Croatian youth Juneine, Slavonic plump, Pag cheese, dingač, šrilet, Babić, honey, olive oil and pumpkin oil, Zagorje strukles and others. Production and marketing of traditional and innovative products should be encouraged through domestic sales and offers on the family rural economy in rural tourism, and, of course, conditions should be provided for which these amendments and additions of the law will contribute. The importance of rural tourism is primarily reflected in the very important interaction of agricultural production, the production of traditional products, the presentation of tradition, traditional gastronomy and tourist services. Once worded, using already existing resources. The development of rural tourism is also based on sustainable development. This is reflected in the revitalization of the already existing traditional building, i.e. the heritage of which is given a new purpose and the touristic one. At a time when much is said, it writes and discusses the upper limit of building objects intended for tourism, when there is a very high pressure on space due to the construction of new capacitates, rural tourism is completely in a different way trying to unite, restore and organise space. Rural tourism does not need to build new capacities but, in fact, meets the challenges of using the existing structures in the best and most qualitative way. In order to enrich the tourist offer of rural areas, this law proposes to enable family farms to provide some more tourist services besides already covered by the applicable law, thus enabling the organisation of a programme of creative and educational workshops related to agriculture and traditional crafts, presentation of the agricultural economy, and natural and cultural values within the same, the organisation of visits to registered private ethnic collections, the organisation of excursions for guests who use accommodation services in the rural economy. It was also introduced to issue a solution to the holder or a member of the family holding with the right to use, of course, an object or land in which services are provided in contrast to the conditions so far, and this was owned by a kind of restriction. In rural tourism economies earn through direct sales and catering services. Croatia has great opportunities to develop rural tourism, as well as all other forms of tourism in the rural area. With our basic natural advantages we also have the Adriatic Sea with the current 60 million overnight tourists per year. What potential it is and how it can be exploited is best shown by Istria. However, almost equal if not greater potential have rural areas along the Adriatic coast, those areas which are close to the most important roads for tourists to come to the Adriatic. The one located near national parks and nature parks, but also the one in the country's interior. However, the assumption of the arrival of a modern tourist is the creation of an attractive tourist destination. The paper in the law is that the tourism minister can also prescribe additional conditions for travel agencies to use common shortcuts in agency business for the management of the destination and as professional organisers of the congress. In this respect, the activities of the management of the destination and business of the professional organisers of the congress are demanding and significant jobs both for the development of a specific destination and for the needs of the market and for the protection of consumers, and it is estimated that there is a need to regulate further the conditions for their implementation. It also enables specialisation and visibility of tourist agencies on the market. Management of the destination is one of the key factors of future development and competitiveness of Croatian tourism and it is a good time to start professionalising destination management in Croatia. This will help local tourist destinations, and now more than ever, a quality policy of supply management, promotion and product sales is needed. This law also covers the fight against the gray economy as well as sanctioning black-handed owners, including a large number of foreign citizens who are illegally renting, but legally advertising the service especially on the internet. The grey market cannot be tolerated, as it harms the state budget and also damages local budgets. Therefore, this law aims at zero tolerance for the gray economy and we at the HSS Club will support its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55559	Thank you. HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55560	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have already said a whole series of relevant considerations and assessments about this complex issue even yesterday when we actually participated in the debate on liberalising the conditions in providing catering services, so this law actually, i.e. the proposal for a law relying on this fundamental intensity that through several very strong changes and additions of legal texts the space of creation, action, and if we want to say entrepreneurial security in what we call rural tourism. And of course today we have on the table and one innovation that applies primarily to intermediaries in providing tourist services, which are tourist agencies. All that is said about the need to strengthen rural tourism, above all about putting into operation all available capacities, that those parts of Croatia that have not yet been valorised in the tourist and catering sense indeed and make such things stand and I do not see that any party in the Croatian Parliament in this sense had any doubts. The fact is that this High House can help with its concrete action in amending the regulations that we know is not sufficiently developed especially in the continental part of Croatia, as we would like and has not been developed at the level of what we see in other our competitors in the region. So, to raise that level. However, as I said yesterday, and now I will repeat, it seems to me that the liberalisation of these conditions is not enough and that, above all, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which means then the Ministry of Tourism, but I would not elaborate on the role of the Croatian Tourist Community, and the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction of Development would have to build a strategy through which, by means of financial means, support, in particular with favourable loans, such a type of building and maintaining capacity in the rural part of Croatia, which could be established on a longer term, so a model of sustainable development. This certainly includes the revitalisation of the construction heritage, because much of our country still suffers from the lack of sufficient financial resources, and in many cases the unresolved property-legal relations that prevents the now abandoned or abandoned villages of the Dalmatian Zagora but also parts of Like, Kordun, Banija, and some other parts of the Republic of Croatia from being put more, more quality and more directly, into the function of building or designing accommodation and catering facilities in which those benefits that could directly help people in the local community live for a whole year than their work. But not just from their work, but from the land they live on. Because this means revitalisation of livestock, revitalisation of agricultural activities, and not on large areas, but on areas that are sufficient to serve the peasant economy, or economies that function as a tourist catering offer. The liberalisation we are witnessing through the amendments and additions of these two laws yesterday and today will certainly help. But it would be far better if each county had room for action and for strategic thinking about how to put these resources into operation and how to encourage young people to return to their grandfatherhood and to design on their grandfather such entrepreneurial initiatives that will benefit them, their families, and the local community. We can learn a lot from the example in Istria that I had just recently been able to visit, not just me, but also from all the members of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired Party Club, just on a study tour of the interior of Istria where we actually wanted to see how cultural, tourist catering offer works in those places that were all recently abandoned and abandoned, which today look completely different, where life is coming back, where entrepreneurial initiatives rise to that level that enables all year-round life and work and that raise the general standard of life of people in continental or perhaps more correctly to the inner part of Istria. We can learn a lot from them, and I suppose these models that liberalise these two key regulations for tourism and hospitality have followed these kinds of experiences and followed the results that have already been achieved. It is a great obligation for us to, in our thinking of the development of the Republic of Croatia, not only to forget the Dalmatian Zagora, and to establish such sustainable development models throughout the region from Knin to Konavala, which will enable us not only to place Dalmatia in its coastal part as a tourist destination, but also to place these abandoned, abandoned, often and at first sight of nobody's capacities of old stone villages in the function of hospitality and tourism. We also welcome the intention of the Ministry of Tourism to define two new concepts already present in practice in the Republic of Croatia, which is a question of management of a tourist destination that is not only a theoretical issue, but is also a question of practical participation in such a demanding business, where the great role is certainly given to tourist agencies. Tourist agencies, especially those gathered in the association of Croatian travel agencies, are experiencing a certain transformation, and we already have a case that some of the largest and strongest tourist agencies are already called the travel destination management companies. It is good that we help them to know exactly what it means and that licensing to perform this type of activity is arranged, so that they, in their own way, and within their development plans, can be well, quality co-ordinated with all other factors of the development of a tourist destination, and among them are local authorities, certainly also providers of all kinds of catering, tourist and other so-called. out-of-board services, including local tourist communities. Therefore, tourist agencies are given a chance to officially reach their names through an orderly system, or names that will legitimize them as capacitated companies, which focus on management or management of a tourist destination. We haven't formally seen this before, but certainly our large agencies are on the international market and through such names, or clarifications of their economic roles, i.e. the entrepreneurial profiles, and so far I say legitimate. It is equally good that the Ministry of Tourism gives the opportunity to profile congress tourism organizers, because we know very well that it is one of the biggest, that it is one of the biggest challenges of Croatian tourism, so it is precisely the fact that the capacities are suitable for the development of congress tourism, but also quality organisers are a deficiting thing in the structure of tourist organizers and mediators in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, our capacities that are adjusted or defined or re-built to provide services in congress tourism may be counted on the entire coast on the fingers of one hand. From a new hotel complex in Savudrija, to a hotel in Cavtat, but between that there are not many such facilities that would guarantee that Dalmatia in particular islands that the coast can live and function throughout the year with high quality, so if we want to say expensive forms of tourist offer, because congress tourism certainly is. It would be a good idea to continue several times, in coordination with the development and definition of the spatial plans of our coastal counties, to know exactly what areas and what capacities we can build with Congress tourism. In this sense, the award of the title of the organizer of congress tourism is certainly not enough for the tourist agency. This is one of the steps in this direction, but it certainly is not enough because the development of congress tourism depends on a whole series of factors and is extremely demanding, but as everyone who deals with tourism is very profitable and has a very strong so-called. investment cycle, profitable investment cycle. It is good that the organisation of a congress is therefore dealing with licensed agencies that can meet the challenges and needs of the standards, which are imposed in this branch of tourism, because it is mainly about guests of high wage power, guests of extremely high demand, and guests who are mainly related to the business of events we call congresses and similar events. In this sense, it is important that those who know how to do this are professionally, highly professionally, that this process be given and controlled, compared and evaluated, because Croatia has room for the development of a whole range of tourist forms, this is one of them, and in this sense we welcome the efforts of the Ministry of Tourism to help in these segments, i.e. management of a tourist destination, i.e. the tourist destination of congress organisations, or standardisation of those who do so, and, in particular, the development of all forms that contribute to rural tourism, thus helping in these three segments, inter alia, changes and additions to existing legislation. In this respect, the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Retirement Party will support amendments and additions to the Tourism Service Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55561	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Voluntary resignation before commencement. Mr. Representative Ivan Škaričić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55562	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Proposal for a Law on the provision of services in tourism The Croatian Parliament, i.e. the law was passed in September 2007, and now some shortcomings have been observed, and it is necessary to approach certain amendments and additions in this regard. That's how you do it, for example. In Article 1, it proposes to prescribe a ban on advertising or advertising of the provision of services in the tourism pathways of public messages, the Internet and the like, all in order to prevent the gray economy. In fact, it has been noted that these types of advertising have indeed taken hold without effective sanctions against them. A significant change in Articles 3 and 4 is also that now the person providing services in the agricultural peasant economy does not have to be the owner of that land at the same time. So they are more likely to develop this kind of tourism, because it has also been seen to be a limiting factor, and it is perfectly normal and logical that someone can rent land and deal with this kind of tourism. It is also proposed that a member of the rural peasant economy, therefore, be assisted by other members of the same economy, which is also a very logical solution for me. As regards penalties, they are precisely regulated as fines, and the offenders are introduced for the first time and the possibility of confiscation of the property benefits they have acquired and obtained in dealing with this activity. So these are just some of the details I pulled out because there was a talk about it before. All in all this law and these amendments and additions will bring improvement in the course of this activity, and I will support it in that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55563	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55564	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's this law on amendments and amendments to the law to say a few words even though in these two days I think we've talked a lot about tourism and it obviously started well when we're passing laws now at the beginning of the season. Here it is important to say about this law that in the law passed in 2007 it has been seen during these three years that certain activities provided in tourism particularly in rural tourism in rural households were not legally envisaged and if they were provided I think it is good to legalise them. Mostly for the reason that tourism service providers, especially in rural households, have on several occasions asked for such services to be prescribed in the law so that they can be legally provided. On the other hand, it is not irrelevant that these amendments to the law prevent the grey economy from providing tourism services, as we see from the criminal provisions provided for. Of course, what all those who deal with tourism had the biggest objections, which is when there is unfair competition. Indemnity competition exists if someone carries out activities outside the law or is not registered for that activity. But what I would particularly point out here and what I find extremely important in these amendments to the law, it is from the field of tourist agencies. And an article that says that the minister of the regulation can determine the activity of the travel agency, i.e. better said narrow specialisation of agencies, where he will prescribe both equipment and professional people who will run the agency, and especially that is good for managing destinations. But I think it is extremely important for Croatia as a tourist country to rewrite the conditions of professional organisers of a congress of agencies that can do so. I will say from the branch that almost in all activities has the most congress events, education, work shops in the world, it is health and medicine, where the pharmaceutical industry does not save money to develop congress tourism. And by entering the Republic of Croatia into the European Union I think there are great opportunities for the development of congress tourism, which at the moment Croatia may be exploiting the possibility of congress tourism below 10%. Because all of us who walk, and often we are in conventions in the world, see that they are really not tourists but people who have been sent by someone to learn something. Congresses last about seven days, that are extremely demanding, as Mr. Beus said, but exceptional payment opportunities. And so in this form of tourism, if we make a good plan, let's work it out, Mr. Secretary of State, that a rule that is really and partly rigorous in approval or called a professional organiser of Congress. Because we had opportunities when Croatia hosted some convention that the flood was agencies offered at the competition. You have to choose the cheapest it's under the Public Procurement Act. And what happens? We experience the fiasco of such an event, a convention, and it does not matter what kind of message we send to the world and those participants of the convention. And I think there is a great chance for tourism in the Republic of Croatia throughout the year. And of course I will support this part of the rural households, because I come from Karlovac County, which is the county with the largest number of overnight stays in continental tourism in the Republic of Croatia, not counting the city of Zagreb. And this is how one legislative regulation is the initiative of people who are engaged in this activity in the Karlova County and they absolutely welcome this. And based on all that's been said, I will absolutely support the amendments and the adoption of such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55565	Thank you. Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55566	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will support these amendments and additions to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the provision of services in tourism, in the first place, as it opens up the possibility of developing rural space in such a way as to enable family farms to provide additional services in order to expand the range of such services, but also to enrich the tourist offer of rural areas, but also the total of the Republic of Croatia. Additional services relate primarily to the implementation of the programme of creative and educational workshops related to agriculture, traditional crafts and the like, then to the presentation of the agricultural economy and natural and cultural values within the same, to the organisation of trips to guests who use accommodation services in rural households. I also hold a good change that says that in order to provide services in rural households, it does not necessarily have to be owned by an object or land on which services will be provided can already be the person who has the right to use the property or land. This has so far been a significant limiting factor for the development of tourism in the rural area. We heard yesterday that it only means 262 rural households in the Republic of Croatia to provide tourism services in these areas, and I will remind you that the Republic of Croatia has more than 90% rural areas and vast untapped potential for rural tourism development. The importance of this type of tourism is reflected in the very important interaction of agricultural production, the production of traditional village products, the presentation of tradition and traditional gastronomy and tourist services, the use of everything we have in significant quantities and exceptional quality. This also means opening opportunities means revitalising the already existing traditional building or heritage in which one new purpose is given to this space, it is touristic. Rural tourism, especially tourism in rural economies, must be seen as an essential component of the overall sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia. Although rural tourism has so far not been given the necessary importance, given the importance it has in creating new values in rural areas, there have been interests in both countries and local and regional self-government, entrepreneurs of individual, individual institutions and for the development and promotion of this activity. So I will just remind myself of the Rural Tourism Declaration signed by most Croatian counties, many institutions and institutions in Benkovec in 2008. I expect that this amendment, along with the amendments to the Law on Food Activity that we discussed here in the Parliament yesterday, will create better conditions for the greater interest of peasant households to deal with tourism, to live on tourism and to give a new dimension to rural space, but also a new dimension to tourism of the Republic of Croatia. The second change in this proposal concerns improving the quality of the agencies as significant entities in tourism, of course with all those conditions met, while fellow Strikic also said harsher, more rigorous conditions. So, it is possible to use company shortcuts to manage the destination, as well as professional organisers of the congress, which I believe will again contribute to the quality of tourist agencies, as well as to put our tourist agencies in an equal position with agencies in the environment dealing with tourism. I also support the provisions relating to improving the effectiveness of inspection controls and reducing the grey economy in carrying out all tourist activities, also amending criminal provisions, but also more precise expressions of certain provisions. There are some other areas related to the provision of services in tourism, including the tourism committee where some areas should be arranged. Here's to mention only two, it's amateur diving, but guides also mean sides that come into our country and its values and cultural and historical represent in their own way. And on the other hand, we have licensed our tourist guides that we should trust with this job. Here's what I'm going to do with these suggestions. I'm going to finish my presentation and support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55567	Thank you. Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55568	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. Here I join those who today support the amendments and additions of this law for all the reasons that have been said here, and especially for improving the quality of the service, and as regards compliance with our competing countries, which the Secretary of State has already spoken of. What is especially to welcome is that agencies will, with the indication, be legitimate and be licensed by the minister with the key Destination Management Management Company and these others relating to the professional organisation of congress. I think it's one big step and it'll give these agencies extra weight. As far as rural households are concerned, in any case I support this part of which I consider to be a major step forward and progress, and it is a carrier or a member of a family economy that must not be owned but a user or concessionary which enables easier business and in any case motivates rural households and citizens of Croatia living in the rural area to deal with this activity. The same thing we talked about yesterday at the Household Activity Act is increasing the number of people who can organize groups from 50 to 80. There is definitely more motivation, it also takes care of tradition, the preservation of landscapes, and, in particular, the sustainable development that we are constantly talking about. What's important is that this rural or rural tourism is not being built, it's mostly not building new capacities but using existing facilities, and the heritage is revitalising and getting a new purpose, this time touristic. It is also important to mention this third component that you are changing, which is a grey market that is definitely being reduced because the grey market damages both the state budget and the local budgets, and I believe that these measures that we introduced yesterday in that Housekeeping Act will significantly improve and reduce the grey economy, because economic inspectors are getting more power today. What I specifically reported for, of course, I support this law, is this part of the section relating to tourist guides. I have been contacted several times by the president of the Association of Croatian Guides and the president of the Dubrovnik Guide Association with the observation that illegal guides from neighbouring Montenegro work in the area of our cities, especially in the Dubrovnik area. It's not a problem that they're from abroad. I see that in the criminal provisions you have clearly stated here that the competent authority of the State Inspectorate should be notified first and under these conditions I can do the job. Therefore, it must have, in accordance with the approval granted as referred to in Article 65. However, it is a matter of preventing, above all, the gray economy from being in this area, and another reason is the distortion of historical facts. Especially sensitive is the area of the latest history of Dubrovnik. You know there are three panels in the city at three entrances to the city where all the facilities, monuments, houses that have been hit, and there are more than 2,000 hits during the Serbian-Montenegrin aggression on Dubrovnik. And all the guides that lead to the city, I'm talking about our guides is first at the entrance to the city showing that board and there goes the city view. Now you can imagine what a guide from Montenegro is talking about in that place, and I think that you Mr. Secretary of State, since we come from the same area, I think you should, as the Committee on Tourism and in the debate today, have put in place provisions that are definitely preventing the legal work of foreign tourist guides because we have enough of our guides who are out of business. I think, in that sense, maybe we should take a closer look at this article in 65, how to regulate it. Because what is an inspection that controls what the guides during the city's review speak to foreign tourists. I think this is important, and that's why I answered the most. But all in all, I support the motion to amend and supplement this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55569	Thank you. And final review by Secretary of State Ivo Mujo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55570	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, here's my thanks for the debate and for the support you've put forward regarding the amendment and addition of this law. I'll consider, in particular, what was last said, so let's see if it's possible, or if there's any need to define this thing by any other amendment. I just want to point out a few things so it doesn't stay unsaid, because here it's said that the ministry, that it's not enough for the development of rural tourism, just to amend and supplement the law. I emphasized it, and I emphasize it again. In the time behind us, the ministry is the most favourable credit line in the Republic of Croatia, which is allocated up to 300,000 euros and we have shared over 100 such loans for the development of tourism in the country. We have been in the past, and in the future we share grants for the development of rural tourism through the Bastina programmes, the Green Brad and other programmes, and we are coordinating the distribution of funds from the Ministry of Agriculture for this purpose, and especially one that will come in the ninth month of the IPARD programme and we have spent systematic education of entrepreneurs in rural areas who intend to and who plan to start this business. And of course, after the adoption, after the vote of these legal provisions, the tourism ministry will, as soon as possible, draft, amend or liberalise the rules that follow this law so that it can then be operationally applied as soon as possible and as best as possible on the ground. Here's another thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55571	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55572	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the provision of services in tourism. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 567. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft of the law. In accordance with Article 169 of the Treaty on the I am giving the Rules of Procedure the final draft law on amendments to the Law on the provision of services in tourism. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 109 votes for, 4 abstentions, nothing against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55573	We move to the next point - Final draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the judicial sector support project, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 566. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Justice, Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Justice Ministry Tatjana Vučetic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55574	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored MPs and MPs. This legislative proposal lays down a loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a project to support the judicial sector in order to make its provisions and in accordance with Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The aim of the project is to support the strengthening of the effectiveness of the judicial system, and faster implementation of reform measures aimed at adapting the justice system to European Union standards. The project consists of the following parts: strengthening the efficiency of the judicial system, strengthening the effectiveness of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, strengthening the management capacity of the Ministry of Justice, and implementing the project and monitoring the results achieved. Strengthening the efficiency of the judicial system will focus on enabling the implementation of the court network rationalisation plan through capital investments in selected courts buildings, strengthening the ability to manage courts, strengthening the ability to manage judicial proceedings, improving the information systems needed to manage court proceedings and courts, reducing the duration of court proceedings, and improving the system of enforcement. Strengthening the effectiveness of the Croatian State Attorney's Office includes a programme of activities that will focus on three reform groups. Support for the rationalisation of the network of state attorneys through capital investments in selected buildings, strengthening the organisational and procedural capacities of the State's attorney, and adapting to the new legal framework, improving and introducing information systems for management in the State's Attorney's Office. Strengthening the management capabilities of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia through the improvement of management based on available resources and results, the improvement of management, information systems, and the strengthening of the management capabilities of the Ministry of Justice. The chronology of conduct went like this. On 11 February 2010, a decision was taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of the loan agreement. On 17 February 2010, negotiations on a loan agreement followed between the authorised delegations of the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development held in Zagreb. On 25 February 2010, the Government of the Republic of Croatia concluded the adoption of a report with negotiations and the authorisation to sign a loan agreement. On 6 April 2010, the Management Board of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development approved the financing of the proposed project. The signing of the loan agreement in Zagreb followed on 13 April 2010. The contract was signed by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Minister of Finance Mr. Shuker and by the Head of the World Bank Office in Zagreb. On 13 July 2010, it is time to confirm the loan agreement in order to make it a condition for the withdrawal of funds per loan. The project provides capital investments necessary for the implementation of the plan for the rationalisation of the network of courts and state lawyers in accordance with the relevant legal rules, such as the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts and the Law on Areas and Seats of State Lawyers. The planned investments focus on some of the most significant and large in a series of criteria for judicial facilities. The buildings of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and the USKOK-s in Zagreb, the municipal court building in Split, which has been operating in inadequate conditions for many years and are taking part in a significant process in the total number of outstanding cases in the Republic of Croatia and the second largest court in the Republic of Croatia, the building of judicial bodies in Karlovac, the new premises of the municipal, state and county state attorney's office in Pula. In line with the strategy of judicial reform and the action plan, it is invested in further improving and introducing IT systems in the business of courts and state attorneys and equipping the same, analysis, recommendations and education for improving the management of the justice system, judicial authorities, individual procedures, financial management of the judicial system, improving the management of the real estate portfolio in the judiciary and the like. The total value of the project was estimated at 27.9m euros, of which 26m euros are guaranteed by the World Bank loan and 1.9m euros, so about 7 and a half percent from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. The terms of the loan are as follows, the amount is 26 million, the implementation is 5 years, the interest is fixed 6 months of the euro, plus the margin, meaning 1.94%, the initial fee is 0.25 and 50 thousand euros, the payment deadline is one-time on the day of 15 October 2027. In the entry into the loan agreement on a loan to be granted by the Kingdom of the Netherlands gifts amounting to EUR 800 000 for individual components of the project, improving the implementation, selecting indicators of the justice system's success, financial management. The Ministry of Justice is fully prepared and organised for the implementation of the project and the implementation of the first tenders immediately after the entry into force of the loan agreement. All preconditions agreed with the World Bank are met. A project implementation unit has been established, the advisory council of the project to monitor the implementation of the project, consisting of the minister of justice, the president of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, the chief state attorney, the heads of the involved judicial bodies, the director of the administration of the Ministry of Justice, representatives of the Ministry of Finance and others. On the basis of all of this, we propose that this proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty of Loans for a project to support the judicial sector be adopted, so that the Ministry of Justice can begin with the implementation of project activities as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55575	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. Josip Salapic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55576	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a Support Project for the Justice Sector with a final draft of the law. Before I comment on the law in front of the HDZ Club, we discussed a report by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia in this House a few months ago and other issues where the effectiveness in the research and judicial process of criminal acts is expected, except for those issues concerning the issue of human resources of the State's Attorney's Office, human needs and the like, is particularly highlighted in the part of the business space and equipment and the information of the State's Attorney's Office. Given that we have changed the Criminal Procedure Act, the State's Attorney's Office's report states that most of the business premises have been worn out and investment investments are necessary. The state's attorney's office of the Republic of Croatia and the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime also have difficulties in space for work. For quality work and management of the State Attorney's Office as a whole, and for the purposes of the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, we need additional space. In addition to information, IT equipment is said to be becoming a bigger and burning problem, without appropriate programmes, it is not possible to further improve work, and in particular to monitor and monitor the work of both the State's attorneys and individual officials. I pointed out this above all that this proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty of Loans brings a very important and strong momentum and to the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and the judicial authorities and the Ministry of Justice in one organised and quality implementation of the Government of Croatia programme, which is to combat corruption and organised crime and increase the effectiveness of the Croatian judiciary prior to the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. It is also particularly important here to stress that the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has been going on in quality since 1993, and our country has so far withdrawn 46 loans worth 2.1 million euros, and 51 gifts worth 72 million US dollars. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is also one of the most important financial institutions that has been monitoring economic, social development and all reforms in the Republic of Croatia since 1993, especially in these times when our country is before joining the European Union. The proposed bill is also in line with the partnership strategy between the World Bank and the Republic of Croatia, where you are expected to be in a four-year loan programme in the Republic of Croatia to approve from $1 to 1.4 billion, depending on the conditions and needs of how much the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be able to withdraw funds from the World Bank. The proposed law before us is in line with the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision of 11 February 2010, and the contract itself was signed by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Mr Schuker on 13 April 2010. Today, this bill is before the Croatian Parliament. We will, of course, support him as the Croatian Democratic Community Club. The aim of this law is primarily to strengthen the efficiency and support of the judicial sector in the Republic of Croatia, to implement judicial reform faster, and to adapt the judicial system of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union justice system. The total value of the loan is 26m euros with this additional donation from the Kingdom of the Netherlands, and with the funds the Government of the Republic of Croatia will add to this project, the total is 27.9m euros. We adopt this law by an urgent procedure, first of all, that the terms of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are met, and that there is also a date on which we must adopt the law in order to be able to withdraw the funds proposed under this law. The loan will be paid from 2010 to 2027. All funds that will be spent will be strictly controlled by the World Bank Management Board, an office in Zagreb. I would point out once again that this law is essential to the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian judiciary because of all those conditions and because of all the measures outlined here as measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we stressed in the Croatian Parliament, which is an effective Croatian judiciary in the European Union, an effective fight against corruption, crime and organised crime, and protection of interest both for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and for the property of the Republic of Croatia. The funds provided for will be spent on those facilities, those courts and those systems both in the judicial sector and in the State's attorney's office which are necessary for those outlined tasks that we, as representatives of the Parliament, ask our judiciary and institutions implementing the laws of the Republic of Croatia, to create conditions and provide the means and equipment necessary for the results to be as expected by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to this planned programme against corruption and organised crime. I find the law extremely important. We have heard all the problems that the Croatian judiciary today is problems with the State's Attorney's Office, the problems we have in the staff of the judiciary and the judicial authorities we consider necessary and HDZ supports the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55577	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55578	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is a unique occasion when the Croatian Parliament decides on the responsibility of the Republic of Croatia. Usually those decisions are made elsewhere. And we're not happy with them, and we can't even control them. However, this is a case in which it is unique and likely that all representatives' clubs will support not only a 27.9m-euro project, but also a 26m-euro loan to the International Bank. And there's a whole series of reasons for that. But allow me before I say something on behalf of the HNS and HSU club about the bill itself, let me give one criticism to the promoter. In fact, it has settled, and it is not good for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to send legislative proposals with such arguments, which do not show what is really relevant. The school example was yesterday when we discussed the contract with the Russian Federation on the construction of the pipeline, where the secretary of state only said in her closing statement everything relevant and related to the contract. Today we have a situation very similar, that this contract follows the government's reasoning on some 4.5 pages, and that only one of the two aspects of this issue is explained in that section, which is financial. On the content aspect, because these are the two most important reasons, there are not many words, and there is not much to read from the very text of the loan agreement. But the financial aspects of this bill are more than good. The government has succeeded in agreeing with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to apply very favourable conditions for this loan because Euribor increased if we have heard well of 1.94% how much fixed interest margins are indeed the best possible source at this time, i.e. the most favourable conditions that anyone can get in the financial market at the moment. It is, of course, a specific programme, something that is particularly important to us, which certainly affects the core of a whole series of criteria that we are prescribed for the chapter of the judiciary and fundamental rights. And in that sense, we estimate that reaching agreement on the raising of this loan was very successful. Furthermore, we are very pleased that these 4 main components will finance the International Bank's funds, which improve the effectiveness of the judicial system, improve the efficiency of the State's attorney, strengthen the management function of the Ministry of Justice, and it is particularly important to support the management and implementation of the project itself, because if we knew how much this cost can read the quality or quality of these funds into the right three components. It is obvious that one part of these funds will be spent in construction works on reconstruction and reconstruction and construction of courts in Split, Karlovac, Pula or the construction of the State's Attorney's Office for the Needs of USKOK in Zagreb, or the State's Attorney's Office in Pula. It is also very important that some of the funds will be used to improve operational information systems, because we know very well that this is one of the key conditions for the functioning of courts in the Republic of Croatia. What we are also looking forward to is that one part of the funds is intended for the education of judicial staff, primarily through study trips, workshops and conferences, because the aim is to improve management resources, i.e. to improve the system of human resources management in the judicial system. So, in courts and in the state's attorney's office. But what we don't know and what we're not given is what the ratios within this 26m-euro framework are for these components in the first place. We really don't know how much these funds go to component 1, 2, 3 or 4, we don't know how much funding they're going to eventually go to construction works, and how much they're going to go to IT equipment, or improving operational IT systems, how much they're going to go to education. It's information that's very important. In this regard, I hope that the State Secretary will explain to us in her later address because it does not matter whether a huge percentage of these funds go into construction works, and only a small or miserable part of improving operational information systems and education, or it will be balanced. In any case, it should be said that the efforts of the Ministry of Justice to shape the total reform of the judiciary, to improve the system of courts are something we have welcomed since the first hour, but something which will be very rigorously questioned and through the fulfillment of the criteria in yesterday's open chapter of the judiciary and fundamental rights. We have a very important period in which to close this chapter will be very, very clear to prove that all elements of judicial reform and improvement of the judicial system in the Republic of Croatia really work as promised, that is to say, in all the elements of the reform that consist of a whole series of regulations that we have already adopted and written most of it. The can map," the old people said, but it will also be more than important by the end of this year, so by the time the chapter closes, it will give very firm assurances and guarantees that the process is going, that it is not only on paper. It is not enough what we have done in the system of evaluation of judges, obviously some things will have to be corrected and in this sense the whole area of the functioning of the judiciary as a unique space in which there is still a lot of work to be done. The Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Retired Party welcomes this proposal, asking for clarifications on the scale of the committed funds both in these four segments of the project and in these three key components. We would also be interested in how much funds will be allocated to improve the working conditions of the DORH, how many ministries and how much for just monitoring the implementation of this project. So the HNS and HSU club welcomes this proposal and we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55579	Thank you very much. There are no other club applications. We're moving on to an individual debate. ... You got it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the SDP club, representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55580	Please let it be all over the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55581	Nothing's been filled in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55582	It's better for you if I spoke individually, this way I'll be a little more decent. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports this Proposal for a Law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a judicial sector support project with a final draft of the law. As we have heard from Ms. Secretary of State's argument, most of these funds will be spent, what the judiciary needs today and these are also capital investments, except for further strengthening their management capabilities, which remains the cancer of the very judiciary itself but also all of the necessary things that every sector, each ministry and especially the judicial authorities need. It is generally known when we establish a new agency, an institution, so here I will mention only from our recent past and the FINA and the financial police, have never been questionable for personnel or space. However, for judicial authorities, regardless of which government and which personnel combination there is always this issue of separation but it is so likely, not likely, but I also have knowledge in many European countries and then beyond. Of course, good work requires a good working environment. We heard here and specifically about capital investments in which a good part of the funds would be invested, so here we had the opportunity to hear that it would be spent in the judiciary building, so both for courts and for the state's attorney's office in Split. I'm surprised because as early as 2003, the city of Split was obliged to return to the state in the name of the hotel, to give up one building. Then it was done, it was that building immediately higher than the Faculty of Law in Split and I wonder where that building went missing and to whom it was sold. A few years ago, the building was sold instead of being qualified for courts and state attorneys, or already in their mutual division. So, there was a secure building and it looks like nothing. Also in 2003, a project of the planning of this Selska began. One part was just made, today it was after seven, eight years ago it was all supposed to be operational. We should have had a judicial academy there, but it hasn't been realised yet. There's one problem that hasn't been since yesterday, namely that the state administration is using a huge amount of taxpayers' money to rent. So 19 million annual Croatian taxpayers, citizens cost renting to the government's bodies, ministries, agencies, similar institutions. This in itself would not be alarming if the state in its own possession and possession did not have an enormous number of properties staring empty and producing only water-related losses, due to electricity, communal donations. It's just, it's absurd. So, by accepting this bill to improve the state of justice in particular in capital investments, we have been surprised for years that the Ministry of Justice from its own space or space that was used free of charge at the address of the Republic of Austria where the premises in the immediate vicinity had, and the Ministry of Environmental Protection suddenly caused nothing in the great need of judicial authorities for the funds of many projects and the ministry had moved to Djezmanov to own Croatian Radio-Television for which it paid monthly approximately 335 thousand for those squares that were absolutely inadequate for the ministry itself. Nineteen million kunas were spent for resettlement and regulation alone, and many projects in the judiciary itself in improving the judiciary for the needs of courts and state lawyers and USKOK remained unrealised at the time. So in renting those squares we show really crazy squared. And no one answered for that. I would like to ask the secretary of state that this problem, which is probably Mrs. Prime Minister's, may have been promoted to draw particular attention to this because where the water savings are being promoted, millions and millions are being given here. So, please explain in this time of crisis what the government has experienced from the space used for free entry into the premises of Croatian Radio and for this month, it sets out such huge money. If that money had been passed on to the judicial authorities, we wouldn't have the need for this loan. Of course, money is never enough, especially I say in this sector that is really needed and that always gets the least. That's what needs to be put to rest. The needs also discussed by counterpart Salapic were certainly increased in view of the application of the new Criminal Procedure Act in which the State's Attorney's Office and, in particular, USKOK received investigative powers, i.e. they are conducting an investigation and of course they need new spatial capacities. I have to point out, therefore, that the proposal of what I said before and that the ministry from the free rooms didn't respond to it, and they were adequate, but they liked to pay for it I don't know why, in Djmanov. So, at the time, we brought in our own premises of the ministry so that people in the ministry, or in the rooms that were already crowded with 3, 4 employees, could bring in several people so that they could agree to the work of USKOK so that they could be united in one space for the efficiency of handling in... So, while the government is saving, it's talking about all the austerity measures, this is how I repeat a square madness with these squares not to explain anything, or something, because when it's not so clear then there are some actions that raise doubts about honesty and legality, and I would like it to be removed from the ministry itself so that it can really have full trust with citizens so that it can carry out its constitution and a certain task, especially through its judicial bodies, through courts, through state attorneys. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's good that she said, noted the secretary of state that some of the negative experiences we had in earlier periods where many loans of similar institutions were approved, contracts concluded, but no contracts were well prepared, no units were prepared for the implementation of the contract. It is a good thing that all these advances are done because it guarantees that the absolute benefit or loan will be fully used and that Croatia will benefit from this, but not from the damage. Here I am supporting this bill once again, and I am asking the State Secretary to draw attention to the Minister and the Minister, who we hear and go, but also to the one who comes, and especially to the Prime Minister to put an end to this because this has caused it, especially when it came back in 2004, so long ago or '05. It's caused a lot of public disdain. And it's just that all the austerity measures that go into the water and they don't get the credibility to save on small things, and we're missing out on big ones, and we're losing big losses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55583	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate now. A colleague, Damir Sesvečan, first checked in. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55584	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So, before us, the Law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for projects to support the judicial sector, with the final proposal of the law, which was signed on behalf of the Republic of Croatia on 13 April by Deputy Prime Minister Ivan Shuker and Andras Horvai, Head of the World Bank Office for the Republic of Croatia. The loan, as it is said, aims to achieve stronger support for the effectiveness of the judicial system in order to speed up the implementation of measures aimed at adapting the domestic justice system to the acquis and the legal standards of the European Union. The loan was agreed in accordance with the World Bank and Republic of Croatia Partnership Strategy 2009-2012 approved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 31 July 2008. This strategy with the judiciary sector, depending on the interests of the Republic of Croatia, also covers possible loans for a range of different projects in the fields of transport, energy, education, environmental protection, health, etc. So this loan in the area of justice is only one in a series of possible cases. I would like to stress that the loan subject to this contract will affect the improvement of the efficiency of the judicial system and the effectiveness of the state's attorneys and the improvement of the management capabilities of the Ministry of Justice, as stated and in an explanation of what is therefore the subject of the loan, and we will certainly agree that it is necessary and necessary. In particular, the loans plan, among other things, to regulate and adapt buildings for the needs of municipal courts in Split, Karlovac, the Municipal and County Court in Pula, to ensure access to persons with disabilities, to improve and update operational information systems, to strengthen the management of court procedures, etc. It is planned to resuscitate and restore a number of state attorneys' offices, a concrete facility of USKOK in Zagreb, and a part of the funds to invest in strengthening institutional capacities and improving the information system of the state's attorney. As regards the financial aspects of the loan itself, as is said to be 26m euros, the payment deadline is one-off, it is October 15th 2027, and the interest rate is the six-month euro library increased for the fixed interest margin, with the loan available until 30 June 2015. Therefore, given the necessity and justification of the investments subject to this loan and that this is a very favourable loan, I will support the adoption of this law in an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55585	Thank you very much. And colleague Vesna Buterin also applied for an individual hearing. Here you go, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55586	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is actually the most important international financial institution for the Republic of Croatia. It has continued to support the economic and social development of the reform, and the co-operation of the Republic of Croatia with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has much more than financial and broader significance in maintaining macroeconomic stability, achieving sustainable and accelerated economic growth and meeting the conditions for approaching the European Union. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is the most significant source of foreign financial support that contributes to the overall development of the Republic of Croatia. The significant financial resources of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the Republic of Croatia benefit from structural and investment loans under the most favourable financial conditions that this bank achieves on the international financial market. The Republic of Croatia also uses a number of gifts, technical assistance and advisory roles of the International Bank services to support economic progress and implementation of structural reforms in various areas from infrastructure, agriculture, health to banking, pension and judicial systems. The Republic of Croatia has been a full member of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development since '93. the year since it was granted a total of 46 loans of 2.1 billion euros and 51 gifts worth 72 million US dollars. The World Bank and Republic of Croatia Partnership Strategy 2009-2012 was approved in 2008, and it envisions a four-year loan programme of the Republic of Croatia of one to 1.4 billion dollars. This scenario covers loans to finance projects for the implementation of projects in the transport, energy, education, environmental protection, adaptation to climate change, and projects in health, justice and the like. The loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Rehabilitation of the Justice Sector was signed on 13 April of this year, and this law which is currently under discussion confirms whose objective this project is to support the strengthening of the effectiveness of the judicial system, and the speedy implementation of reform measures aimed at adapting the justice system to the European Union standards. This project consists of strengthening the efficiency of the judicial system, strengthening the efficiency of the Croatian State Attorney's Office, strengthening the management capabilities of the Ministry of Justice, and implementing the project and monitoring the results achieved. The total value of the project is 27.9m euros, of which 26m euros are the World Bank loan, and 1.9m euros are the funds to be provided from the state budget. The total amount of loans for the implementation of the project is therefore 26m euros. The principal loan will be paid once on 15 October 2027. The interest rate is 6-month-old Euro Libor increased by a fixed interest margin. The initial fee is 0.25% of the principal amount of the loan, and the last date available for the loan is June 30th 2015. The funds intended for this loan will be spent on the reconstruction of courts in Split, Karlovac and Pula. Then the reconstruction of the State's Attorney's Office building in Zagreb, the Pula State's Attorney's Office, and the improvement of the information system in courts. In addition to the reconstruction of 26m-euro court buildings, the World Bank's loan as the minister announced about 16m euros will also be used to improve the management of court files, modernise information systems in courts, and increase the efficiency of the enforcement process. It also states that a little more than 8m euros will be used for a project to streamline a network of state-owned lawyers, which includes rebuilding the jumps of buildings in Zagreb. With this money for the needs of the Municipal and County Attorney's Office in Pula, as well as the Land and Book Department of the Municipal Court in Pula, buildings of former military buildings will be expanded. All of this should actually contribute to reducing the number of pending court and state-law cases, and to increasing the number of resolved tasks. Therefore, the benefits of this project will be seen through improving conditions in courts that will lead to greater efficiency, saved time, administrative staff, faster and cheaper litigation, of course to greater transparency in the work of employees, and all this will ultimately lead to a more stable investment climate, and less corruption. Therefore, this law and the loan contract accurately determines the intended achievements and planned reforms and therefore I support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55587	Thank you very much, colleague. Does the Secretary of State want it to be final? Here's Secretary of State Tatiana Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55588	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I want to thank everyone for their support in passing this law. I also remained in debt to perhaps a little more detail on the items to say how much of the 26th and 27.9m euros, respectively, for which they will be spent. Therefore, for the buildings of the Croatian State Attorney's Office and USKOK in Zagreb, an estimate is that 2.56m euros will be spent. The municipal court building in Split will spend an estimate of 8.89m euros. For judicial bodies buildings in Karlovac 4,67m euros. New premises of the Municipal State Attorney's Office, the County State's Attorney's Office and the Earth's Book Department in Pula. The estimate is 2.90m euros. In order to further improve and introduce IT systems in the business of courts and state attorneys, and the equipment of them is foreseen to assess 2.90m euros. A analysis of recommendations and education to improve the management of the judicial system, judicial authorities, individual procedures, financial management of the judicial system, improvement of the management of real estate portfolios in the judiciary of 3.71m euros. Here, thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55589	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55590	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Contract between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Justice Sector Support Project. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 566. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the judicial sector support project. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 109 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55591	And now for the 12th and 13th points, we cannot open the debate over the prevention of the motionary. 14. there are no conditions because no meeting of the parent committee has been held. And we're going to the 15th point of the agenda. It is - Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on road transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 568. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You've received reports from the board's meeting on the bench. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor at the same time? Secretary of State Daniel Mileta. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55592	Honorable Vice President, honourable parliamentary representatives. I would explain to begin with why this law is required to be passed by emergency procedure. This is because the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, Article 161 says that it is possible to do so if the law is aligned with European legislation, and in this case it is, therefore, a Regulation of 1071 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2009 where it is sought, namely by means of a decree, the obligation to establish and implement a national electronic register of carriers, to which the competent authority of a Member State has issued licences to carry out its activities. So that's why he's going through an emergency procedure. In addition, in these amendments and amendments, we have amended certain other things, because the concept of carrying out road transport activity, i.e. transport was set up in the basic text of that law, and later some changes and additions did not significantly change. The significant changes concerned compliance with the European Union, and only last November last year found that the car transport was carried out on the basis of licences, instead of the previous concession system. However, this was also done in order to comply with the Law on concessions with the Road Transport Act. We further in these amendments and additions also established the content and prescribed the conditions for carrying out the agency's activity in road transport. The Agency's activity is, these are services of intermediation between the carrier and the client himself. Furthermore, we have established the jurisdiction of the Croatian Roads for issuing licences to foreign carriers for carrying out exceptional freight transports, of course in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and we have freed taxi carriers who have been engaged in this activity for 5 years, from passing a professional examination. Of course, as soon as we introduced the content and prescribed the terms of the agency's activities, we set out some sort of infringement provisions. And the last thing about these changes and additions is that certain institutes, more specifically the expressions in the existing law, are a little bit better defined so that there are no misreadings. In the case of the register itself, what is equally important is that it is necessary to provide additional financial resources in the budget of the Republic of Croatia in the amount of 800,000 kunas in order to establish it itself and the efficient functioning of that information system, and as it requires a certain period of time, it is necessary that an emergency procedure is necessary because it takes some time to form and function properly, there is a need for a database, the establishment of a database and the education of employees, and so, and we have certain obligations towards the European Community. Now I don't know how much more detail to go on with the individual articles of alterations and additions. You've got all those constituencies. What I'm saying is some basis for these changes and additions, so that would be all of me for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55593	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, the distinguished representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55594	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act, which is the based regulation in the field of road transport, which regulates the conditions and method of carrying out the activities of the transport of passengers and freight in road transport. The analysis of the existing road transport situation and the issues raised in the practical application of the Road Transport Act points to the need to further build up existing legal solutions. In addition to the above, it is necessary to continue the process of compliance with the European Union rules, which appears to be the adoption of these amendments and additions to the law by harmonising with Regulation No 1071/2009. European Parliament and Council of 21 October 2009. This law also proposes to regulate the following basic issues. The establishment of a register of carriers, i.e. a single national register of carriers, operated electronically by the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, allowing, on the one hand, the systematic recording of all relevant information on carriers and licences issued and increasing efficiency in the work of the Ministry of Transport and the competent offices of the State Administration in the counties, on the other hand, is subject to compliance with the Road Transport Act with the regulations of the European Union. This is extremely important because it will finally know how many domestic carriers are in cities and districts, and what you would like to know is also how many domestic carriers are working on the construction of roads and highways in Croatia, and what can be done for domestic carriers to be engaged in these projects, not those coming from other countries. The law also lays down the content and stipulates the conditions for the operation of the road transport agency, which understands the activities of intervention in the employment of transport facilities, i.e. the contract of transport business between carriers and transport operators. In view of the fact that this activity is not regulated by existing rules governing road transport, it is only subject to general rules on mandatory relations which are not sufficient. The law authorises local self-government units to establish the price of such transport by means of a regulation governing the performance of a car taxi in their territory, and that the same regulation allows them to establish the criteria on the basis of which they will determine the number of car taxis of the carrier and of the vehicles carrying out the car taxi transport in their territory. Since units of local self-government are given the authority to adopt regulations governing the operation of a car taxi, we would like to know if you can explain how the number of car taxis will be determined. Whether car taxis registered in one city can carry out activities in another city, and which is important because of competitiveness, or cheaper prices for citizens. I also want this highlighted problem of auto taxi vehicles that have one plus eight seats, which should be registered as a line transport, i.e. as a transport company, and used as a car taxi. The problem is expressed in smaller environments, where they register in one local self-government unit, perform services throughout the county, and there is no proper control over the work of such vehicles, so here if the secretary of state can give me some answers in that section. This law also exempts persons who have at least five years of working experience in carrying out car taxis by the day of entry into force of this law and extends the time-limit for passing tests on the professional competence of persons who, under the provisions of earlier regulations, were required to pass that test by 10 June 2010, which we certainly support. Violent penalties for carrying out an agency's activity without a licence are also prescribed, the amount of fines prescribed for a foreign carrier carrying goods in the Republic of Croatia is increased without authorisation. The competence of the Croatian Roads for issuing licences to foreign carriers to carry out exceptional transport of goods on the roads of the Republic of Croatia is also established, given that Croatian roads carry out professional tasks in determining the relevant data before issuing the said authorisation as well as in the cases of the control of exceptional transport under applicable regulations, issue licences for the exceptional transport of domestic carriers. The existing Road Transport Act does not know the concept of local passenger transport and the regulation of such transport leaves to the Law on the municipal economy whose provisions do not regulate the general arrangements for carrying out this activity, leading to ambiguity and opposition in the application of the rules. This proposal for a law clearly defines this type of transport of Article 1 of the Act in question as a transport within the unit area of local self-government which is regulated in accordance with this law and the rules on the municipal economy. On the basis of this, we consider in the HSS Club a proposal to amend and supplement the Road Transport Act with a quality proposal which will also regulate car taxi transport in many of its segments, enable agency activity in road transport in order to intervene in the employment of transport capacity of carriers and enable the creation of a carrier registration as a single national register of carriers in electronic form. At the HSS Club, we will support the proposed text of amendments and addition of the Law in road transport, and since we are extremely concerned about this road traffic as far as possible in accordance with the highest standards of environmental protection, we would also like to commend from these speakers the efforts made by the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund and the Ministry of the Sea, transport and infrastructure which have been in place for the second year in a row by reducing the negative impact of transport on the environment. The main objective of this programme, which has also been called for by the tender, is to invite all carriers to report to this competition because it is a reduction in the emissions of harmful gases and a reduction in the noise level of road motor vehicles. And it also provides for quite a generous means. So it's 35 million kuna in 2010. The funds amounting to 70 thousand kuna per vehicle will be awarded to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and up to 50 thousand kuna per vehicle to large entrepreneurs who, by the day of submission of the tender, have purchased a vehicle of Euro 5 standard and have replaced their old eco-acceptable vehicle with this new one. In doing so, any licensed carrier may submit a request on the basis of this invitation to tender for the allocation of funds for the replacement of up to five vehicles. We believe that this programme also contributes significantly to increasing road safety but also contributes and protects the environment and is important in the context of air protection and climate change mitigation. So here we at the HSS Club are also supporting this law and programme that I have listed and calling on carriers to join the programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55595	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club Zivko Nenadic. Comrade Nenadić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55596	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The road transport law regulates the conditions and method of carrying out the activity of the transport of passengers and freight in road transport. Since it is necessary to bring the existing law in line with the European Union Regulation of 21 October 2009 which requires all Member States to organise and maintain a national electronic register of carriers The Government of the Republic of Croatia, using the amendment procedure, proposes further improvements and clarifications to certain legal provisions which the practice has shown to be necessary. Therefore, by emergency procedure, it is proposed to establish this change, establishing a carrier register as a single national record of a carrier operated by the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure in electronic form. The most important information from this record is public, such as the name of the licence, the name of the seat or residence and the home number of the carrier, the name of the person responsible for the transport, the date of issue as well as the date of expiry of the licence, the type of public transport, etc. Content is also established and the conditions for carrying out an agency's road transport activity are prescribed and these are services of intervention in the employment of the transport capacity of the carrier on behalf of and on behalf of the carrier. Of course, it can be a legal or natural person registered to carry out an agency’s activity in road transport and has, of course, a licence for that activity. Of course, the conditions for obtaining a licence are both spatial and financial, which is very important in terms of the possible damage to the carrier, the transporter or the third party the licensed person was that legal or physical. In addition to these most important changes and with a view to better functioning, units of local self-government are authorised to establish the price and criteria on the basis of which car taxi transport will be carried out in their territory. The competence of the Croatian Roads for issuing licences to foreign carriers for carrying out exceptional transport of goods on the roads of the Republic of Croatia is also established. Taxirs carrying out a car taxi transport for more than five years shall not be obliged to take a professional training test and the deadline shall be extended for those who are required to take that test. And in order to make it work better, criminal penalties are also prescribed for law enforcement. Therefore, the HDZ Club supports in all and these amendments that are in line with the European Union directives and, of course, these amendments that improve the situation in life on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55597	Thank you very much. There's a distinguished colleague of Danica Hurs's on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55598	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Gentlemen of the Proposers, colleagues and colleagues. This bill continues to bring our legislation in line with European Union legislation, as well as an analysis of the existing road traffic situation requires the completion of the applicable law. Therefore, according to the proposal, the addition of the law is prescribed to establish a register of carriers, i.e. the unique national records of carriers in electronic form. It is a unique national database of the carrier containing the basic data on carriers. In addition to the fact that there is a practical need for the establishment and up-to-date keeping of such a record, the direct obligation to establish the said register stems from the European Union document. In addition to the information contained in the records of issued licences for domestic and international road transport, data on the names and last names of persons responsible for transport shall be collected and kept, as well as information on the type and number of criminal offences and offences, or the judicial or criminal sanctions imposed on the carrier and the person responsible for the transport. The register of carriers was absolutely necessary to bring as soon as possible, because without it it is impossible to have the right picture of the condition about Croatian road hauliers. In particular, this is expressed in respect of carriers engaged solely in domestic transport. Further amendments shall be made to the content and the conditions laid down in the performance of the road transport agency shall be laid down. Amendments to the laws as I have said are proposed to regulate the agency's activity in the field of road transport, under which it is understood to negotiate the transport business between the carrier and the transporter. This activity is not regulated by existing rules governing road transport, so it is only subject to general rules on mandatory relations resulting in unskilled operations. In accordance with the proposal for agency services, a legal and natural person who is registered for the performance and activity and who has a licence to carry out an agency’s activity in road transport may carry out legal and natural persons who are registered for the performance of that activity and who are qualified to carry out those activities and who, for the purpose of obtaining a licence, have to meet the conditions of good reputation and be trained professionally to carry out those tasks. Furthermore, under the proposal to amend and supplement this law, the authority of the local self-government unit to regulate the operation of a car taxi transport in its territory to determine the price of such transport, and to allow the same regulation to lay down the criteria on the basis of which the number of car taxi carriers and or vehicles carried out by a car taxi transport in their territory will be determined. Furthermore, the competence of the Croatian Roads for issuing licences to foreign carriers to carry out exceptional transport of goods on the roads of the Republic of Croatia is determined. The obligation to pass examinations of the professional capacity to carry out the activity of the autotaxic transport of the person who, until the date of entry into force of this law, has at least 5 years of working experience in carrying out the autotaxic transport. The time-limit of the examination of the professional competence of persons subject to the provisions of the earlier regulation shall be extended to the obligation to submit that test by 10 June 2010. Violent penalties shall be imposed for carrying out an agency's activity without a licence, and the amount of fines prescribed for a foreign carrier carrying goods in the Republic of Croatia shall be increased without authorisation, as well as an increase in the lower and upper fines to carriers, natural persons and other natural persons for the most serious infringements of the prescribed road transport law. The HNS and HSU club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55599	Thank you, colleague. And on behalf of the SDP representative club, distinguished colleague Ivan Hanzek.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55600	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State. Since my predecessors made this performance easier for me because they gave me the subject and the content of the change, I'm going to skip that part, so I'm going to talk a little more critical about what we could use to do this time. Namely, I welcome the Ministry's insistence to go through P.Z.E. The process speeds up some changes, and I would be pleased to see that other ministries and other problems are doing the same. It means that according to what life brings, we react as quickly as possible in changes or additions to the law. Since there will still be some concrete remarks in the debate of his colleagues, as he has announced to me, I would like to say that the problem of taxi transport is not as simple and as uniform as many seem. In fact, we who work in local self-government know that we face a lot of problems here. In fact, it's an integral part of public transport. The number of taxi vehicles in many areas is insufficient in relation to the real needs of citizens. On the other hand, the economic viability of occasional taxi lines and taxi transport is questionable and clear that citizens who have a tendency to carry out taxi activities can hardly decide to invest 20, 30 or more thousand euros in the purchase of vehicles that will meet the needs of individual citizens and tourists for taxi transport. And that the certainty of engagement or capacity filling is quite questionable. But the fact is that in today's times, I've said it on the board, and I'm going to mention it here, in today's time we're facing a really big and real problem. And this is that out of the extremely large number of carriers, bus drivers in our country, the liquidation and collapse of the industry that hired a large number of workers, the need for bus transport is increasing. Today are the biggest fights and battles for the transport of pupils or pupils of primary and secondary schools because they are actually the only bus lines that are guaranteed to be filled and guaranteed can be known to function daily through 200 days a year. On the other hand, citizens have a further need, regardless of the enormous increase in the last ten years of cars in our citizens, but there are also nursing households, there are people who can't get to a doctor by their own vehicle, to the state institution, to the court. So, bus carriers are in a position to maintain a line with buses that have been converted, pre-named for today's needs. The purchase of new smaller vehicles is not cheap and is not easy, but many adapt to it, switch to buses from 20 to 25 passenger seats. But on certain shares in many of our counties, these are too many buses and because of roads and roads that range from 2.5 m to 3 m wide, but also because of 8 to 10 passengers who can take them on one line and there will be no more. And what's going on today? Not today, we've had this problem for 10 years, but it's more pronounced now, that car taxi carriers who have registered vehicles 8+1 appear outside the regular bus line at the passenger bus stop. The bus carrier is responsible for maintaining the line, is also punished and sanctioned, and for this with 8+1 unfortunately no one is in charge. When you contact the police, they say they can control whether they're tied up, if they don't talk to the driver's cell phone, give the car registered, give it technically correct. The road traffic inspector declares that there is no jurisdiction. No one has jurisdiction, and this activity is growing, at least in the Krapina-Zagorska County area we know well, but colleagues speak of it from other areas. And now the situation on the eye is complicated, but I'd say it would have to be as simple as we heard yesterday or the day before yesterday from the Minister of Tourism and the State Inspector General, it's a loss of tax revenue. We must look at all these activities through the escape of the state, the local community, for a certain income. No VAT is paid on tickets or on transportation, no transport is registered, no control. Therefore, we have proposed that we also introduce a change of one which we all know is that traffic regulations have been introduced, that for the control and implementation of these amendments in the law we empower traffic directorates in municipalities or in cities where this exists now, but there will be more in the future. And my amendment that's a little hard to pass, but since this is past P.Z.E. Then my two amendments, I believe, will pass, a little hard but will pass, that in the general provisions of the vehicle operating the taxi service, the vehicles with 4+1 maximum capacity are applied to the taxi transport. The second to be carried out for line transport means the condition given to bus lines can also be carried out by vehicles 8+1. In this way we regulate, do not limit but regulate relations because it is necessary to say that in certain municipalities, I will not mention them, which do not have the need for taxi transport are registered on different lines by taxi carriers, and then they are actually operating in a wider area of the county or several... I call on the Ministry and the Secretary of State, we will try in consultations as much as possible in these 24 hours, agree that such amendments will pass if some changes can not already be made, which should be included in the law when they come completely not to mention the revision and the changes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55601	Thank you, colleague Hanžeku. And now we're moving on to an individual debate. A distinguished colleague, Boris Shprem, has applied. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55602	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Honorable representatives of the ministry. Here I would only talk about one aspect of this final bill, which is the aspect of the organisation and implementation of autotax transport on the ground. First of all, let me tell you what this is about. Thus, the existing formulation in the law adopted at the end of last year says: autotax transport is carried out under this law and regulations which, under this law, adopts the competent authority of one or more units of local self-government or the City of Zagreb. A new formulation: the regulation referred to in paragraph 1, which is why the unit of local self-government determines the price of transport, and may establish criteria on the basis of which it will determine the number of car taxis and vehicles carrying out a car taxi transport in their territory. Therefore, it is quite clear that the intensity of this change is to abolish price liberalisation where there has been and that there would be no confusion for the future because if local units do so right then certainly a fixed price must be determined. Now, I wouldn't be saying all this if I hadn't received a letter from the Competition Protection Agency since 8 March 2010 that it wanted to point out the questions I was talking about, and it points out that in 2005, the agency formed its own views on this issue because it had developed a market analysis of taxi services and notified the general public, so it probably also informed the Ministry of Transport. In that report, the Competition Protection Agency paid particular attention to access to the market for taxi services and to the entry of competition into the existing organisation and the implementation of taxi transport. Two are the basic objectives to be achieved in the performance of not only autotax transport when it comes to the provision of services to citizens. But here it's definitely quality and price. Therefore, it is necessary to improve the level of taxi services, but also to ensure that consumers are satisfied with the price. How consumers will be satisfied with the price if someone imposes the price on them and is not set by the market. Thus, the agency warns of its views in 2005 and I repeat them since 2010, I have already mentioned the date in question, so the access to the taxi transport services market needs to be changed, so to change what we already have in order to ensure more free access and action on the market to all entrepreneurs if they provide these services regardless of whether they are craftsmen or companies, provided that they meet all the prescribed standards when providing these services in order to protect the quality of services and the safety of service users. Secondly, the creation of taxi service prices should not be within the competence of the association or associations representing the interests of service providers and without the influence of consumer associations, or of citizens who are users of those services. Now it's in the jurisdiction of the associations, now it's going to be in the jurisdiction of someone else who's going to form prices, whether or not it was local community units. And a third. The participation of organised consumers in the decision-making system of the price of taxi services as is necessary, as is the case in the case of the pricing of municipal services. And a fourth. The rules on the protection of competition generally lay down the free fixing of prices for goods or services, and now further explains these, etc. So here I would like to point out probably not possible, but probably the opposite of this provision with the Constitution. I don't want it to be found in the Constitutional Court, and that's why I'm warning about that norm, and I'm asking a question, of course, because I don't understand it from my reasoning. I did not understand the real motives, which is why, in the context of these changes to the existing Road Transport Act, this provision is also amended, and they question the postulates set by the Competition Protection Agency, which is the regulatory body that formed this Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55603	Thank you very much. We have a registered replica, distinguished colleague Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55604	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sprem, you said, you were wondering if it was an anti-constitutional provision and you'd probably be able to sue this as you've determined. In fact, it's not clear to me either now in Dubrovnik we have specific applications where people are waiting for a concession because they have a license. However, there is now an opportunity under this law for local self-government to determine the number. However, responsibility is therefore put on local self-government, and on the other hand, the state grants a licence and is state inspectors. Locally, we have communal directors, and it happens in coastal cities when you have big attacks on tourists, you have a huge number of taxi drivers, and I understand this provision that should be reduced, i.e. to determine a certain number of taxi drivers. But then we get into collage really whether it's unconstitutional. It is actually expected, is it possible to take as many measures as it is actually determined by the number of inhabitants but to make it legal, and not to leave it to the units of local self-government because they actually come under attack. Therefore, if this is a public service then this public service should be given 100% to local self-government because it is the reception of the city, whether it is local self-government. But if that inspectorate were to be, the communal officers could do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55605	Thank you very much. Replication response, Comrade Shrem.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55606	Thank you very much. I didn't know a colleague was going to give a replica, so I just wanted to make it clear maybe I wasn't clear. So this is about public interest, so the interests of the citizens and that interest should be satisfied in a proper way, a way to be organised and not to be asked specifically from the constitutional and legal point of view. The issue is not easy to resolve, I agree, but at the same time it indicates that the public interest of citizens will not be satisfied in the future because it simply introduces anyone to set prices, not the market and simply will not be competition. That's the thing. And then citizens will be cut off because quality can be secured in the public interest, because conditions are prescribed by local communities, and prices if you impose prices then there is no competition. You're still saying the number that, I don't know, the population number that and that number, just won't be the competition. I'm simply warning you. I don't think that's a good solution, that's not a European solution, and I think there's going to be a reaction to what I'd like us all to avoid together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55607	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the requests for a hearing. In conclusion, on behalf of Proposer Daniel Mileta, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55608	So Parliament representative Petir, Parliament representative Šprem and Parliament representative Hanžek touched on the subject of taxi transport. Namely, I'll answer everyone now, but with a description of the taxi. Taxi transport not to be confused is an activity where the transport of passengers is carried out by a personal car that has 8 seats next to the driver's seat, but it is necessary that the taxi carrier picks up all passengers in one place, and then can take them to more places. So, otherwise, when the taxi driver went, drove the city and where he wanted to pick one up, and later 50 meters later, for 100 meters a third passenger, he was carrying out a line transport and it was forbidden to him. So that's legally defined. He can pick up in one place and take on a few of them. What Parliamentarian Hanzek said is what people who don't respect the law do. So that's what people who don't respect the laws do. Who's controlling them? If they have licenses and permits, then they are controlled by the competent ministry through their inspection. If they don't have the permits, they can't be controlled by the D.O.D. So that's about these eight plus one. One other thing. You're kind of right about eight plus one, a lot of them, so they change buses and stuff. But you can't do it now with one cut and say here from tomorrow more than eight plus one don't serve taxi transportation. That's not the way you can do it. This could be with a longer-term strategy because then and in that case, they would leave people who invested in their jobs, practically jobless. This is the part that relates to a colleague, i.e. a pardon of Assembly representative Hanzek, and I agree with that preliminary analysis, so you have very well analyzed the market where the taxi services exist, but this part here that refers to eight plus one is our opinion that it can be solved but through some long-term period. And those mentioned are the opposites of the law. Furthermore, I think Parliamentarian Petir was also eight plus one on the subject. Listen, I guess I gave you the answer to this, too. Now, MP Shmrem, it's true, there's an opinion from the agencies, but we followed the following. The tendency of these changes is that local self-government has as many rights on its territory as possible in the area of taxi transport, so local government, we think that local self-government is seriously aware of its city's specificities, knows the needs of citizens best. Local self-government also allows certain things taxis to transport views and so on. We believe that local self-government will not work, that it will act in the manner of a good master, that it will act as citizens would be as satisfied as possible. Part of the answer why we believe that local self-government should be defined, that is, to limit the licenses to some extent limit the number of taxis possibly and in some way affect the price, so here it does not say that it, says this price, but it can say we have the maximum price, we have a minimum price, find yourself inside. The tendency is to keep that tax and service sustainable. That people who get into that job, that they know when they invest huge funds in that means of transport, so in the car, that tomorrow they won't have another hundred, of course they will want a hundred if they think local self-government takes so much, but they're manipulating a good master to prevent it. So we think it's kind of an optimum that needs to be set up by local self-government that sees how many taxis it takes, and in some normal conditions set their price. Of course, it can be extreme if local self-government does not have some kind of control, or if it is to be a spokeswoman, so taxi carriers and local self-government, should act together and find a modus together to make everyone happy. So that's the tendency of this, it's not a tendency to limit someone. Which normal mayor or mayor or first person of local self-government would do something like that. So it wasn't on our mind. If the market only determined in terms of the market only if, could happen... It can happen that someone gets into this business and in a month it's gone, then counts on why they'd come in. [[You don't understand.]] There is only one group of people who could then define their prices, but everything at, not at, or contrary to the city, contrary to the wishes of the citizens. I don't know if I've made myself clear, maybe. So market liberalisation does not mean powerlessness, does not mean that there are no restrictions. It's not market liberalisation. Every market liberalisation has its own limitations in order to be sustainable. So the point of any restrictions is just sustainability of both taxi markets and some other markets where any state should be affected in this case, we consider local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55609	Thank you very much. We have two credentials, first of all a colleague, Hanzek.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55610	Well, I don't know if my colleague Mileta, we can title ourselves colleagues, he got confused, the lapus linguae, when he said that only those who work under the regulations, or who have the papers, could be controlled. Unfortunately, in our country and the construction inspection controls only those who have reported the site and received a building permit, and now I hear that there will be a change in tourism. Namely, they're not controversial about that intensity, but it's disputed that you're eight plus one. He takes them all in one place, in an illegal taxi stand, which is known to the public, but the inspections, the police, and no one else is in charge, and I'm telling me that we have nothing to do with it, find someone who's responsible for it. Here's an correction just, I mean a little abuse of the institute, but I had no other way.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55611	Okay. Suitable for that plate. And correction, Comrade Shrem.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55612	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So Mr. Secretary of State Mileta said that approximately liberalisation of the market is not a restriction. It doesn't have to be, but look, when you write down what you wrote directly here that by regulation the units of local self-government will determine the price of transport, then there is no, will determine the price of transport, so let's say the price of transportation in the City of Zagreb I don't know 50 kuna, for this 70 kuna, then there's no liberalisation. What kind of liberalisation is that? There's no liberalisation. I'm just warning you. Look, I said it was a complex question, and I'm alone in the local community of Zagreb, and I know the problems are big. But with this formulation, you simply don't cover it, so I urge you to before this law is passed to come up with another formulation and submit an amendment to that proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55613	Thank you. As far as I heard from the secretary he said he had options from up to, that lower limit for sustainability, and the upper limit because of the inability to abuse a monopoly position. Right? ... Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let me get this straight, because it's very important. We know that Osijek, Zagreb, there were disputes, etc. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55614	So we think this formulation allows local self-government to say the minimum price is that, the maximum price. So that's what we think this formulation satisfies. So we're not talking, we might be contrary to now formal law, we idealy as far as it goes, we're assuming that we're not in the opposite, but you think that the formulation defines the price, doesn't allow local self-government to say the maximum price is that, the minimum price is that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55615	Okay. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We're moving on to the next point.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55616	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act. It's an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 568. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is over. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted an amendment. In accordance with Article 166. The Rules of Procedure on such an amendment must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendments? Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? To conduct a debate on the government's amendment, we are asking for a decision. You're welcome to turn yourself in and vote. The result? We only agreed to discuss the amendment of the government with 89 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 1 against. I would ask the applicant's representative to further explain the government's amendment. Mr. Daniel Miletta, State Secretary. Here you go. The amendment concerns Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55617	President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. The debate was last week. It was dynamic and useful and, meanwhile, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted one amendment on the proposal of the Parliamentary Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications. It is that in view of Article 46(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The road transport law stipulates that autotax transport is carried out on the basis of the laws and regulations adopted under that law by the units of local self-government, and given that the provision of Article 6 of the final law proposes the extension of the competence of local self-government units in the regulation of the autotaxic transport problem in its territory, the Government of the Republic of Croatia maintains that this law regulates the jurisdiction of municipal directors. In order to monitor the implementation of the rules of the local self-government unit in carrying out the activity of autotax transport, i.e. In short, local self-government has been given a certain possibility, a certain round of action, and this amendment gives the possibility to control these regulations that we have given it to adopt or to adopt.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55618	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on the proposal for an amendment to the government. There's no need to argue. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the amendments to the government. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The government's amendment was accepted by a majority of 96 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against. The amendments were also submitted by the Legislative Committee and by Agent Ivan Hanzek. I would ask the applicant's representative to show himself about the amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee to Article 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55619	The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the amendment of the Assembly Committee on Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55620	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Stay. Please state on the proposal of Agent Ivan Hanžek and on Article 1 of the first amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55621	The Government of the Republic of Croatia considers that we cannot accept the amendment of the parliamentary representative, because it would be too painful a cut for individual craftsmen and entrepreneurs now operating in taxi transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55622	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Hanzek.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55623	I'll use what I said and during the debate. We introduce African-Asian practice to us in taxi transport, which means that in the end we will be driving 70 people in vans and mini buses as taxis, not in busses of line carriers that are registered for it. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55624	Thank you. Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55625	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55626	Who's for this amendment, Mr. Hanzek? Thanks, he didn't get the necessary majority. The same representative on Article 5 of the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55627	The government of the Republic of Croatia also believes that this amendment cannot be accepted, because it is entering a wider area of bus road traffic, and we cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55628	But the subject is connected. 8 plus one van should enter as a category in line transport, not a taxi carrier. I think we've re-mixed pears and apples again, and for ten years now, we've had an observation of bus carriers, local self-government, a mess that can't be sanctioned until we've distinguished it in this way in law. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55629	Thank you. Who's for this amendment, Mr. Hanzek? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act was adopted by a majority of votes, 96 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and nothing against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55630	. We move to the following point: - Final proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the mutual protection of classified data, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 564 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. When setting the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed by an urgent procedure. According to Article 159. The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Reports from the board's meeting were received on the benches at the session. Does the Government representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary Tatjana Vučetic. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55631	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Appreciable MPs, esteemed MPs. This law confirms the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the mutual protection of classified data in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The Treaty establishes a legal framework for ensuring the protection of classified data common to be created or exchanged between the parties contracted, lays down identical degrees of secrecy, obligations relating to national measures for the protection of classified data, the competent authorities for the implementation of the contract, the mechanisms for the transfer of classified data as well as the handling of classified data, the specific provisions on classified contracts are contained, the way in which visits and meetings of experts are carried out, the procedures in the event of a breach of security as well as the costs raised in the implementation of the contract. For the purposes of this law, no additional financial resources need to be provided in the State territory of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55632	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55633	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Allow a few words on the proposal for this law to confirm the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the mutual protection of classified data. What can be said is a standardised bilateral agreement between the two countries that regulates issues of cooperation, exchange and protection of confidential information and data. The need for an international exchange of information or material between the two countries which, according to national legislation, are classified or marked by one of the laws of established degrees of secrecy, is a principle expression on the one hand of close foreign-political relations between the two countries and, on the other hand, the real need for their mutual and coordinated action to address contemporary particularly security problems which often go beyond the national security frameworks of each country's scale and complexity. Very often certain activities related to smuggling, proliferation, etc. not only threaten national security but also regional security, and even have the character of threats to global security, and for these reasons it is normal for procedures to be standardised not only between countries but also at European Union, NATO and other organisations. In accordance with the National Plan for the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union for 2008, a full package of legal and sub-legislative regulations has been adopted which are governed in a unique and comprehensive manner by an area of information security such as the Information Security Act, the Information Security Act, the Security Check Act, the Information Security Measures Regulations, the Security Check Standards Regulation, the Natural Security Standards Regulation, and so on. and thus, the legislation of the Republic of Croatia in this important segment is aligned with the legislative framework of the European Union. The adoption of those rules has created a legal basis and professional standards have been established for the proper complete regulation of the protection of classified data both internally and internationally. In accordance with the decisions and standards laid down in the said regulations of 6 October 2009 in Zagreb, the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the mutual protection of classified data establishing a legal framework in relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Slovak Republic and establishing rules for the mutual protection of classified data relating to all future cooperation contracts and classified contracts concluded between the Contracting Parties and which contain or includes classified data. What is important is that the protection of classified data is not exclusively related to military and security issues, not only to political issues, but especially to the economic, legal, scientific and technological aspects of bilateral cooperation and it is very important to highlight and recognise that certain economic, scientific and technological patents, secrets, interests are very important for the economy of certain countries and that all countries are seeking to give special attention to this issue and I think that this component deserves to be highlighted. The advantages in economic, technological and scientific terms are created not by chance but by the enormous organised efforts of leading scientific and technological institutions in each country, in every organised economy and therefore they take all the necessary steps to protect their interests in an appropriate set of rules concerning the mutual protection of classified data exchanged between the Republic of Croatia and the Slovak Republic in this case. Therefore, it is a type bilateral contract that is similar to the structure of a whole series of multilateral framework contracts, and with them in an appropriate manner. Understandably, because of what has been said here and here, it is necessary to conclude that this bill should confirm the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the mutual protection of classified data in order to ensure that its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. And for this reason, the HDZ Club will give full support to the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55634	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Miljenko Doric gets a word on behalf of HNS's Club of Representatives, HSU. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55635	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. HNS Club, HSU will support this bill. As we have heard from fellow Cosic, it may be good to underline once again that such laws are today signed bilaterally between almost all the member states of the European Union. Namely, there is an increasingly frequent exchange of classified data. It is not just security issues, today it is also classified data from the economy, in the field of scientific and technological work, research, for reasons of military security and a series of others. Therefore, such agreements are absolutely necessary and we join those colleagues who have already expressed their support for such a single bill. What is good, which is that in the past two years the Republic of Croatia has brought a series of laws into line and brought in a series of sublegal acts from this area. Namely, the package I'm talking about concerns the Data Securitisation Act, the Information Security Act, the Security Checks Act, the Information Security Measures Regulations, the Security Verification Standards Regulation, the Security Data Standards Regulation, the Security Information System Management Standards Regulation, as well as the Personal Cooperation Security Standards Regulation. So, as you can see, a broad circle of sublegal acts specifically. And it is good to take all these elements into account between Croatia and Slovakia and install into an efficient system of bilateral cooperation. What I would like to say is that, by virtue of all these laws and sublaws, the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovakia was signed in Zagreb on 6 October last year. We're ratifying that contract today. It may only briefly state that a legal framework for the protection of classified data is established, equivalent degrees of secrecy are established, obligations are laid down in respect of national measures for the protection of classified data, competent authorities for the implementation of the contract are determined, mechanisms for the transfer of classified data, and procedures for such data when they are no longer used, i.e. the way they are destroyed or returned, if they are classified or highly classified. What only bothered us a little bit when we analyzed this bill's proposal is the fact that a rough, obvious technical mistake was stolen because we didn't get an explanation of why it happened, obviously in the translation of certain elements, which clearly shouldn't happen when it comes to international agreements. These are extremely important documents, and I think that this negative example should certainly be served so that something like this never happens again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55636	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the club reports. We have an individual discussion, a distinguished colleague, Ivo Grbić, has been reported. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55637	Honorable Vice President, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of my presentation, I would like to point out that I support the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovakia on the mutual protection of classified data. Based on the national plan for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union for 2008, a number of legal and sub-legislative regulations have been adopted during 2007 and 2008 which are regulated in a unique and comprehensive manner by an area of information security, thus establishing a basis for establishing professional standards for adequate regulation of the protection of classified data both internally and internationally. This need for an international exchange of information classified or marked under national legislation by one of the laws of defined degrees of secrecy stems from close foreign policy relations between states and an increased need for mutual and coordinated action to address modern, mainly security problems that often go beyond national frameworks with complexity and comprehensiveness. The Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the mutual protection of classified data signed on 6 October 2009 in Zagreb established a legal basis for ensuring the protection of classified data that are common or exchanged between Contracting Parties, whether this is a matter of establishing the same meaning of degrees of secrecy, obligations regarding national measures for the protection of classified data or the determination of competent authorities for the implementation of contracts, transfer mechanisms and treatment of classified data, arrangements for visits and meetings of experts and procedures in the event of breach of security as well as issues of costs incurred in the implementation of contracts. In view of the fact that, following the signing of the contract in the Croatian language, certain technical errors have been observed in relation to the texts of the originals in Slovak and English by diplomatic means within the meaning of Article 79. The Vienna Conventions on the Law of International Contracts reached an agreement on correcting errors in the text of the contract as signed in the original and the corrected text of the contract in the Croatian language is published in this final proposal of the law. For this reason, since the Croatian Parliament confirms contracts showing the formal consent of the Republic of Croatia to be bound by this Treaty, I support the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the mutual protection of classified data.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55638	Thank you very much. This is what we've exhausted all the requests for discussion. That's why I'm closing the debate. We will vote when the conditions are met, and with this we have met the planned conditions for today's work and we will finish for today. Tomorrow we'll continue normally at 9.30 again a little bit by points up below. The first point will be to appoint judges of the jury of the Supreme Court, that is, paragraph 20, and then the second point will be the Proposal for a Law on the financing of political activity and election promotion, that is, point 12, and then will be further negotiated. Thank you very much and pleasantly.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-01-0.u55639	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the Mutual Protection of Classified Data. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 564. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Act. What's this? About the protection of classified data. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the mutual protection of classified data accepted by most votes, 109 votes to, 1 abstention and nothing against. Good morning! Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, we continue our work and as announced we begin with the agenda point - Appointing judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia Proposer: The Ministry of Justice of the Ministry of Justice has filed this act on the basis of Article 133. Court law. You received the proposal by mail. The hearing was conducted by the Justice Committee. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain his opinion? Yeah. Ms Tatijana Vučetic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
