ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47195	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow me to brief you on the reasons for the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia on Inland water navigation on the waterways and their technical maintenance. Ladies and gentlemen, meet all the European countries whose territory is crossed by waterways. All these countries pay particular attention to their waterways, and the European Commission itself encourages them to cooperate with each other and that as much as possible traffic is directed from roads and railways to waterways that are more efficient, cheaper and environmentally acceptable. In this context, the Republic of Croatia is also happy to see the Danube River crossing its territory as a waterway, Drava and Sava. Not for no reason, many compare the significance of Vukovar in the Danube as Gibraltar in the Mediterranean. Ladies and gentlemen, this first-class agreement addresses the issue of boat sailing between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia and that in the part of the Danube from Batina, meaning from 1433 to 1234 km. The sailing section equalises the conditions of Croatian and Serbian ships in the use of ports, devices and equipment in certain ports on the principle of reciprocity, equality, the issue of certificates that ships and crews must have on those ships. However, the issue of keeping the Danube is much more important because the procedures and ways of maintaining the Danube are precisely regulated, as you know, of the importance of the international waterway. This primarily refers to the maintenance of depths, widths and setting up of navigation safety facilities on these waterways. In the Republic of Croatia, there is an agency based in Vukovar that is responsible for maintenance of waterways, and this year's budget provides sufficient resources for the regular implementation of this Agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the adoption of this law because we believe it will encourage navigation of the Danube, trade with the Republic of Serbia will be encouraged, and I stress, most importantly, the level of security of navigation across the Danube River through the territory of the Republic of Serbia will be raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47196	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Okay. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, Mr. Representative Petar Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47197	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the ministry. Proposal for a Law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on inland waterways and their technical maintenance with the final proposal for a law. We also have before us a proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia on Inland water navigation and their technical maintenance, which is the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the Croatian Parliament in order to confirm i.e. for ratification. By ratifying the agreement in question, the two neighbouring countries which are not so far their relations in the field of inland waterway navigation will have a bilateral solution to this precisely by achieving cooperation on the development of trade relations and a more favourable approach to the market through transport of both goods and passengers by inland waterways. The agreement lays down relations that precisely regulate the Danube river navigation area. The technical maintenance of waterways is also defined, including the marking of waterways, which are segments that are a prerequisite for safety of navigation. In particular, the Agreement shall regulate the relations of the Contracting Parties relating to the navigation of international waterways in the territory of the Contracting Parties. Within the limits of their fleet as well as the joint maintenance of the Danube River waterway. Between the 1433 and 1295 river kilometres not covered by other international agreements relating to those waterways. We well know what the Danube River means for the life of residents of all the countries through which the Danube is going through, and we are particularly aware of the importance of the transport of rivers which, compared to other modes of transport, is viewed as the most economically acceptable and environmentally just. The Danube is a river that connects, so that the link would be legally established in an appropriate manner with regard to the navigation of the waterway maintenance, the marking for the safety of navigation, the regulated relations, the mutual recognition of ship's certificates and the testimony of crew members. Then, regulated legal and technical economic conditions for the cooperation of the two countries' competent authorities are proposed to support this law in full. The implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on waterway navigation on inland waterways will allow for the establishment of activities on the implementation of the common waterway planning project for the purpose of ensuring the safety of navigation, will meet the minimum airworthiness requirements to be met in order to make navigation profitable. It will increase the reliability and efficiency of internal navigation, which will contribute to the development of economic growth through the realisation of trade relations, given the nature of the process of confirming international contracts and formally expressing its willingness to be tied to the already concluded International Treaty, as well as the fact that, at this stage of the procedure, the text of the International Treaty cannot be changed or complemented, it is proposed that this proposal for a law be adopted and discussed on an urgent basis by uniting first and second reading. I must stress that the implementation of this Law is in the jurisdiction of the sea, transport and infrastructure, and the operationalisation of technical maintenance of waterways, including the marking of the waterway for safe navigation, is the responsibility of the Agency for Waterways based in Vukovar. Vukovar really deserves it to have the Agency, to have the Agency's headquarters, which the Croatian government recognized and thank her very much for that. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support this proposal fully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47198	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Goran Beus Ricembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47199	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow representatives of the motionary. In front of us is the proposal for a law to confirm the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the navigation of waterways on internal waters and their technical maintenance, which is only one technical issue at first sight, and in fact it is essentially a very important document that can have far-reaching positive consequences, not only for the development of mutual relations between the two countries but also for a whole series of elements of these relations which the Republic of Croatia sees with a special interest and in which it can and must use the special benefits of the fact that it has internal waterways, i.e. waterways on its territory. This Agreement is extremely important because it addresses a whole set of issues in the context of the overall economic and transport relations between Croatia and Serbia as neighbouring countries and can contribute to the fact that below the level of sometimes increased tones in political relations, above all because of outstanding issues that have been raised by the Homeland War and what Croatia has experienced in aggression, however, processes are taking place that will allow both countries in the European environment to raise standards of mutual communication and cooperation to a higher level and all for the sake of a common European future. Of course, it is primarily about how much this Agreement can and how much it wants to contribute to the quality of life of citizens, first of all, in our country, because it is about it, because this issue is affecting the standards of exploitation of internal waterways that are in one functional part roughly coincided with those of the mutual lines of demarcation of the two states, which have not been formally solved. We need to be aware that the Danube is a natural demarcation but we also know that the Danube is not the only line of distinction between these two countries and that we have a whole series of unresolved issues in this regard that burden relations but should not burden relations to the extent that it prevents or slows down or prevents the economic and traffic co-operation of the two countries. Secondly, it is a document that represents a legal framework for improving mutual trade relations, but also, above all, for the economic exploitation of the Danube waterway, which is as the longest European river, one of the most important European transit routes, waterways that neither begins nor ends in Croatia or Serbia. Croatia has particular responsibility in the implementation of this document, among other things because of the possibilities provided for the development of Vukovar. Croatia should do everything in its power to ensure economic development of Vukovar by building a modern functional river port, as well as attracting investors into ports of cargo, storage, transit, logistics and production resources in or near the port. It is one of the central issues of economic recovery and the development of the whole of Sreme, but also of the good part of Eastern Slavonia. Similarly, we must not forget that for decades and centuries the Danube has been exploited by a tourist transversal that has symbolic meaning and in the history of the whole renewal because the Danube has been a river that has been in Croatia, but also in Hungary and Serbia and Romania since the anti-Turkish wars. It is a transverse that has made Pannonia a living space, which has brought several million Germans, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Russia, Ukrainians from all over Central Europe who have left an indelible trail, so it can be said in many regions around the Danube and crucially designed a matrix on which modern society was founded in all the countries of the former Austro-Hungarian monarchy. The Danube is a symbolic link that makes all countries from Schwarzvald to the Black Sea a unique space in which they have fought for territory but in which there has been a lot of blood and sweat that malaria and submerged Pannonia, to make the endless swamps a few generations of the most fertile parts of Europe. The Danube is a place of multiethnicity and multiculturality it is a link between all the nations that we today consider to be the peoples of the Central European Circle. That is why it is no wonder that from Ulm and Passau, Vienna, Budapest, Vukovar, Belgrade, of course and Novi Sad, and all the more, the Danube also works as a tourist transversal because it and its end are reflected in the centuries-old history of Central Europe and Europe in general. The Danube were the German colonists in the so-called "Dunav". Ulm boxes. These were wooden ships that were disintegrated when they came to their destination and built the first dwellings from that wooden building. It's a symbol of the whole region. Unfortunately, there is not a single model of an ulmic box in Croatia, although on the Danube coast along Baranja and Vukovar, until Srijem, thousands and thousands of colonists had just arrived in such ulmic boxes, in Ulm ships. Perhaps this is one moment in which it should be reminded that it could be a good tourist brand as it already is in a large part of Switzerland, or Bavaria, because we are talking about a waterway that has its centuries-old and perhaps even a thousand-year tradition. In this sense respect and improve all the values that the Danube brings us and which it provides, it would be good in all fields, not only in traffic and economic but also in tourism. Yesterday, we also passed a law that made a protocol ratified, namely we will only do so with our vote, and it refers to the Sava River Basin. Sava is also part of the Danube Basin and raising the level of ecological water quality monitoring standards is also a very important framework in which the future and transport of the Danube will take place. It is therefore more important that all countries from Schwarzvald to the Black Sea should pay attention to the Danube and to the quality of water, as well as to the quality of transport. The Danube must not be in any of its stock dumps. So it would be good to make sure that some of the companies carrying the goods to the Danube are getting their helmets at very low prices at this time because of their unquality because they've already been produced in the upper Danube. And it would not be a good idea to close our eyes to the fact that we are on long-term ships and that some countries are still not forced to use European standards of ship safety and quality. The Republic of Croatia is because it has already translated a good part of the legal gain of the European Union into its legislation and I hope that this agreement has also been kept in mind in this regard, with particular responsibility for the future of Vukovar and all of our citizens living in the Danube region, the Croatian People's Party will support the proposal for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47200	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS club Mr. Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47201	Mr. President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to point out in front of the Club of Representatives of the HSS that we support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on Inland water navigation and their technical maintenance. From the aspect of the HSS issues that we are particularly interested in on this agreement are environmental protection and the possibility of developing the economic relations between the two countries of the agreement, and the possibility of establishing better trade relations, which all leads to economic growth both parties and the other parties to the agreement. By reading the provisions of the agreement, we have convinced ourselves that this is precisely the purpose and the main objective. The agreement regulates relations that precisely regulate the Danube navigation area, and the Danube River is for the economic exchange of goods of all countries to which the Danube flows from exceptional importance. When taking the transport link between the Danube River and the Black Sea Basin and the west across the river Rajna to the extreme northern points and the Baltic ports, then the adjustment of the navigation relations with neighbours is one of the steps of the integration of the Republic of Croatia into the entire network of European Union waterways. In particular, for the Republic of Croatia, the important role of water transport as the most economical and environmentally-acceptable mode of transport, which at the time of the global economic crisis can make a significant contribution to reducing costs, thus affecting the final price of the product. I especially must stress here the role of Vukovar port which has become one of the congestions of development not only of the city of Vukovar, Vukovar-Srijem County but of the entire eastern part, and that is what is based on and development of Slavonia and that is what we all need to evaluate, and therefore, of course, this agreement is particularly important for people living in those areas. Since so far there has been no bilateral agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia, this is certainly a major step in bilateral terms to regulate relations that will allow safe navigation, transportation of persons and things on internal waterways, technical maintenance of waterways and their marking. The issue of technical economic cooperation will be settled, ways of mutual recognition of ship's documents and IDs of crew members and will be established by an interstate commission for the implementation of the real agreement. We at the HSS Club are aware that this agreement means a lot to Croatia and therefore we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47202	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Agent Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47203	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. In order to improve international and interstate transport on inland waterways and create conditions for uninterrupted navigation, marking and maintenance of persons and things on internal waterways on 13 October in Belgrade last year, an agreement was signed between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Serbia on waterway navigation and their technical arrangements for more precise regulation of navigation relations, marking and maintenance on internal waterways as a prerequisite for better establishing trade relations, more favourable market access and mutual protection of economic interests. The implementation of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on navigation of waterways on internal waters and their technical maintenance will allow for the establishment of activities on the implementation of the joint waterway planning project for the purpose of ensuring the safety of navigation, will meet the minimum airworthiness requirements that must be met in order for navigation to be marketable, will increase the reliability and efficiency of internal navigation, which will contribute to the development of economic growth through the realisation of trade relations. According to this Agreement, vessels of the Contracting Parties are allowed to sail inland waterways and use ports or ports located therein subject to compliance with the applicable national rules of the Contracting Parties and with provisions of applicable international agreements relating to those waterways. The signatories of this Agreement shall recognise without discrimination the same status to all vessels through the implementation of customs formalities in order to supply supplies and supplies to vessels and to supply the vessel with fuel oil and in accordance with the national rules governing international transport. In order to monitor the implementation and application of the provisions of this Agreement, an inter-state commission shall be established within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this Agreement. The Interstate Commission shall consist of six appointed representatives of each Contracting Party. The Interstate Commission may, where appropriate, hire representatives of other bodies and experts in relation to certain issues. Members of the interstate commission shall name the Contracting Parties. The Contracting Parties shall exchange information on changes to the legal, economic, technical and other provisions of navigation, information on the state and technical maintenance of waterways, information on the conditions of reception and supply of vessels and the presence of crew members on their internal waterways and their ports and ports. It should be stressed that the provisions of this Agreement do not affect the rights and obligations laid down by other international agreements bound by the States of the signatories. The provisions of this Agreement, as well as its application, do not affect the identification and designation of the inter-state border. It is also important here to point out that, on the date of entry into force of this law, the agreement referred to in Article 1 of this Act is not in force and the information on its entry into force will be published in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts. I believe that the adoption of this law is of interest to the Republic of Croatia and I will accept its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47204	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47205	Thank you. Mr. President, Secretary of State. Just a few additions to the importance of the Danube River for the Republic of Croatia and not just for Slavonia and Baranja. The Danube River is the most important river on a commercial vessel in the Republic of Croatia. It is directly connected by the Republic of Croatia to the ports in the Atlantic Ocean, the countries of Central and Western Europe, to the countries in the European southeast. The whole length of the Danube stream is a pan-European traffic corridor of 130km, meaning from Batina to Ilock. The boat is provided 365 days a year with a number of foggy days and nights and days. The Danube through Croatia is a waterway of the fourth class pan-European which means that it is used by ships up to 150 tonnes of load capacity. And what is most important, means the only and biggest, significant port in the Croatian part of the Danube is Vukovar and the Vukovar port according to all statistics is one of the largest ports in the Republic of Croatia including ports located on the Adriatic Sea with an annual turnover of over 300 tonnes of cargo. And what I wanted to add to my discussion. When one day we connect the Danube with the Sava Canal River, then we will see how much more important this is for the dry and thirsty Slavonia in the summer days and about the invaluable needs and values of irrigation of agricultural land in that part. And thank God we started to think deeply about protecting our natural resources like the Danube and having discussed the Sava River itself yesterday, only that these agreements and protocols should be implemented as outlined. I don't think our future when it comes to irrigation, when it comes to drinking water and wateriness is questionable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47206	Thank you. Mr. Representative Sima Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47207	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on waterway navigation and their technical maintenance. Croatia wants to improve international and interstate transport on inland waterways, improve the maintenance and safer transport of passengers and goods to the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia in 13.10.192009 sign an agreement in Belgrade, an agreement guaranteeing both Serbia and Croatia not only safer sailing but also better establishing trade relations, market access and protection of economic interests. This law confirms the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the navigation of waterways and their technical maintenance and its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia becomes part of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. For the implementation of this law, the Republic of Croatia will in its budget, in fact, in 2010 in its budget and in the following year allocate significant funds, and through the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. The Agency for Waterways shall have jurisdiction for the implementation of this project. In order not to repeat what colleagues in individual debates have said on behalf of clubs, and I also support this proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on waterway navigation and technical maintenance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47208	Thank you. And Mr. Daniel Srb, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47209	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Of course, it is good at any time when agreements can have a positive impact on the development of the economy, especially when it comes to the Danube and the use of waterways. It can then have a very positive impact on economic development, primarily in eastern Croatia, that part of Croatia and the inhabitants of the Danube River. That these potentials had not already been mentioned, but it may be necessary to remind them of some figures so that in the pre-war time the river ports in Osijek and Vukovar had more bulking loads than, for example, the ports in Zadar, Sibenik or Split. But all desire to establish good co-operation and the maximum use of the Danube River itself must not be discussed at this time and the unresolved border dispute with the Republic of Serbia should not be discussed exactly when it comes to the Danube border. It is known that somewhere around 11 and a half thousand hectares of Croatian land is located on the other side of the Danube River and that the issue has not been resolved, since after the Homeland War a continuous border line agreement is mentioned in the middle of the Danube River, which there are no records, but according to catastrian books, part of the Republic of Croatia located on the other side is something Croatia must not forget at this time. It's a chance to talk about it. If it wasn't just an empty, processed land, it was also a few settlements located on the other side of the Danube, mostly north of Apatino and belong to Osijek-Baranja County. What conditions do these people live under with unresolved documents, citizenship and all the problems that arise from this should be said at this time. Last month, the Apatin municipality made a decision to build a large cargo port on that part of the territory that grunting belongs to the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, this moment is also alerted to this and to call on both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other competent authorities to definitely solve the problem of relations with the Republic of Serbia's Croatian territory on the other side of the Danube. Because if the practical permits for construction and construction are carried out in that part of Croatian territory in the Republic of Serbia, then the question is, in fact, what effect does the Republic of Croatia have, whether it also brings certain diplomatic notes and whether negotiations are being held on resolving the dispute. This discussion was prompted by the desire to draw attention to the problem of people living on the other side of the Danube, while Croatian citizens and solutions to the border dispute with the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the Danube River. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47210	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later. We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on waterway navigation and their technical maintenance, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 506. The motion for an act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on waterway navigation and technical maintenance. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 107 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47213	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives. On behalf of the promoter of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I will briefly explain the proposal for a law amending the Law on Agricultural Land. The Law on Agricultural Land adopted this Parliament in December 2008, and it entered into force on 1 January 2009. The sale and lease procedures of private agricultural land are in the jurisdiction of the Agricultural Land Agency. The creation of a programme for the availability of state-owned agricultural land for units of local self-government that did not do so is also within the authority of the Agency. To date, since 543 units of local self-government, 88 have not developed a programme of availability. Since the agency has not yet started work, both private agricultural land and state agricultural land have been disabled for those units of local self-government that have not adopted the programme or have not yet begun to be available. It is proposed that the Agricultural Land Agency begin its work on 1 July of this year. The proposed amendments will continue the transport to private agricultural land by the start of the Agency in accordance with the general rules on the availability of real estate. This law proposes that private-owned agricultural land lease and sale contracts concluded from 1 January of this year until the entry into force of this law are legally valid. It is proposed that units of local self-government may adopt programmes within 6 months and be made available to agricultural land owned by the State within 12 months of the date of entry into force of this law. The adoption of this law will prevent the negative consequences that would arise as a result of the inability to dispose of state and private agricultural land and will allow for further smooth availability of the same. Dear MPs and parliamentary representatives, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47214	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? And the correction, I'm sorry. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47215	Mr. Secretary of State, it's not about the negative consequences of the law, it's about the inefficient work of the government that was supposed to apply the law they proposed, to which we had a lot of objections, but which was voted. Therefore, the government's inability to enforce its own laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47216	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47217	Thank you, Mr. President. The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land with the Final Proposal of the Law as a parent working body. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. The debate expressed its dissatisfaction that the Agricultural Land Agency did not start work, with the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a regulation on the establishment of the Agricultural Land Agency in March 2009. The concern has been expressed that the agency will be able to start work in July 2010. It should also take into account the constitutional action brought as the process of selling and renting private agricultural land is carried out by units of local self-government on behalf of and on behalf of the Agency. It would therefore be a good time in the draft law to extend until the end of 2010. In view of the fact that the Law on Agricultural Land adopted in 2001, land policy in the state agricultural land has fallen to the decision on local level, and that 88 municipalities have not yet made available programmes for agricultural land owned by the state, and 140 municipalities have not opened a single tender. It is questionable whether units of local self-government will respect new deadlines in these amendments and amendments to the law. A large number of outstanding problems in agriculture have been pointed out, and unpreparedness can prevent the use of European funds. Payment agencies and guarantees for agricultural land have not started adequately with work, and are most important for agriculture as an economic sector. It is estimated that in the light of the depletion of the provisions on the parcel of cadastral particles of agricultural land, since there are no criteria for granting consent to the parcel, it is necessary to find a way to prevent further plots of particles. The debate highlighted the uncertainty problem of agricultural producers, as many are unable to secure long-term agricultural land. The opinion was also expressed that these amendments and additions to the law after a comprehensive debate in the adoption of the Law on Agricultural Land in two readings would allow, however, the Agency to function as a agricultural land. In view of the feedback provided for in Article 4(3) and the need for the home working body to support the reasons for this, the opinion was expressed that the Agency would not be in office before. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament, by a majority vote of 9 for and 1 against, to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47218	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Legislatives, Mr. Representative and Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47219	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the 84th session held on 3 February 2010, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land with the Final Bill. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and does not object to the proposal for a proposal to adopt this law by an urgent procedure or to enter into force on the day of its publication in the "National Journal". At the same time, the Committee shall also support the reasons for the feedback of the provision of Article 4(3) of this Act. Two amendments to the text of the final draft law are also submitted to the Committee, so the next amendment. It's the first article in the first and third. Therefore, in the article 1 and Article 3 of the second sentence: "Alinea" in a particular order of numbers and downfall is replaced by the word "set" in the corresponding genus, number and drop. And second, article four. Therefore, the fourth paragraph of Article 4 of the third paragraph is replaced by the words "in accordance with the law and without the participation of the Agricultural Land Agency." Therefore, the argument is nomotechnically regulated, and the fourth supplement is the provision of the third paragraph in order to show that it is legal contracts which have been concluded without the participation of the Agricultural Land Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47220	Thank you. And on behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, Mr. Representative and Chairman of the Committee, Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47221	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the 28th session held on 3 February 2010, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 28 January 2010, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 13(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as an interested working body. Introductory representatives pointed out that the adoption of a new law would allow further smooth availability of state and private agricultural land. The Law on Agricultural Land "The People's News" No. Since 2008, the availability of private-owned agricultural land has been linked to the work of the Agricultural Land Agency which has not yet begun its work, and the proposed changes and additions wish to be made available to those land in accordance with the general rules on the availability of real estate until 1 July 2010, when the Agency would start all operations within its activities. It is also set a time limit within which units of local self-government are obliged to adopt a programme of agricultural land owned by the State and to start making available it. On the contrary, the Agency shall adopt, with the agreement of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, and at the expense of the budget and units of local self-government. The discussion on the Committee supports the adoption of this law and highlights the importance of implementing the Law on Agricultural Land and the role of the Ministry of Agriculture in the aim of rational management of state and private agricultural land. A complaint has been raised over the absence of the Agency for Agricultural Land, as a specialised public institution for the operation of agricultural land mining and the improvement of agricultural land management within the original deadline provided for. After the debate was held, the committee decided by a majority vote, 7 votes in favour, 3 votes against, one vote abstention, to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47222	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mrs. Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47223	Thank you. Mr. President, state secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today discussing amendments and additions to the law that was passed at the end of 2008 and most of all, in those provisions that we, as a club, had the most observations about when the law was passed. The second remark or other amendment concerns either the most important amendment proposed by this proposal for a law relating to the start of the Agency's work on agricultural land. Although I say the law was passed at the end of 2008, although the regulation establishing the agency in February 2009 was to begin the procedure for organising and forming the agency itself, that is, by the end of 2009, that is, by the start of the application of the law, it did not work, and that is now the basic reason why we are going to change. So we've already introduced a practice to make certain things that we've established by law into certain deadlines, and then we're always putting it off, and some delays are done three or four times in individual laws. Therefore, we think that this delay in the application of the Agency's work is also questionable, and we are not sure that it is a well-assessed time that the agency should be able to do any of the jobs it has done, if so far enough has not been done, and for less than five months, it is actually going to work. But a little later on. There's something that needs to be said about land policy. Agricultural land is actually a basic prerequisite for agricultural production, it can be the basis for successful and competitive production, and may also be the main cause of incompetence in agricultural production. In Croatia, agricultural land is actually one of the most important causes of incompetence and this is because we have depreciated property, which we don't care about rounding up land, we don't care about agritechnical measures in agricultural production, agritechnical measures relating to bonity and the preservation of agricultural land. We estimate that land policy is bad throughout this period, unimaginable, is not working to eliminate negative effects in production, so we have not significantly improved the size of land for agricultural, efficient and competitive agricultural production, we are not implementing any thought-out agritechnical measures that relate to land circulation, so from arondation to the most effective measure, and this is a combination that means not only the rounding of property, it means editing, the complete editing of space, in our case it would also mean editing land books as one of the major problems in the development of agriculture. It is not working or very little is being done to preserve the value, especially not to increase the value of agricultural land. We have done little or almost nothing on irrigation and deforestation of agricultural areas, which is actually a prerequisite for a higher production phase because it is unimaginable that some productions can be of quality if we do not have adequate irrigation, especially in the current changing climate conditions when we have increasingly rapid periods of dry periods for which we then allocate significant resources from the budget, and they do not actually give effects. Since the first Agricultural Land Act, which was passed in 1991, one inefficient agricultural land use policy has actually been defined, resulting in a decline in production, non-competitive production, price growth, import growth, so all that should actually be one intended agricultural policy, so that, within it and land policy, we can eliminate and lead to quality and competitive production in Croatia and sufficient production for domestic needs if we can't go into imports with it. The SDP did not support the current agricultural land management model either, we were against the adoption of such a law on agricultural land. We have already assessed in the very adoption of this law that it is questionable whether such provisions of the law are constitutional. I will remind the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia talks about agricultural land as a general good but also about the inviolability of private property. This law that we are now changing actually affects the free availability of private property when it comes to agricultural land. That is why, even then, we have assessed that the provisions on the full restriction of the availability of private land in terms of sales or leases cannot stand in this law. Similar, we're not the only ones who think so, so this law is actually given to the Constitutional Court's assessment of constitutionality. We find it unacceptable that state-run management, especially private land, should be decided at the level of local self-government, taking into account, and in particular not to give some authority to the mayors or mayors, given the size of the material and personnel training of our municipalities. To municipalities and cities, this law gives many professional jobs that are related to problems which they are in most cases unable to do because they are both deficitary in financial terms and in human terms. I'll just list a few of these tasks that they should carry out under this law. They should therefore have state land in such a way as to maintain it capable of production. This means actually to monitor every plot if adequate agrotechnical measures are being carried out on it. The necessary agrotechnical measures should then be set out. Regulation of measures for the arrangement and maintenance of agricultural mines, hedges, borders, Polish roads, etc. Conduct a tender to rent unprocessed land, decide on the lease of such land. Make available programmes for state agricultural land, determine the maximum area to be sold to one legal or natural person. Conduct a tender for sale and lease of land, establish priorities etc. We estimate that at this level the possibility of favouring individuals is actually bribery and corruption is great. We've been in this whole period since '91. the year when we decided and by law we found that state agricultural land is given in concession and we have no knowledge of the current use of state land and the financial effects of such use. How much time has the lease and concession money been raised from the sale? And to what end that money was spent, we don't really have any knowledge. In this context, it should actually include the obligation of the Agricultural Land Agency and its function should be stronger, especially when it comes to the use and supervision of the use of state land. The SDP is not satisfied with the implementation of land policy, but we will still support these changes only for the reason that citizens can currently manage their private agricultural land uninterruptedly. And I would also like to say a few remarks about these changes and additions to our suggestion that just such changes and additions to the existing Agricultural Land Act should actually be a reason for it to be fully evaluated and adapted to the current or current needs in agricultural production. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. In fact, the provisions on the consent to be given by the Agricultural Land Agency, which relate to the parcel of cadastrian particles, are deleted. With such a depravated property and with very expensive land-separation procedures, unless we disable further parceling but rounded possessions or rounded particles, we have actually done nothing but do damage. And should it not be possible to regulate it in this way, perhaps regulate some other regulations that there can be no depletion of existing cadastrian particles. Art. 3. In fact, it extends the deadlines for the adoption of a programme for agricultural land owned by the State. It has already been said here that a part of the local self-government unit has not adopted such programmes so far, that a large part of the local self-government unit if it has also adopted a programme has not opened tenders for the use of such agricultural land. Since it's been going on for almost 19 years, we think it should be reconsidered. Is that exactly the best model to bring in programs for the use of state agricultural land? And in art. 4. It should really be said now that this is really objectively possible until 01.07. to organise the work of the Agricultural Land Agency so that it can perform these functions which it currently currently holds in this law. And since paragraph 2 of that same article refers to retroactive action, so that the delay is being carried out from the beginning of this year until July 1st of this year, our regret is that when it was already known that the agency will not be able to function at the beginning of this year, that is, by applying this law, it should react in time and at 11 or 12 months of such a decision, and not that people are coming into unpleasant situations that simply can't make the purchased land realise or book it or cannot have their private property at all. So, once again, let me say we are dissatisfied with the way agricultural policy is being run, especially land policy, but this is how people who have objective difficulties are going to have their private land in this period of time are going to accept the amendments and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47224	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević, please. And there was one correction, I'm sorry. Mr. Davor Huška, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47225	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Zgrebec said that at the level of units of local self-government, there is a great possibility of favouring individuals through a programme of agricultural land and thus the possibility of corruption. Dear lady, colleagues of Zgrebec, the city and municipal councils are bringing in the programmes available to the state-owned agricultural land, the name of the programme's implementation commission. City and municipal councils are making conditions for competitions, choosing the most favourable bidders, all of which are blessed by the Ministry of Agriculture. Customers or tenants report to the competition, select by precisely defined criteria and indeed Mrs. Zgrebec you and the team on whose behalf you spoke if in that procedure you succeed in setting up a buyer or a tenant of any hectare of agricultural land then you are really a master of bargaining and corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47226	Mrs. Zgrebec, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47227	Well, actually, I'm referring to an article. In 209 when correcting the incorrect allegations, I did not say that there is corruption but that there is a possibility of bribery and corruption, and therefore I have concrete remarks where one municipal council makes a decision despite the fact that the commission has proposed the most favourable bidder not to rent the land to them but to someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47228	Thank you. Let's move on, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević on behalf of the HNS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47229	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing amendments to the Agricultural Land Act. It's a very sad story. A sad story primarily for landowners and not only because of this law, because of a whole series of measures, but definitely for all those who are in a situation of land, prices for the country and for various reasons that cannot be affected by the potential of the country cannot be verified through agricultural production. We are discussing amendments and additions to the Law that was passed at the end of 2008 is still questionable whether it was adopted by the majority, but the fact is that this Law has brought part of the ruling coalition, HDZ and HSS representatives, remained either restrained or left the assembly together with us from the opposition as a sign of protest, because then we warned about possible situations, and one of them, one possible scenarios is exactly what we are discussing today, which is exactly what we were warning, but nothing happened. The law ended up on the constitutionality assessment, I think it would be very correct, I think it would be very correct of the proponents, I'm not saying that it was done on purpose, how much incompetence in the whole process of this, it's a different story, but it would be correct to amend this provision that blocked the sale of agricultural land, which blocked that sale from 1. 1. In 2010, since that provision came into force, and the rest of that Law awaited the final position of the Constitutional Court, for the rest of that Law to accept the reality, the overall reality of our agricultural sector, and then to get one quality, applicable and above all to agricultural production beneficial law. Because none of us object, none of us intend to say that such a law is necessary, but we disagree in the way and how it comes to that. The fact that this law denies the right of ownership, though it is on the assessment of constitutionality, is the fact that this law is free to say rape procedures, whether it is a lack of vision, incompetence, incompetence in keeping with the promises made during the pre-election period, and I think that these promises are very expensive and expensive are paid by Croatian agricultural producers. The fact is that we passed this Law at the end of 2008, that the Agency was formed by a government decision in the 3rd month of last year, that the Administrative Council was formed at the 6th month of last year, now in the 2nd month of 2010, the Agency is not functioning, it is not. The truth is, meanwhile, there was a change at the head of the ministry, but the state secretaries remained the same, almost all, professional services remained the same. Transferring blame to ministers, I don't think it's correct and fair. And that many in this ministry, above all, at the level of state secretaries, should, above all, examine their personal responsibility clearly and loudly why and why something has passed in the Croatian Parliament, why and why it is not in office? Furthermore, if we had unused agricultural land, that's true and that's true. I have no record of how untapped agricultural land is on individual property, I have no data as much as is owned by the state. But in order of priority, I think we should ask why the state land is untapped. If it's already a agricultural issue of ownership, nursing homes, decapitated properties, etc., and what about state land? Whether all possible potential, stimulating measures have been used to stimulate the land owner to process the land and ultimately make its product cheaper than the products imported. That's the key question. Whether all possible potentials have been used, in a way that everyone is giving himself support to a variety of personal ones, just because it's in that position, I think it's hard to do and that it's impossible to make a synergy of all this. The units of local self-government, they got the obligation to build a program, resulting in all of that, management of state land, the result is that today 40% of local self-government units didn't do the program until the end. 88 hasn't yet, and 140 haven't called the competition. Watch out for colleagues and colleagues, that's 40% of local administration units. Leaders in those local administration units were elected to direct elections, so they trust their residents, neighbours. So something's wrong with that, somewhere's the problem. I'm sure these leaders are very ready and interested, and I almost want to believe that they are interested, that agricultural land in their area will be in office, be in favour, therefore, obviously, is a problem somewhere. With this law, we are trying or allowing the local self-government unit to put agricultural land into operation very likely under the prescribed procedure. But how and how to force the state to put into office the land it owns. A whole series of questions we don't have an answer to, or rather, we have an answer but we don't want to say it out loud and clear. My colleague Zgrebec mentioned our administrative capacities in these units of local self-government, financial capacity, decentralisation. It's decentralisation in the way of this government. I'm giving you a commitment, I'm not giving you money. We also have a discussion in this session about the Law on Payments in the local and regional administration. Are we taking care of these people in local and regional administration? All that we're saying is we're talking to each other for a maximum of two years before we finally enter the European Union. The financial envelope, when we talk about the agricultural sector, is famous for both 2012 and 2013. It is for 2012 and 2013 together 4 billion and 800, 4 billion and 900 almost, kuna. 144 thousand euros for direct payment market measures, for rural development of 483m euros, for fisheries 53 estimates of not my personal, ministry estimates that in those two years we will use 2 billion on direct payments market measures, we already have that system, that is 846 million cca. In rural development, nor 50%, because in rural development we did almost nothing, neither institutionally, nor administratively, nor did we train people in units of local and regional administrations, nor did we tell them how and how these projects can identify projects and rural development programmes or 50%. So the total is an estimate of 2 billion, of 4 billion and 800 billion in 2 years. Is this the law's fault? Is that the law that's stopping us from doing that? Maybe in one small part, but I think it's negligible in relation to everything else to talk about, what needs to be discussed and what needs to be very clearly determined, because everything we didn't get we didn't lose it. When compared to that part on the assessment of how many jobs in agriculture or money received from agriculture will have the obligation to pay in the European tax, it turns out that in the European tax for a billion and 800 we will pay more than we will withdraw. So we're going to finance another farm with this difference. Is it in Bavaria, is it in Poland whether it matters where, but those who have brains, knowledge, abilities and skills to withdraw those funds? Therefore, I think that this is an important, far stronger reason for the debate, and for making decisions, and also for asking the responsibility of those who are handling the entire sector, and for example this law we see and the evidence is that these changes are evidence that people working in that ministry are not talking about the top, I'm not talking about the minister, I'm talking about command responsibility, but that they should very clearly send the message of apology to the Croatian public. And finally. The Croatian People's Party was against the law when it was passed. For a whole series of reasons. They are known, they are clear, public and in a very clear way, and our exit from the assembly we have made clear the attitude along with the other colleagues who went out at that time but there was opposition and part of the position. We have made our position clear about this bill, this way. The fact that these changes can be called a technical bypass, and what was not done in time is corrected and a new time is expected. And we have less and less time, primarily from the position of something that we will be able to use by entering the European Union, not to mention the daily problems of farmers and peasants. Since this law does not fundamentally change anything, and as a purely technical bypass, it is very difficult to decide what it says against personal reason, logic, the overall situation. I, on the Committee on Agriculture, proposed to the Secretary of State and my colleague Zgrebec mentioned on behalf of the board that the deadline should be extended to the end of the year. Something we didn't do in eight months last year, we're going to do it by 1. Seven. We've got four months left. Three, four, five and six months. Something we haven't practically done in a year, we'll do in four months, incomprehensible. Such an attack of ability in a relatively short time. We have suggested that it be for a year, to wait for both decisions and the Constitutional Court and that we are ready to support these amendments in that variant. However, the proposal was not accepted by the promoter. The Croatian People's Party club will also be restrained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47230	Thank you. One correction by Mrs. Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47231	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I would correct Mr. Korajevic's incorrect claim to pass this law to deny the right of ownership. That's incorrect. On the contrary, it is the agency's task to help resolve the property-legal relations of the owners of the agricultural land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47232	SDSS representative club Mr. Representative Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47233	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We are today discussing amendments to the Law on the availability of agricultural land and, unfortunately, it is already becoming a practice we have long waited for and some fundamental laws with which we create some of our general policies, we give specifics of sectoral development, etc. We put under our own audit for 12 months, and we're going with some changes to the legal texts in their changes. This bill, although it seems benign because it contains a definition in its content through some 4 articles, could open up a number of other questions about agriculture on the strategy of agricultural development, we could also talk about the functioning of the total system, that is to say, its own compliance with the legal provisions and obligations that we give ourselves through these norms, we could discuss here and ask whether it was just a matter of operating the land agency, so it was not a function of the institution of the warehouse, it was not a function of any other institution that we gave ourselves through a series of laws and which we installed in the agricultural sector, we could also talk about the incentives here, and we could ask why we now, at once before we entered the European Union, we stopped by encouraging the rise of permanent plantations, so we have cemented the current situation as you are, and we have had for another year, two days, that our total or total hectares, before we enter into the European Union. We could also talk about capital investments and everything that is going on around capital investments, payment of capital investments, investments that have started on the basis of some projects and have not been completed, large investments have been cut off because capital investments do not work as they need to function, etc. However, I will only talk here about what is now on the agenda and it is an agency. In the adoption of the Law on the availability of agricultural land, as the colleague said earlier, discussions were held and we did not support this law in the first version, so we went out when voting on this law. And then we said and we objected to a few things. We have objected to solutions in the law that have defined how agricultural land is used in terms of abandoned land, etc., all these dangers that it will bring to life. We were against how to pay the rent on that basis. We also objected to the land change reports of the so-called land. golf land, etc. And most importantly, we have objected to the provision of Article 81, which restricts the availability of private land in its definition and gives the mandate to make that private land available to the agency. And that's when we said it was ours and now it's ours that the 81st article is a constitutional restriction on traffic and on the availability of private land. We think it is, and now we think that this provision is basically a retrograde provision and we think that it should be assessed in any case, or its constitutionality should be assessed in the Constitutional Court. According to the basic law, the Agency has been given very high powers in creating agrarian policy through Article 78, through 80, through 82, through 84, etc. You can see when you read all these powers that it was a very ambitious thing and that it would be a miracle that the agency with such ambitious powers and functioned within the deadlines that we set ourselves and these are deadlines in 1.1 this year. So, in the very creation of this legal text, we were unrealistic in some of our expectations, and I think we overestimated some of our capabilities both human and other circumstances that happened in the meantime. The SDSS currently believes that first of all we need to wait for the assessment of the constitutionality of Article 81, and that is a condition without which we cannot talk about the basic function of the Agency. We also believe that given the sensitivity of this matter on the ground, we should take into account and ensure, above all, the professional teaming of people, so to put in detached parts of the agency by regional self-government of people with knowledge, who have experience and practice in the field of private ownership and transfer of private property. We think that what is particularly important to us is that there are still a large number of people in the status of the refugees, people covered by the housing return programme who have a problem of unsettled grant ownership, unsettled cadastre and those who were not in such short time were not able to deal with these conditions physically, and I think they need to be through the very application of this law amending the law, so through the prolongation of this period of functioning of the agency to give some time opportunity to update these grant facts so that they are then equal participants in the transport of ownership. And finally, we believe that private property is undecided, that everyone has the right to sell their property well. In the concept of circumnavigation, we don't think that we should put small owners in the same position and the need for some owners to replace some existential problems with their small possessions right now. So put in the same level of such a situation and transactions to large trading complexes of companies etc. Finally, because of all of this, for all of these reasons and the need for certain institutes to be completed, to provide better quality solutions in the work of the agency, we think that this deadline that you have given to 1.7 is possible even if it would be desirable to extend it, I completely agree with the predecessor who believes that this deadline should be by the end of this year because we don't think that now in this period of three, four months something better will happen. So if the thing is so complex that we couldn't finish it by the deadline, then that deadline should be longer anyway. Also, that call, that retroactive provision that contracts concluded under the general rules are the same thing to discuss because when people heard that they could not dispose of their properties without the consent of the agency many of them who had intention did not even go to the job waiting for the agency to form and obtain that consent. So let us give people a period of time to make the damage less than any of the benefits we expected from such a legal proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47234	Thank you. One correction by Ms. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47235	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Horvat’s representative spoke of the Law on Agricultural Land and Article 81, stressing that this article was unconstitutional. I must say that agricultural land is a national good and the introduction of order in the management of agricultural land cannot be counter-constitutional. It is counter-constitutional when a person leaves on his land to grow chicare, when he does not process it, and when such unprocessed land has a negative impact on neighboring land, adequate agricultural production is disabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47236	The National Minority Representatives Club, Ms. Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47237	Dear Vice President, distinguished secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Looking at the amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land, we could say that if we look only on the surface that these are cosmetic changes. It changes a few dates and there's no reason not to accept it. However, when we look at what is changing, we must take a critical look at what is happening to us in agriculture. Thus, the law changes the time, or since the units of local self-government or until they have to adopt a programme of agricultural land, or when they begin to manage it. But let us not forget that practically this was regulated by the law of 2001 and that we wait for the full nine years for the final units of local self-government to bring their programmes to the agricultural land, or for the land to finally begin to dispose of it, whether it is in the direction of rent, whether it is in the direction of return, or whether it will go for sale. We really talk all the time about how almost 40% of local self-government units still haven't completed the procedure in nine years. Family farms waiting to reach the country, waiting for the event to happen, and even the opposite process of what is happening in Europe, which means that the devastation happens and that they reach the country, they turn themselves around and begin to round up their agricultural land, i.e. their families' economies, just by buying private agricultural land. And look at the wonders, now we've immediately begun and caught up with the regulation of this land, we're setting up an agency and we expect once again that something will happen in the next eight or nine years with a reason to put traffic or put this national good under state control so that some of the bags on the side don't come and buy us that land. When I look at the time spent so far for land distribution programmes, these nine years and that nothing happens to that land, that we will continue to be trafficked even slower, then I would even say that someone is actually sabotaging the transport of agricultural land so that it will not be resolved until the entry into the European Union, that is to say all of those deadlines that we are looking for for the prolongation of land traffic and that then something is actually happening with the land, rather than that process we have tried to speed up and when it comes to the first nine, or so that we have reached out to manage private land in some way, and many here have pointed out that it is certainly counter-constitutional in this way. But no matter how the Constitutional Court defines it, the fact is that we will slow down and traffic on private land and create even bigger problems. Because I'm saying, a picture of exactly what happened at nine years is the best thing that ever happened. Another problem that is here and we are now saying that we are prolonging the establishment of the agency, i.e. to extend the application of the law in six months. The fact is, by then, we may be setting up a Land Traffic Agency, but the fact is that we're not going to change anything into a segment of the beginning of that process. This was best said by her colleague Zgrebec, who pointed out exactly the administrative and professional capacities of our units of local self-government who don't even think about changing anything in this direction, because first of all, they don't have and I'm afraid that even when the agency and the best function, the very big problems will be at the level of communication of landowners, units of local self-government, competitions, presentations to the agency. So, there's already been a speech here, if this is prolonged, it should be prolonged for the whole year because we're practically up to 1.7, we only have four months left. I'm afraid we'll go back to a new prolongation. Perhaps we should have gone to prolongation all year round, and prepared part of the units of local self-government, i.e. how the general application of the entire Agriculture Act, and not only this segment of traffic, takes over the units of local self-government in the part for which jurisdiction gives them the law and how they would really be trained to implement the Law on Agricultural Land. We meet here in agriculture that one law postpones another, I will remember, however, that we practically have a regular practice of changing laws before they apply them. Let's remember the Water Act, remember the transfer of channel management to the third and fourth lines that we transferred to the county. We don't have anything happening to us, and it's probably not going to happen until as long as there's no flood and there's no repression that finally the law starts to apply in that part, because very often the counties don't even have control over what channels they are, which are the surfaces, etc. We also talked here a few times about the Agricultural Support Act, where we have extended certain deadlines, expanded, that we have never done a simulation of the consequences that will happen by extending those deadlines, or when it comes to application, we have not prepared ourselves enough, and I believe that in a few days and that law we will have here. Because the mandatory entry into the VAT system, or better to say, into the tax system with 12 and a half thousand support, is throwing out almost 50,000 family economies and systems, and we haven't found a solution to what we're going to do with these family economies. Because they didn't apply to the tax system, the deadlines are over, we're in the field getting more and more trouble. I call here a little bit of the Ministry of Agriculture, and I call for some seriousness when we are presented with laws, laws that you must support on the one hand, in order for some processes to take place, if nothing else and towards negotiations towards the European Union, in the direction of the absorption of certain funds earlier from the SAPARD, now from the IPARD, and that at the same time we have major problems in application. And on the other hand, even though I tell us very often the mouth is full of how we want to increase income, the competitiveness of our agriculture in fact makes all of this a stalemate, increasingly moving away from those who seriously wanted to deal with agriculture itself. Because instead of reducing our problems, we're just taking steps towards the competitiveness of our agriculture on the one hand when we're talking about the Land Law to say, and we're taking steps around the circle. We're still groping in place. We haven't done much, and I say all the other measures that follow, that is, the rest of the legislation, that is to say, always brings us back to one beginning. And I think that we would probably have to talk more seriously about the state of agriculture in this House, because the measures that took place last year and the support that agriculture has now to do with the funds, I'm afraid that at some point not only will we lose European funds, but indeed our agriculture and our land that we're talking about today in the situation of unprocessing, in a situation where even far greater stimulating measures will have to try to keep people on the ground. Because these days, the abolition of certain programmes in livestock also collapses several family farms, because they have simply invested too much to stop, and too much time remains the same to eventually enter IPARD programmes and that they can finally implement their two, three-year programmes. I mean, here's another one. Maybe we should think about new deadlines if we support them. This is certainly a segment that has to be done to transport land, so that indeed those transactions that are under way to finish, but I don't think this should end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47238	Thank you. IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47239	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. So let's go with this first article of 77, where it is said: "The Agency's activity is done by the following business and tasks: participation in agricultural land available, then the acquisition of private-owned agricultural land, then the rounding of agricultural land, then the management of land funds, the transfer to private-owned agricultural land, the collection, the analysis of data on the market in agricultural land, and then the participation in the agricultural land planning process in accordance with specific regulations, gives consent to the parcel of cadastrian particles", etc. etc. I don't think there's any agency that could be doing this job at all. That law, better put forward those provisions on this agency in my court, should be lifted immediately. What we have today means space when the agency doesn't work far away is better than what will be when we form one such agency. I'm personally afraid she'll block any sales between individuals. Finally, a higher freedom of private property should leave it as it has been so far that Marko and Janko, my father or someone else can sell their country to whoever they want. I assure you, gentlemen, this law is more unconstitutional than golf or worse than golf. For socialism, the peasants without mediators were able to trade clearly with their own, and today we see that they will not be able, as they have been, to the globe of the Earth since the time of time and again. We will have to see now to form this agency probably of a few dozen perhaps hundreds of employees, and who, on the other hand, will control under quotes the sale of each cadastrian particle in the Republic of Croatia? Well, that's clearly impossible. And that's why I'm saying that if it could somehow be formed, then the code should work for several hundred people. Instead of the state apparatus we're weakening we see that through these agencies we're strengthening that apparatus. And then a man asks himself the question of who in this under quotes is going to pay for it. Let's just look ourselves in the eye and admit to each other that this law is inconclusive at this point. Finally, the more bureaucratic the state is, I suppose, the poorer the state is, and God knows, the more perspective. And it is unfortunately Croatia today, and I'm afraid it will also be Croatia tomorrow. One word means why someone would tell my father who he was going to sell his country to and why. Keep your fingers off my land. I don't know how else to describe it. It's easy for someone to give one million euros so they won't sell that country to the one the agency wants to sell it to, and if they do, they'll sell it to someone he wants it to, even for nothing. And a lot of those stories through such a form of circumnavigation of possessions and so forth, because that's all we're going to do is hand in hand to the rich and the chosen. And finally, let's start writing laws and higher up our traditions, customs and so forth. And let us try to see the opportunities when we talk about agriculture not only in Slavonia, but how it works in one Istria, Dalmatia, what I know in one Zagorje where these parcels are scattered, small and similar. Today at this point in action is one tragic truth. You and that you will not be bought by anyone, no land, no house, no apartment, no hall. It's just that, I'm not going to say that the real estate has become worthless, but it's a picture right now. In Zagreb you have what I know tens of thousands of apartments no one will. In Istria I guess a few thousand apartments that are also, for which there are simply no customers. In Dalmatia, Slavonia I suppose the situation is similar. In two years the price of these apartments, houses, these countries will be even lower. At the entry into the European Union, I am afraid even lower and we will then sell out why only to survive. That's what I'm afraid of. As time goes on, I'm afraid it'll be worse than it will be. If today's external debt is 43 billion euros, in five years it will be 60. If 300,000 people are unemployed today, 320 or 330,000 will be unemployed in half the year. If today's liquidity is 26 billion kuna, I'm afraid in a year or two, it'll be 30 or 35 billion, and that's just it. If we can't sell land today, and we can't, then we won't be able to sell it or sell it for a year. If agriculture is at the bottom today, it'll be worse in a year. And then what? Then there will be some elections, all over again, new power, new politics, new people, new ethics, morals, new laws, etc. I argue that the Croatian problem is number one at this time that the bad laws that people propose, which may want the best, but simply do not see a step further, do not see the tomorrow, and does not know the present. Croatian laws are not because of, I would say, written people concerned, but are mostly written for administration, because of those who are in the administration. How someone imagines an agency that should, as I quoted this article 77, participate in agricultural land, acquire private-owned agricultural land and all of these other 20 or I don't know how many points simply unite. Well, that's impossible. And in the end, everything happens, what we have today, everything is blocked, everything stops, and we see opportunities today, and because of such laws worse than yesterday. The fourth paragraph of paragraph 2 shall mean Article 4(2) to 1 July 2010 of private agricultural land will be available in accordance with the general rules governing the availability of real estate. So by 1.7.2010, we'll all be seen as it has been, and since 1.7.2010, this Agency Act will come into force. And now let's look at the four, five laws we passed, let's say last year, which concerns almost every one of us. Here we go. Let's go to digital TV. Buy these reviewers, 200 kuna. We have to buy a new gas bottle, 200 kuna. You can't slaughter a calf anymore at home, you have to pay for the lamp. You know what a lamp is? That's that cauldron for the grappa 200 kuna. We've given up free books, free transportation, we pay for the hack, VAT 23%, there's no investment, etc. It's harder to live, and now it's time to form one of those agencies. Imagine if someone didn't want you to sell the apartment of the gentlemen you live in, or that you couldn't sell the car you wanted. Well, it's not just about selling, but I guess whoever you want to live with I don't know about my neighborhood or anything like that. Such laws may have been needed by gentlemen there in '92, '93. the years when some people are kicked out of their apartments just because other nationalities are and so on. But that's why I'm saying that this law, gentlemen, is an absolute failure today and I'm not lying. I mean, I'm asking you to understand that with sales paralysis, there's something worse going on, and that's that the state just gets me involved in who I'm going to sell something of my own. It's like I don't know that someone's defending someone, maybe they'll come up with someone to sleep with. And let's not play with it anymore, gentlemen. Because these super-centralized or I don't know how super-states are supposed to be scared. I don't want the state to just decide everything. Now we're reading that I guess all cell phones and phones will also be able to control themselves. Well, somebody's gonna say it like it's not, but let's not play with it. Let the people in this country simply think for themselves, let each one with his own understanding manage his own. The continued formation of all new and new agencies I think the state is leading to bankruptcy. We can operate without 50% of the agencies, we can. Our administration is pre-named, often self-inflicted. Hundreds of laws are too high for us. Let me just quote you one text, title, we lose 250m euros because of inert ministers based on these European Union funds where Croatia is said to be unable to withdraw funds from European funds, so it will pay more in the European Union budget each year than it will get from it, especially for the implementation of agricultural policy. The document claims, as already called, that Croatia is unable to withdraw the funds granted to it during the European Union budget period 2012, 2013. At the same time, Croatia must pay funds to the EU budget, with the worst possible rural development of the country, SAPHAARD, what is here, the programme from which Croatia used only 12 million, or about 50%, and so on last year. A series of laws that we passed last year, whether you agree with me or not, means in 2009, we just have to change today in 2010. Well, here's the situation, okay, this one from '98. I guess, in 2008, it doesn't matter. So we have to change the same thing. In 2008, that's right. That's how we have to change this law. Yesterday we were here in the assembly discussing that excise tax code for small shipbuilding that damaged that branch, and the worst when we pass such laws that no one has any consequences. So if one law destroyed one activity, I guess there's someone in this country who's supposed to be responsible. If this law blocked the sale of agricultural land, and did many people harm, even worse than that, it drove them mad because they couldn't sell theirs, maybe two or three months ago that they could sell far more expensive than today and no one in this country is responsible. Here tomorrow, yesterday was a government meeting, we're going to talk about the Bookbooks Act, with the right, but in 2009, we passed one law, and in 2010, we're changing those same laws. Normally it is a different base, but with such solutions it seems a pity I would tell every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. So by my judgment, these changes, actually this agency is not necessary under this law, this agency will not bring benefits to anyone. I'm afraid it'll do us more harm than good. And finally let the people rule their own way. I'm going to say one more time, should someone in this country regulate on whom they're going to sell their car to, to whom they're going to sell the apartment, to whom they're going to sell the building plot and so on. It should be borne in mind and the fact that when we talk about this country is not the same disposing with the same in the likes of Slavonia and down in Dalmatia, Istria, or in Zagorje. I'm absolutely sure of that. What I advocate, clearly, is that the state country, and in Istria due to the exodus has the most, over 30% of the agricultural country, elsewhere in Croatia, perhaps 6.7.8% that in concessions, not to be sold, is given in concessions and that people are able to put it into function, but I am absolutely against making it impossible for the owners to free-distribute the same. And finally, I'd like someone to convince me the difference between this law and that golf law that either hasn't passed or will fall in the Constitutional Court. And soon we will rightly change him. All in all, I don't think this agency makes any sense, and that's why I'm against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47240	Thank you. Two corrections. One, Madam Representative Mariana Petyr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47241	Dear Mr. Vice President Cain, in his proverbially vivid debate, announced a general flood in all sectors that had nothing to do with climate change, said among other things that joining the EU would sell everything anyway. That's not true. This is particularly not true when we talk about agricultural land because Croatia is negotiating with the EU to prevent the sale of our agricultural land to foreigners within 12 years of joining the EU. There are examples of other countries that have done so successfully, I see no reason why Croatia would not also get a green light from the EU for such a provision, since agricultural land is indeed national good and national wealth.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47242	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Nevio Štić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47243	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Indeed, fellow Cain had so many facts, but some were completely unconscious and completely misread.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47244	Facts unconscious?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47245	I want to correct the incorrect assumption. The incorrect quote is, "We gave up free books." Mr. Cain, there are no free books. It just depends on who pays for them. We gave up the payment model, and the books cost Croatian society a lot. And in that spirit, I wanted to show how much nonsense you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47246	Club of representatives of HSS, Mr. Representative Zdravko Kelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47247	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land and only by the number of clubs that have come forward to see how much interest we have in this topic. Not just us who are here in the Parliament, but a large number and those people who live, whether directly or indirectly, from agricultural land and from agriculture. At first, I must say that what Mr. Cain said about selling agricultural land is that there are no interested in buying agricultural land. From the middle I come from, from Slavonia, it's quite the opposite. That's where the malts fight for the ground, that's where the land's price rises. I'm not going to say in a year that she went up there twice so that it could be bought or managed to get to her. Sadly, that is not what those who live on the land and those who should live on the land do. In most cases, those with money do not deal with agricultural production but rather want to reach a certain capital or wealth through that land tomorrow. However, does he have farms without agricultural land at all? One who understands the production of agriculture will also realize that without agricultural land there is no production. There are no villages in agriculture, there are no people who in their tradition, in their lifetime, experience farming as a life. Because today when you look at our village, then a man can only understand what an individual means to his family, which means farming and doing the job. When a 70-year-old man says, "You can take everything from me, but don't forbid me from farming, because it's my life. I live with the earth and I die on that earth." This is what binds a man to the environment in which he lives, and that is what is the wealth of Croatia and the wealth of all of us. If we look at it that way, then we can experience it in a positive way and then we can also understand this bill to go that way. When we started this job or with a question about agricultural land here for almost nine years, it was one hot potato. And then many ran away from that hot potato. They didn't have the strength to face him. Because even then, we knew at the HSS it wouldn't be easy to do this job and it wouldn't be easy to do what we wanted to do. What did we want? We wanted this land to come into the hands of those who knew best how to manage it. And that's when we started the job. Here's nine years after that, the results show up. Sometimes a man should be critical, be self-critical and say and what is good, but also not good. Personally, I don't think we did what we expected. It's a lot done, but not done enough. It could've been done more. The very data here tells us how much it's done, it tells us everything. 350 municipalities and cities have brought their programs. Those who do not know do not mean that the agricultural land issue has been resolved in these municipalities and cities, it is not. There's still land that hasn't been settled in these municipalities and cities. And that's the question of how the municipalities and cities managed their land, is it good or not? 88 are municipalities and cities that haven't even brought their own program. Someone may accuse the ministry, an individual or something, but 80 municipalities, I personally don't know who's in charge of those municipalities or cities, but they certainly deserve one criticism, one irresponsibleness they showed to this business because this is about those people, the country that's in their community or their city. Thus, they are certainly to a good degree to blame for not bringing in programmes on the availability of agricultural land. What are the reasons? They know it best, but over the past nine years, I can't take the right to say they didn't have enough time. 140 municipalities and cities brought in the program, but it didn't do anything or anything. Of course they deserve the criticism, too, but they must also be clearly told, "Lords," and through this agency that we're talking about here today, we want to tell them, "Lords, if you won't do the job, you can't do it, someone else can do it." There's no other way but that. If we want this job to be done, and we all agree that we want to finish it, then we have to turn certain things in a different way. It's been nine years, it's done as much as it's done. There's a new time ahead. We all agree and advocate that when Croatia enters the EU, it cannot buy land, we are talking about 12 years. God forbid that deadline is 12 years old. What I'm afraid of is that it won't be 12 years, and we won't solve this problem that we're talking about here today. I deeply believe that we will be able to solve this, which is why we are all here, but what is a danger to us, which is that those who have money, want to invest where it is cheap, and the country is cheap in Croatia. Today, it is also invested in the country because it is known that land prices in the European Union are far higher than in Croatia, so every normal person knows that by entering the European Union that the price of land will rise in Croatia, these investments thank God go to the right place. But it's also a danger to us, to back up these facts that we're talking about here, unlike Mr. Cain, looking at tenders that have been called so far and looking at how interested they were, then we can see that the malts not on each particle were 5 to 10 depending on what it says, somewhere more somewhere less, but on average there were so many interested persons who appeared in these competitions. It tells us that people want to get to that country, that they want to work on that country. But what's also a danger and that's whether they're really getting the land of those who should be getting it. Practice has shown us that there are good cases, and there are bad cases, there are cases where someone managed to get home to the country, and they didn't deserve to get it, where someone went into the lease, whether to buy it, or not to get it. So I think we're in great danger in that direction. What is also important, I must point out, the importance of the speed of resolution, which is that today we have a large number of family economies that have entered certain investments, whether by buying the machinery, whether by building certain farms that are needed for their production, but have not resolved the status of agricultural land. They may have this land in lease for one or three years, but it is not enough for someone to have the security to enter some serious production, so it is important that as soon as possible or as soon as we resolve this issue, that all those who have invested their money, who have invested their capital, their property that they have, that they can get one security, if we do not enable them, then we have made a big mistake, then we have not made what is particularly important to us, and that is, above all, that we can develop family economies in the direction we want and that is to be carriers of the development of agriculture but at the same time and development of Croatia. For us at HSS, it is also important to keep people in the country through family economies, through agricultural land, through what we are talking about. Let's keep all those who see their own interest, so those who in some way do not see their own interest. And here today we can read by certain presses that a certain number of people who have never dealt with agricultural land have an interest in going to the country, taking a piece of land, and maybe even going into that kind of production. It is very important for Croatia what kind of village we will have tomorrow, whether we will have an empty village, and whether we will have a village where a man will live, be happy, happy with what we will do. The Croatian Peasant Party is supporting the way the Agency comes to life as soon as possible, aware that there are certain difficulties and disadvantages, but at the same time with the goal and the desire to get this job done as soon as possible and that this job falls to the fertile ground, which is first of all to say that we did one good thing and that is that the Croatian man or man who lives in Croatia got, or came to that land, of course I don't think he got, but I think he bought either in concession or lease, and not that tomorrow we can talk about that someone who came from outside became the owner of one or another of the many hectares of our fertile country. Therefore, the Croatian Peasant Party will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47248	Thank you. At 11 and 21, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47249	Mr. Kelic says the country is cheap in Croatia. Like where. Here's an example, one square metre in Lichtenstein there's the most expensive agricultural land of 12 euros, 2008. In Istria, the state sold agricultural land owned, the average price of the state sold 14 euros, that was 2008. In 2010, I guess it's not going to be 5 or 6 euros, it's going to be less, because the sale just fell. In Lombardia Korusko, the average price is 5 to 7 euros. In Slavonia yes, 0.5 to maybe 1 euro, or one kuna. These gentlemen's ratios in Croatia are simply not normal. You may have wanted to influence some speculations that were certainly okay in Istria, but let's just not say that everywhere in Croatia the country was cheap and I think that such a policy seemed to be harmful to the Istrian space and the Istrian peasant. And just one more sentence, I also advocate the right to buy first, but when, only when one of our peasants sells to a stranger, but in other cases let our peasants sell to whom they want.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47250	Tell me, how much did you say in Lichtenstein?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47251	Lichtenstein's agricultural land 12 euros, in Istria 2008. 14 euros and that state agricultural land.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47252	What they're processing, what kind of farmland in Lichtenstein.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47253	I'm not talking about state agricultural land, I'm talking about agricultural land between peasants sold there or owners.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47254	Mrs. Nevenka Marinovic's club of HDZ representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47255	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected state secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land with the Final Bill. I'll try to explain why. Agricultural land is well of interest to the Republic of Croatia and has its special protection and it is good that it is so positioned because agricultural areas are limited and cannot be significantly increased. I would like to remind you that the total agricultural area in Croatia is 2.7 million hectares of which is owned by the Republic of Croatia 33% and 67% is private property. A total of 537 thousand 929 hectares of state-owned agricultural land were covered by the agricultural land distribution programmes, and is intended for 9% return, for sale 42%, for purchase 23%, for concessions or long-term leases of 23%, and for other purposes 3%. So far, about 21% of the land planned for the programme has been sold through a state-owned land programme owned by the Republic of Croatia, 56% has been leased, and 47% of the land planned has been put into concession. Contracts have been concluded for slightly less than 300 thousand hectares and 45% of them are leases, 33% of concessions, and 22% have been sold. The private-owned agricultural land, 67% of which meant that it was not regulated until the adoption of the Agricultural Land Act at the end of 2008 but the general rules governing ownership were applied and the consequences were further undermined by our production parcels. Therefore, today the average size of the agricultural holding in the Republic of Croatia is only 5.5 hectares per holding and in the countries of the European Union is over 50 hectares. And exactly the size of the plot is one of the crucial factors of competitiveness for most of the agricultural production. The Agricultural Land Act adopted by this House at the end of 2008, which has been applicable since 1 January 2009, provides for private-owned agricultural land in such a way that it is related to the work of the Agricultural Land Agency. However, we know that the agency has not been established, primarily due to the economic crisis, due to the anti-crisis measures the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken, and among them there has been a reminder of a reduction in the funds for the Agency's work, as well as a ban on employment in the state administration. The law is such a non-executive business in the section relating to agricultural land traffic. All of this unfortunately stalled traffic and slowed down the rounding process, but also other measures to achieve the outlined objectives of agricultural policy. And that is why the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made this amendment with the aim of making it possible to make private-owned agricultural land available to the Agency in accordance with the general rules on the availability of real estate. It is also proposed to regulate the legal status of the lease and sale contract of private-owned agricultural land concluded from 1.1.2010 until the entry into force of this law in such a way that they are considered legally valid unless there are, of course, other legal shortcomings. This proposal therefore regulates what, for the reasons set out above, constitutes an obstacle to the availability of agricultural land and relates to Article 77(2), paragraph 11 and Article 78(3). Furthermore, Article 3 lays down provisions allowing units of local self-government to adopt programmes for agricultural land owned by the State but also set deadlines, but also proposals and solutions if they do not comply with those deadlines. I will remind you more, I believe that this particular provision of Article 3 is good, because out of 543 units of local self-government 71 there is no state agricultural land at all, 384 have produced a programme or 81% of the total number of units of local self-government that have at all agricultural state land. 350 got consent to the program or 91%, and 88% of the units as we've heard in the debate so far have not yet developed the program. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports this bill, as it primarily prevents negative consequences that would result from the inability to dispose of agricultural land. And I will conclude that the Law on Agricultural Land and with these amendments is a good framework because it fully regulates and protects and use and availability and re-use of agricultural land, and on behalf of the HDZ Club, I will send a message to everyone, that we are waiting and reforming the support policies with which we meet, but we are also facing a financial envelope, and that there is a significant space for all the factors. Here is the call for representatives of local self-government units, meaning to speed up all activities related to these programmes, that there is space in the ministry to speed up the process of granting consent, and that we all make our agricultural producers more ready together to take the funds from the European Union financial envelope at our disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47256	Thank you. One correction by Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47257	It is not true that a colleague claimed that the agency did not start working because of anti-recession measures. The agency did not start working because of unemployment and irresponsibility in the ministry, i.e. in the government in general, because for the needs of the agency and for the establishment of the agency where the funds were secured in the budget of 19 million kuna. And you can imagine what kind of anti-recession measures they've forbidden people to own their property, to feed them, and on the other hand, these money's gone. Where's this money? Where's this 19 million kuna from the agency?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47258	Where'd the man go? Individual debate, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47259	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. And this case, I would even call the affair that you have produced by law, in which you yourself have proposed deadlines in which you will do something and implement it, shows how easily the Government comes before the Parliament with deadlines and actions that you are later unable to carry out. It also amazes the fact that only after this year did you realize that you did not set up the law on time and now you are coming to the Parliament in February asking for an extension of the deadlines that something within the time period that you yourself have proposed to the Parliament finally implement. In the meantime, the citizens of this country were in legal uncertainty, dilemmas, or even, in my opinion, unconstitutionally prevented from having their own assets, nothing. And no one will ever wonder if there is anyone's political responsibility for the schlemper in the management of the resort. But it's a constant practice. Let's propose the law to set deadlines, the House of Law votes, and after the media has warned that something is wrong, as if nothing had happened, we will now change the law, so what then. Okay. How many agencies in the area of agriculture and food Croatia has today? If I went to count only in the last six years, we probably have more state agencies than the peasant party members. Now we should have started one again, or we should have started one agency that was so necessary, it wasn't even set up to enforce the law. But what is the meaning of this solution that you are now offering for the third time in the House? So why does the state want to buy first in selling private agricultural land? What is the state's interest in ordering farmers to first offer to sell their own country to the state? One of the possible interests of the state would be rounding up agricultural land but then the law would not offer a solution to eradicating that provision that prohibits particle vaccination so that it is obviously not. Is the aim of reducing the surface area of unprocessed agricultural land? Then the state would come up with a solution to first address the problem of state agricultural land that has not been processed but has been abandoned. So if you could bring your property to its end, then you'd go to the private owners to make the order. Is it the state's goal to lower the cost of agricultural land? With a kind of blackmail. If you want to sell it first, you have to offer it to us and then we'll see at what price, so if you offer us one price below it, you can't sell it anymore. Or perhaps the aim is to prepare Croatia for the sale of agricultural land to foreigners, perhaps even before the famous and phantom 8, 11 or 12 years. And my final dilemma, question. Are you aware that this is the solution you're opening, creating a point of new corruption risk? Wherever the state comes into contact with the private interest and gives the agency such broad powers we come to a possible point of new corruption risk, that is, the more the deadlines you yourself have not even managed to establish the agency. And now you're also offering a solution that units of local self-government that didn't bring in a programme of agricultural land must do so within 6 months of this law and if they don't do so, then it will be done by an agency that will only start on July 1st. So the agency, which will start on July 1st to start operating only in the buy-in segment, will also need a six-month stakeout and plans for agricultural land instead of local self-government will take place in 2015, possibly 16, rather than. So again, you're offering deadlines that we now warn you won't be possible. After all, I ask if the municipality or the city has an obligation to bring the program six months from the adoption of this law, how come you didn't predict a deadline within which the Agency must adopt this programme instead? The municipality doesn't bring, after six months, it's an agency obligation. Until when? By what year or what century should the agency bring in these programs? This is not the only example in which the Croatian Parliament adopts laws setting deadlines for the adoption of sublaws or implementing measures. For example, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Sports, which provided that by January and April 2007, the Government set up the National Council for Sports and adopted the National Programme and proposed it to the Parliament. It is now 2010 and there is still no national programme or national council. The Law on Road Safety is an obligation by the Minister of Education to adopt implementing rules by December 2008 on how children in schools pass bicycle safety tests. It is now 2010 and there are still no implementing rules. And I'll finish the next one. In your opening statement, Mr. Secretary of State, you did not give a reasonable explanation why you did not offer intervention in this law to the Parliament at a session in December of the month prior to the entry into force of the mandate of the agency of 1.1 this year? What was that reason why the Parliament did not receive this proposal at the December session? And second question, do you consider yourself personally responsible for this failure as State Secretary or do you feel that someone else is responsible for this failure and what measures sanctioning such behaviour did you propose to the minister against the responsible persons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47260	Thank you. This last piece belongs to the current morning, this question.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47261	It's a free interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47262	Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Zdravko Kelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47263	Thank you very much. Well, here's Mr. Lesar said that over the past six years, more agencies have been established than HSS has members. Mr. Lesar, if you didn't know more than 48 thousand members of the HSS has. But I would agree with you, that more agencies were founded than your party has members since your former party dumped you, you were left alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47264	Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47265	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, honourable government representatives, colleagues and fellow MPs. When this law was passed a year ago and something in this Croatian Parliament the opposition and the professional public warned the government and the parliamentary majority of the lightly promised speed that they would quickly establish the agency and implement the law in action. After a year and a few days, we have in the Croatian parliament a black on white that the government and the parliamentary majority did not do so without even apologizing to the Croatian public and especially not to farmers who wanted to sell their land. In spite of this, I repeat, the expert public's warnings that the Law on Agricultural Land is anti-constitutional because the law took away the right to have, that is, the most important part of ownership, which is available, taken away from the owners of agricultural land and that by nationalisation which has not been declared. The right to make available that no compensation has been offered, although the Constitution obliges the Government when it reduces ownership rights in the interest of the Republic of Croatia that it must pay, and now we have a situation that this law wants to consign agreements on the sale of agricultural land in a classical way. And worst of all, the bill itself says that land transport will go according to general rules, and the general rule of ownership is the Law on ownership and other real rights. There's no limit there. And this law re-emerges farmers and the Croatian public, but I think the professional public will react much more now. Why, if it was already intended to round up agricultural land in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, why was no fund for the right to purchase agricultural land and thus the creation of a large agricultural land fund in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. So who offers for sale the Republic of Croatia buys at the price to be bought. There's no problem. As far as the agency is concerned, it would indeed be time for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to report to this Parliament how many agencies there are in the Republic of Croatia at all. These are quasi some state bodies that are established, if necessary, for political or political reasons, to give the place of employment to suitable members. That's what it looks like with this agency. It didn't work out, but look at the explanation. An explanation because the government has made a decision that there is no new employment. That's not absurd. In the adoption of the Law on Agricultural Land and the establishment of the Agency, the agency was said to be an organisational part, a reorganisational part of the ministry, and that the ministry will establish agencies, that they need neither new people nor anything, but that one part of the ministry will move into the agency. That's what the agency law says. Well, that's not what I wrote. That's what the proposer wrote. There's not a word about that today. So this was a pure fraud, a pure fraud with the co-operation of the parliamentary majority. It's a fraud. We must remember the circumstances under which the Agricultural Land Act is passed. It was then passed the Law on Agricultural Land, the Law on the Agricultural Chamber, the Law on the Centre for Economic Development in Agriculture, the Law on the paying Agency for Agriculture, the Law on Golf and the Law establishing the Agricultural Chamber. And today, the law on the development of the crime of Djakovština works. It's a reality. This is the consequence of all these laws, as the rule of law is still in force in Croatia, it will all be settled. There is no need for political or intellectual or organisational activity. Therefore, what can we expect from this law that is now in force, so the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land that extends the deadlines, and no one guarantees that these deadlines will be maintained. Moreover, in its very text in paragraph 4, it says that on 1 July 2010, private agricultural land will be available in accordance with the general rules governing the availability of real estate. General rules governing the availability of real estate is the Law on ownership and other real rights. There's no special law. Who I don't really know who's painting here, but this kind of thing isn't allowed either to the Parliament or to the farmers. In the end, I could only say that this law seems to be meant for some new tycoons so that when the crisis passes, these new tycoons or old tycoons can reach the agricultural land, because quite certainly in a recession that is now not going to be able to buy it from farmers or they will quickly emerge from the recession, it is evident. Because the law on crime of the type "Djakovština" pulls farmers at least two to three years back, and when the brakes for the purchase of agricultural land are released then the bags will come and offer for cheap money to buy agricultural land, no matter how many agencies we set up. Gentlemen of the ruling parliamentary majority and gentlemen of the government, in two or three years when we receive an agency report, you will certainly say that you were not sure how this would develop, but you had a good intention. And good intentions led us to a crisis and to hell. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47266	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47267	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Leco said this law was meant for some new tycoons. On the contrary, this is about anti-corruption law, a law that should have prevented speculation of agricultural land and prevented the outflow of state money. Because if we think of all the great re-uses, and even adornment, and some of the others in which your party members participated, then we must say that this law is the very law that is designed to mark such situations, that there are no more unwanted situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47268	Thank you. I would like to inform the MPs and the MPs that we have agreed that there would be a vote at 12. However, this law will end. There's still eight individual debates, so as soon as the debate's over, we'll vote right away, and we'll go in turn. It's time for the distinguished representative, Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47269	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State with associates. Here I would like to start by saying that I see that Internet portals have announced that the final grain of Đakovština has been found, 3,000 tonnes have been found at the port of Split which I think is extremely good news and what shows is being denied by all those who have said that the institutions of the rule of law do not work. When it comes to amendments and additions to this law, they may also agree with some of the remarks that are being made here today to ensure that there is safe room for the law to improve. I personally spoke to the representatives of the ministry in that segment when it comes to pasture management in protected areas for which I believe they should be in office and that they should be assigned to local populations, local livestock associations which, in principle, does not allow, so I am running for, of course, the comprehensive amendments and additions to this law for which we see from the observations that have come will obviously be necessary. But when it comes to the establishment of the Agricultural Land Agency itself, I support the idea. I think it is in fact the only way to establish order in the management of agricultural land and the agency is well imagined with the aim of rounding up agricultural land and improving agricultural land management in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, we are all aware that today's land management situation is unsustainable. That is why a new law has been passed, which was intended to fix it. Agriculture land management might say that today is actually a wound cancer in the Republic of Croatia, because we have about a million hectares of raw agricultural land to be put into operation instead of growing chicare or growing weeds which, as I have already mentioned, threatens then neighbouring parcels. So we need the agency, and I don't think we need to discuss it anymore. She was supposed to start work in 1.1.2010. At the end of last year, I tried several times to warn Minister Cobankovic that it is important that the agency function, because this situation is exactly where we are today, which is that we have an empty space in which or a complete block of agricultural land management can happen or anarchy can happen. It's not good for either of us. It is difficult for me to understand that the establishment of a justice agency is not a recession measure because I would like to remind myself that the Ministry of Agriculture had a programme with the Swedish Government for 9 counties in the Republic of Croatia where, over two years, educated and educated people were trained to round up agricultural land that were then to be taken over and actually represent one core of that new Agricultural Land Agency. I am sorry that some of the counties, after the end of the contract, did not bother to keep such trained and educated people, but, unfortunately, they either went to other jobs or ended up on the road instead of working on the farming business of agricultural land. Because we see that in fact this job is everyone here in the assembly, whether they're in opposition or in power, they consider it a priority. I also see the Agricultural Land Act as an anti-corruption law, and I think it has all the elements to prevent speculation with agricultural land that is indeed national wealth. I also think that the ministry had in mind the adoption of certain provisions of this law, that it was also necessary to prevent the outflow of state money that is happening with many illegal changes of agricultural land that were in the country and I would not now spend time and repeat them because they are generally known to the Croatian public as well as who was behind them. But I'd like to warn you of something else when we're talking about agricultural land. I would like to mention that the World Bank has recently conducted research and that these research shows that growth in agriculture eliminates poverty twice as much as growth in any other economic sector and it is not known, that is, to say the truth or not to be told. It means that it is important to invest in the development of local agriculture, that it is important to increase incentives in agriculture, and this conclusion has been reached by the European Union, which today announces that the European Commission and the Member States of the European Union will increase support through the European Development Fund and new financial resources. That is why all the objections I could hear here today in the assembly, but also through the public how support should be reduced are absolutely contrary to what the European Union is planning to do today because it is recognised that without the support in agriculture, without the processing of agricultural land, there is no food production, and apparently this is recognised today in the world not only by the World Bank, but also by the United Nations and the World Economic Forum held in Davos last year that the actual food production is a priority and that today the food shortage is a major risk for the survival of humanity, and even the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and President Nicolas Sarkozy, who even proposed a global food partnership. That is why I think we should talk here and that it is important to prevent further liberalisation of the trade in agricultural products because this liberalisation will not allow food security. It has been shown that countries that have protected agricultural development from the threats of international markets have significantly reduced agricultural poverty and I think we need to see our own interest here. Because hunger today is actually the most destructive weapon of mass destruction on our planet. It doesn't kill soldiers, it kills innocent children. And that is why I advocated the increase in investment in food production, by more investing in agriculture, by increasing the ability to resist and natural disasters, and by ultimately pursuing greater self-sufficiency that we know is unfortunately not at the appropriate level in Croatia. I think a coordinated global approach is needed to ensure balanced economic growth in the world, and this can also be applied to Croatia. Because here according to the last studies, a fifth of Croats are considered poor. Therefore, I find it wise to combat poverty, but also to put sustainable development into function the resources we have. Croatia is a small country with a relatively well-preserved environment, we are small pollutants in regional and global terms, 12% of Croatia's surface area is protected in the category of national parks and nature parks. By applying nature in 2000, it will be about 45% of the surface area. The Adriatic is the cleanest sea in the Mediterranean, Croatia is 5th in Europe by the amount of quality drinking water, and we have a million hectares of raw agricultural land. Today we have a peasant who still has a traditional way of producing food. That's why I think it's logical, and I suggest that one of the measures to reduce the poverty rate in Croatia be agriculture, because food is produced through agriculture and new jobs are opened, and every new job in agriculture that opens up another two jobs in the tertiary sector. And here's Mr. Secretary of State, I know that you've only recently taken over the farm land resort, that it was done before by another State Secretary who is no longer at the Ministry of Agriculture. I therefore support you to make a real effort to put the Law on Agricultural Land into effect, because this Croatian Parliament voted on it, that if there are any doubts or problems to resolve it, but that there is finally order in this important sector for the development of Croatian agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47270	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47271	I'll be very brief. I'm replicating a colleague only in the part where they keep talking about how we have a million acres of unprocessed agricultural land. Croatia has a million 100 thousand hectares of processed surfaces and within it we can say that around 150 thousand are unprocessed. These millions of hectares you're talking about, it's a potential agricultural land that, without large investments, without large agri-mellation measures, is not possible to introduce into production, and let's not then fool around and say that they are unworked. They are who they are, but they are not able to give a certain amount of income at this time because I say unsettled surfaces that, without draining, some without irrigation, some without roughing up agrimeliorational procedures are not possible at all to bring culture in. Let us, therefore, not confuse the concepts intolerably and potentially processed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47272	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47273	So when we actually passed the Agricultural Land Act, we saw all the diversity of data that we read, statistical data, so I would indicate the data that I found and which were officially published, which is that there are over 2 and a half million hectares of agricultural land in Croatia, of which the state owns 890,000 hectares. When I'm talking about a million acres of raw agricultural land, I'm talking about state and private agricultural land. That's the exact data because they're published. What seems to me to be a much bigger problem is that the data differs significantly in the segment when we look at the programs that have been agreed by the Ministry of Agriculture, it covers 531 thousand hectares, which means that there are some 360 thousand hectares of state agricultural land that are obviously not registered as agricultural land. I think it's a big problem, that it needs to be detected, discovered and seen where this agricultural land is.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47274	Thank you. Let's get an individual discussion further, seven more. Honorable representative of Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47275	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. With 0.67 hectares of agricultural land per capita, Croatia belongs to countries that are relatively rich in agricultural land. Compared to the countries of the European Union in Croatia, less agricultural land is used by the economy, whether it is a comparison of commercial users of support or of all economies. This indicates our great depravity of domestic agricultural economies, with an estimate of commercial economies about 8 and a half hectares, and the average of all economies is only 2.9 hectares. Small possessions have become a serious obstacle to the development of Croatian agriculture. Of the commercial economies, 63% are available less than 3 hectares of the country, and there is an increase in the number of medium-sized agricultural holdings that have between 20 and 300 hectares of land, and they own about 23% of the agricultural land. The analysis of the 2003 and 2008 registers of agricultural holdings shows that the average size of farm holdings has not increased significantly. According to the 2008 agricultural holding register, the total area of agricultural land used is one million 87 thousand 536 hectares, and 153 thousand 967 agricultural holdings registered in the register of agricultural holdings are used. And this means that the area of agricultural land of a million 607 thousand 464 hectares is partly not used or partly used for non-incentived agricultural production. Untapped agricultural land is one of the largest potentials in the Republic of Croatia and it is necessary to return it to production as much as possible. Cities and municipalities based on state-owned agricultural land currently cover about 550,000 hectares. Since the start of availability to state agricultural land, it means '95. Contracts with 282 thousand 95 hectares of state-owned agricultural land have been concluded so far. The highest area was leased 56%, sold 23%, and 19% of the land was given in the concession. The objective of the land policy on the period 2009 to 2021 is to round up the average agricultural property, i.e. agricultural land used by the agricultural economy by increasing the area by an average of 5 hectares and reducing the number of production parcels by about 50%. A pilot project to round agricultural land in four counties was also completed, it is about Bjelovar-Bilogorska, Zadar, Virovitski-Podravska and Sisak-Moslavina County. So, without rounding up, or putting into function agricultural land, there is no cheap food, but also the future of domestic production. The use of agricultural land by the economy is the largest in Denmark and the Czech Republic, where the average is between 60 and 90 hectares. In Sweden, Germany, France, Great Britain, Luxembourg, the average is about 60, or 40 to 60 hectares. Spain, the Netherlands, Slovakia, Belgium, Estonia, Ireland, Finland, 20 to 40 hectares. Lithuania, Portugal, Austria 10 to 20. The average size of agricultural holdings in the Member States of the European Union is precisely due to the long-term application of combinations of different measures such as limiting the freedom of the market to agricultural land, the operation of the land fund and the implementation of the commission. Croatia with 5 to 10 hectares of land per economy is located in a group with Slovenia, Bulgaria, Poland, Hungary, Italy. At the bottom of the ranking are Malta, Romania, Cyprus and Greece, with less than 5 hectares of farmland used by the economy. Of the 541 units of local self-government, 70 of them have no agricultural land owned by the state, and 373 have developed a programme of availability of that land, and 334 units have obtained agreement for the programme. So more than 80% of the cities and municipalities that have agricultural land owned by the state have developed a programme of availability for their territory. The fact that the Agricultural Land Agency did not start work until 01 January 2010, made it impossible to sell and lease private agricultural land and ceased the possibility of adopting a programme for the provision of state agricultural land to local self-government individuals who did not do so themselves until the time limit of the prescribed Agricultural Land Act and hence further available means the same. Since it has not yet started work, the proposed amendments and additions want to make available to private-owned agricultural land according to the general rules on the availability of real estate. For all this, I will support the adoption of this law. I thank you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47276	Thank you. Six more to discuss. Dear Representative Kreso Filipovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47277	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is the law on whose amendments and additions we are currently discussing the Croatian Parliament adopted just over a year ago and in regular procedure. So, in two readings. Which means that we are given a comprehensive debate so that we can pass one as high-quality law as possible because I believe that land policy is extremely important for the progress of Croatian agriculture and for the improvement of Croatian agriculture. And in fact, in land policy, I see the key to the development of Croatian agriculture. I personally believe that by adopting, therefore, the new Agricultural Land Act at the end of 2008, we succeeded in our intention. Therefore, we have developed a quality legal framework, thus creating assumptions about the achievement of the basic objectives of land policy, which, on the one hand, are going towards increasing the basis for the development of agricultural production by putting into operation previously used agricultural land and, on the other hand, towards the formation of agricultural economies with a clear and long-term market perspective, the process of rounding them up. However, the segment in which we have not yet succeeded in our intention and cannot be fully satisfied, which is very important for the achievement of the mentioned fundamental objectives, refers to the acceleration of the procedures for the availability and marketing of agricultural land independently of its ownership. Therefore, regardless of whether private agricultural land or state agricultural land is involved. I am convinced that in the time ahead, we will also receive results in this segment of state action, thus contributing to the overall strength of Croatian agriculture, and thus to a better market positioning of Croatian farmers. First of all, by entering the EU by the Republic of Croatia tomorrow, so our farmers on the single EU agricultural market. In this part of my debate, I will only say a few more sentences on the topic which has caused the most controversy and in the debate on the final proposal for legislation, meaning the current Agricultural Land Act, but also today. It is therefore the establishment of the Agricultural Land Agency and the privatisation, i.e. the availability of private agricultural land. Therefore, in force with the Agricultural Land Act, the law provides for the establishment of the Agricultural Land Agency as a specialised institution that should deal with agricultural land arrangements, i.e. the rounding up of agricultural parcels and contribute to the process and the acceleration of the availability procedures for agricultural land. What's more important to say for the agency that the agency has a right to the name and account of the Republic of Croatia, means our country, to buy that property with the right to purchase first. Of course, under the most favourable conditions offered for such agricultural land. Furthermore, the law also prescribes a way of making private agricultural land available. As soon as possible, therefore private persons, i.e. natural persons in the Republic of Croatia, will no longer be able to dispose of their agricultural land in the way they have done so far but will have to carry out a certain procedure where units of local self-government will be involved, but also the Agency on Agricultural Land. Therefore, from this point on, we can conclude that the Agricultural Land Agency has a significant role to play in making private agricultural land available, but also when it comes to the availability of state-owned agricultural land, given the fact that local self-government units, as prescribed by law, which do not adopt within a certain period of time their agricultural land availability programmes, will do so. Unfortunately, I say, until today, the agency has not been established so that it simply cannot be available at this time, given that the deadlines for the units of local self-government for the adoption of their programmes have passed. It cannot be available either in private or in state agricultural land. That is why this law is also proposed, in order to avoid possible damages and consequences that could arise because of this kind of action, and I believe that these logical changes and additions should absolutely be supported. When it comes to the provisions of the laws they regulate, I will conclude with this my debate, the availability of private agricultural land in private ownership should always be borne in mind by the provision of art. 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which among other things says and defines agricultural land as good of interest to the Republic of Croatia, which has its special protection. So, just for the sake of earlier polemics, it is necessary to say that the provisions mentioned are in full agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, that is my personal opinion. Because ownership is practically not only a right but property is an obligation, but also the responsibility of the owner whether it is agricultural land or some other good that is of general interest and of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. Here, with this, I will finish my debate one more time, noting that I will support logically proposed amendments and additions to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47278	Thank you. Now it's the honorable representative of Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47279	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's when a man thinks he's seen everything... which our government may be amazed to see some new pearl appear and some new one, so to speak, and stupidity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The other day I met a man walking around the field in my constituency who said to me, "Do you know what evil our government has done to us?" I didn't know exactly what he meant. Could a man have tried to have offspring through medically assisted insemination, so he came across a lot of problems because of a bad law, or maybe he meant a crisis tax, I don't know. But he said, "You know, we have a law that has come into force and given power to the Agricultural Land Agency, and it simply does not work, or practically does not exist. No legal institution wishes to recognise lease or sale contracts unless they have been certified by an existing agency. Well, that's for your mind to stop. Here, Mr Filipovic has now explained nicely to all of us what this agency is for, all of which is clear to us, but what is happening to this agency, where it, why it has not functioned, is here today we heard in the end line, obviously it is about incompetence. A vacuum has been created since New Year's, so here we are today discussing the Law again in a series of laws that could come down under the denominator "Pull dot doesn't apply". We passed the law, and then after that, we realized it wasn't going. Unfortunately, the public is entertained by conflicts between Minister Cobankovic and Pankretić, discussing whether they are in good or bad relations, and the chaos on the ground is happening and people cannot normally live and dispose of their agricultural land. It does not matter if there is a conflict, whether or not there is no conflict, but it is important that we did not succeed, but that at the bottom of the scale, we were the last to withdraw funds from the European Funds from the possible 25 million euros that we could get for agriculture, we pulled only half of the half of the half, 12 million euros. This inability to withdraw funds from the European Funds, unfortunately, will have the greatest impact on agriculture which, as well as on the very difficult situation. Minister Cobankovic, and here we are today, heard him say there is no new employment due to anti-recession measures, but by summer, the Agency will be operational. A few things she said about it. First, the headline of June 2007 "The Agency is a little late, but will soon work", September 2008. "We are on the move to the Agricultural Land Agency." Today February 2010 the agency is still not working. However, it was not so bad that it did not work in 2007 and 2008 because it was not needed at the time of the sale of agricultural land, but today nothing can be done without it. So today, in particular, people feel the consequences of a nonexistent agency. I can understand that some law can be passed so that there may be some problems in walking, so it must be changed either in the extreme line and quit, but if the opposition clearly points out, and we also pointed out in 2008 when the debate in the Assembly was here for the first time when the Law on Agricultural Land was passed, that it was unconstitutional, we pointed to all the negativity, today we point out but here it is stubbornly staying with its own, so we don't care what it does about living people who feel the consequences of inability and bad governance. So there's absolutely no responsibility. I mentioned at the beginning of the Law on Medical Aided Insemination, which is very much similar to this will likely come for a re-election, i.e. a debate in the Assembly. The minister says there were fewer medically assisted fertilizations but that's because it was summer, so I guess people got lazy in the summer. I don't know what excuse this law will be spoken of. I wonder, and my colleague Zgrebec mentioned, why the withdrawal of this law did not occur at the 12th month last year when it was seen that the agency would not live, that there would be chaos on the ground, but today. Meanwhile, there was no Parliament, but at the very end of the line, that argument could be respected last week. It all comes down to the fact that in Croatia it is easier to predict when an earthquake will occur than the conditions of business. What is happening around this Law is essentially just one detail, in the absence of any vision, which should make our agriculture finally competitive and our farmer satisfied that he can work from his work, or live from his work, I apologize. In conclusion, here is what to say to this unconstitutional law, except that this is an obvious example that the Government has no vision and that nothing better in the future will happen to Croatian peasants any time soon or later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47280	We have four more to discuss and two more replicas. First is the distinguished representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47281	Dear colleagues, Borzan, you have very well underlined in your debate that the government is correcting wrongly established laws and mistakes by new laws. However, unfortunately this seems to have become a rule and precisely because the laws do not simulate the consequences that individual laws will have after they are passed, so that most often in the description of the situation we can... It is mostly in line with the European Union guidelines, and that is what most of it is worrying because then it means law to law until such consequences are made that the laws must be corrected. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47282	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Biljana Borzana.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47283	Thank you, my colleague. That's why I said that this is another one in a series of laws that could be called "Pull dots don't apply". It is unacceptable that in such a way laws are passed in the Parliament, because unfortunately it is not considered when it is debated here that living people, their fates, and that we can make their lives very complicated, make them harder and it is our job to pass laws that will make life better for Croatian citizens. It's just that this isn't about how to help, it turns out that it's always kind of going to vote backwards on how to help people.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47284	We have another replica, Honorary Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47285	Dear colleague Borzan, you've made a fine chronological count of how the agency was created, but you also said that in 2008, when the proposal was not needed by the agency. I'm convinced that today you're even thinking about the need for the agency to start, along with all the offices, offices, chambers, services and a large ministry of agriculture, if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47286	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate. Honorable representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47287	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. There is, of course, a proposal to amend and supplement the Agricultural Land Act, the law that we passed in mid-2008, which is at the beginning of soaring 1.1. In 2009, he entered into force. Already at that time, the start of the work of the agricultural land agency was set at 1.1.2010, so it was given a year to prepare all this and that the agency could start working. The fact is that this law is indeed one of the essential laws that has caused many controversy, which has been written about a lot, has been said, and has also ended in the Constitutional Court in order for the Constitutional Court to demonstrate the constitutionality of that duplicate article 81, which regulates the management of private agricultural land. My predecessors have all pointed out that, and I have to, because even then in the debate on this law, I have opposed such a formulation and I have pointed out that there is, above all, a problem with this article in Slavonian villages. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Court has not yet shown itself about this, and here we already have changes and additions, and that is precisely in the section concerning this article, therefore, with regard to bodies that should carry out certain activities related to this particular article 81. I immediately have to say at the beginning that it is absolutely unacceptable for me to say that because of the economic crisis, recession, inability to hire people etc. So we couldn't get the agency started on 1.1.2010, and now in these 4.5 months, it's gonna be all right. So the funds were planned, I guess now there's opportunities and employment, and now it's all going to start in 4.5 months since July of this year. I'd say a farm land agency is one big problem. It represents a major problem to the extent that it represents the narrow throat of the development of Croatian agriculture, first of all because it obstructs certain things I would say and block even some processes that functioned by the end of last year, such as the process of purchasing agricultural land primarily in private ownership. So, as of 1 January this year, citizens had to and of course could offer their agricultural land to the agency, in fact, they couldn't because the agency doesn't exist. Since 1 January of this year, citizens have been able to sell their country, regulate some of their existential problems and return to the story of the economic crisis, the difficult conditions of life, the gatherings and everything else to meet their needs, but in fact they couldn't because there was no body that was legally guaranteed. I assure you that in Slavonia, especially Slavonian villages, there are a large number of people who have come this winter to say so to the wall and were convinced that by selling some of the land's particles they will be able to repay debts from last year, i.e. to buy wood and similar things. Unfortunately, they couldn't. Because wherever they appear, the new law is in force, no more personal sales, and then we see that the law is actually not in force. Here my colleague, my predecessor, also pointed out, and that's what's also eye-lashing. And that's that story about the farm land agency isn't a story from a year ago. It's a story that's still there since 2007. And I expect, I believe there was already some concept of the agency's work at that time, that there were some ideas about where certain difficulties could be expected and that since 2007, all these things have been possible to resuscitate and run in accordance with the law in this year's work of that agency. But unfortunately, it's not like that. The story is that from January 1st to July 1st, the agency has also been attributed since 2007, because it was said in February that the agency did not start at the beginning of the year, it will begin in July 2007. It's exactly the same as it was in 2007, so that's when it didn't start working. And here I am, in the end, because I appreciate that we have a little bit of a stalled debate, saying that I have no confidence in this, that in this 4.5 months, everything will be smoothed out so that the agency can start working and that ultimately the legal certainty of citizens who should be in accordance with the law, regardless of what I say, is neither of me at will nor of a large number of particularly citizens in Slavonian villages. Therefore, in order to comply with the law, everything prescribed by law would exist. I also hope that in this 4.5 month at least the interpretation of the Constitutional Court on the constitutionality of this duplicate article may come. But here is the fact that the entire Agricultural Land Act, especially in this part of the management of private land, I consider it bad, at the end of the day when it was passed, I was against that law for this very reason, and I cannot, of course, support this amendment because I do not see that this amendment and the addition of the law will be significantly improved, but above all, we have entered into the sphere of something called the short-term postponement. So, a few more months and we'll start working, and we'll see in July, or in June, if that's what it is, or if we're going to ask for an excuse again for a few months again, or if we're going to put it all quieter and quieter and then in one two years, reopen the story of the Agricultural Land Act that might be better, better and fairer first for Slavonian peasants. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47288	We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47289	My dear colleague, you have noted very well that the recession is the reason why the government has not established an agency so far cannot be acceptable. First because the claim that it will be established by July 1st means that Croatia has exited the recession, it is no longer available and the reasons why they have not done so so far have been removed. But there's something else. The Croatian Parliament regularly sat down if I am not mistaken until 11 December of last year. And then there was recession and crisis, and no one in the government noticed that there was a need to intervene in the law, because with the 1st of January, the agency won't start. Second. If this was not noticed by the Government and the State Secretary by 15 December, the Government could intervene between 15 December and 15 January with a regulation on why it was authorised to put that provision of the law out of force, i.e. to extend the period of application of that provision. It was not the government or the regulation that reacted, but waited for February 2010 with completely important reasons, asking the parliament to change the law. And on such examples regardless of whose people the Croatian Parliament of the state must insist on political responsibility because not only did this go to the harm of the citizens of this country but simply one inadmissible relationship of the executive to parliament when they are already caught in the fact that they are unable to prepare the law, they are not able to admit it publicly, but they give excuses that do not have a mild connection to the factual situation in the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47290	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47291	Thank you very much, dear colleague Lesar, for apostrophe of the exact term economic crisis, even though it is not stated here in the materials. So, we've heard on committees there's always an apology that it's about the economic crisis, they don't have the funds, etc. It's just a convenient excuse that's around us. But I will remind you that the Croatian government was probably the last body in Croatia to admit that there was an economic crisis in Croatia because before that all economic factors in Croatia, all the people dealing with the economy pointed to problems and the depth of the crisis that Croatia is entering. I am truly looking forward to it, I must say optimistic if you are then I and myself are that this is a sign that Croatia is coming out of the crisis. I'd rather say that maybe some things were solved so within the ministry that the moment had arrived to start again with this agency or was pressed after these short delays there the whole structure to that extent that it realized that there were problems on the ground and that these problems should somehow be justified. But I hope equally that no greater damage will come from all this to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the sense in which I have indicated. And I personally know in some villages that there have been very drastic cases where older people are, above all, inability to solve their existential problems, to solve it in God's way, and they couldn't sell their own piece of land because someone told them, you know, the new law is in effect, you have to comply with the law, and it wasn't possible by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47292	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. Three more to discuss. Honorable representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47293	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. In principle, when the state is concerned about the fate of agricultural land, it should expect a public reaction that will welcome this because it would testify that the state is aware of the value of agricultural land as one irreplaceable resource among other things and in preserving its own integrity and sovereignty. But what is wrong with this law is that it has caused such great controversy, such strong arguments against, such strong protests and such serious remarks. Remember, it was adopted in a pact practically with the Law on Golf Courses, which the Prime Minister also announces will be corrected, which the Croatian Helsinki Committee also says is completely unprepared, for which I have said in this debate that it is actually a law on the construction of apartment settlements on the edge of the golf course. Why is it tied to each other in the first place? Because the provisions of the Law on Agricultural Land actually enabled exactly the interpretation of the Law on Golf Courses. On the other hand, isn't reality something else but the state doesn't care about the fate of agricultural land. Wasn't the state first looking over the board in another's backyard or in a private yard, so that in one classical way, it would certainly regulate the issues of how private property would be held that the note was constitutionally protected? The right of ownership is a constitutionally protected category and therefore, among other things, this law has been a component of the position of constitutionality and the fact is that it is in the process of assessing its own constitutionality. The establishment of an agency that is actually resilient today in our debates since the beginning was speculative. What does that mean, the right of the state to first purchase private agricultural land? It was not fully defined what a new institution is and what an institute of first purchase that goes against other legal rules governing the transfer of ownership regardless of the inheritance, sale, compensation or something like that. I will remind, it is not a problem what will happen with private agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia, but how the state takes care of state agricultural land. And I'll remind you once again, the state agricultural land in the good part covers the hijacked property of private owners. In 1947, the Croatian Parliament took one law without the right to compensation for property of the land communities throughout continental Croatia. It was a notorious robbery case. And the people say they've been kidnapped. And instead of both the Government and the Croatian Parliament are dealing with the correction of this injustice because it is the only form of private corporate property that could not be returned to former owners by today, the state has been systematically inn and destroying agricultural and forest land, which by 1947 was in the care and exploitation of concrete people by name and last name. Many of them are still alive today. But not just that. Their children are alive who remember clearly what belonged to their land communities. And it's not easy for them to watch today's huge agricultural surfaces disappear into the shingle or the forest land of pubs, sale and cut under the hair. That is why very soon this House will also have opportunities to discuss and decide and demonstrate its credibility on this issue of correcting the 20-year injustice in the Republic of Croatia. But I'll remind you of another problem. How was the land of the state at the disposal of agricultural land on the example of its city. None of you have heard of Cushanec. This is one area in the Greater Gorica region where the state owns larger areas of agricultural land. It used to belong to the land communities mainly Kurilovac, but also to the noble municipalities and judges, which in 2001 gave a few days before the surrender of HDZ Mayor of Zagreb County to longtime rent to foreign close friends and people close to both the mayor and today's finance minister. What's the issue, would you say? So let the land of the land of the land be in operation, let it be done, let it be worked. Of course, that would be the logic of things. But he's planting new tenants, so-called. The orchards they never worked on, they never worked, but they were neatly looking at wonders, you and their orchards were in a place where one of the most important infrastructure facilities on the highway Zagreb – Sisak, a big loop on the access road in Kušanac, was to be built. And imagine from the entire stock of more than 40 km of highway Zagreb – Sisak the first building is one auxiliary facility. It's a loop on the access road in Kusanc, and these well-deserved citizens who got those orchards for use have been sharing millions of benefits from the state, and most of the lost crop. I am using this opportunity here to invite the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and USKOK to investigate this case of non-ordinary abuse of duty and corruption, because these are people who had privileged information where the facilities of the Zagreb – Sisak highway will be located. This is the problem that the state is taking care of that agricultural land in its portfolio, not what a small owner, the owner of a piece of land will do so that he can round up his own property or that his neighbor can finally acquire spatial conditions for the construction of his own house. And what have we done with this law? We've made it impossible for people to live and dispose of their agricultural land normally, so now that the water has come to their noses, we can all of a sudden wait for the establishment of the agency. Well, it would be best if the agency didn't, but if there were clear and loud rules to take care of that important resource, it would be private or state-owned, and there isn't. The capital stands either dead or has already become or unfortunately has already become prey of butchers, predators and those who have realized that the country is one of the few treasures that Croatia still has in its hands. How long? It's up to us first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47294	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Željka Antunović, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47295	A colleague, Beus Richembergh, would be quite clear about this law, but also about the implications of some other laws, but also some behaviours beyond the law in accordance with laws and abuses. I might not have responded to this replica if I hadn't seen his very clear and concrete speech cause more and more noise in this assembly, and I got the impression of ignoring what he was talking about. And that's why I actually want to replicate and relate to this debate. Comrade Richembergh, this law will pass as many, will be voted by most. Your appeal to the State's Attorney's Office and all other institutions of the rule of law will likely fall to fertile soil, but not within a short period of time, which would require both the necessary activities and final solutions. And it seems to me that we need to sit down to everyone who's having trouble with their stomachs, and so does the soul that you've been talking about, which is just part of the story that's happening every day in this country. We need to sit down and take some more concrete action, be more concrete, be more efficient than what we're talking about in this assembly. And obviously, that is not at all interested in many, that in many, it does not cause this one bad feeling in the stomach, regardless of the many families that have lived on agriculture, who want to live on agriculture, who want to have a different way with this land and who want the state to ensure as quickly as possible and as effective as possible conditions for them to be able to do what they know best and how best they know about this land.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47296	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Goran Beurs Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47297	Dear counterpart Antunovic, it is not difficult to agree with you formally looking. It's personal to me. I appreciate your political experience and probably the fact that you're more realistic about obstructions and the general framework in which we work at all. But here, I will reserve the right to do something with a shorter track in politics still may be more naive than it is comparable to one national representative in the Croatian Parliament, so I will believe that despite some noises, they may want to cover the nakedness of our practice in agricultural land, that those who have to hear it will still hear it and that the fact that the highway of Zagreb – Sisak has chosen a route on which more than 80% of the area is private to the one where more than 80% of the land was owned by the state. I therefore reserve my right to believe that in spite of the noise, and perhaps those sitting in this House who took incentives for state agricultural land, and didn't grow anything on land that the state and the party so kindly left for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47298	Your Honor, you've expressed your doubts about some of your colleagues. If you have evidence, please choose to substrate them, if you don't have to apologize. We're moving on with an individual discussion. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic is coming up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47299	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here these days I often get phone calls, and letters in which people, citizens of my constituency, ask why they can't sign up or conduct purchase contracts in connection with real estate traffic in Slavonia. And here we know now, now we know even though we could have known much earlier, so the Parliament was sitting until 11 December 2009, and it was time to announce then that there was nothing from the agency. In a letter that I received from one OBG owner, as it is liked to say, it is said that some of the items of this law are contrary to Article 48. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guaranteeing the right to have and the right to own property in such a way as to prevent the owners of agricultural land from having freedom of choice to whom they will sell their land. This opens a wide space for semi-legislative actions because we will get a flood of gift contracts that will allow faster implementation of the booklet of ownership rights. Furthermore, local self-government units that are not trained in human beings, e.g. some small municipalities like Caglin that have not conducted any valid tender for the lease or for the sale of agricultural land. There are still such municipalities, and consent has been obtained to the Agricultural Lands Programme owned by the Republic of Croatia. It also states that if the local self-government unit does not implement the Agricultural Land Availability Programme on which it received consent from the ministry, it should be determined. if no competition has been opened within one year. Furthermore, in two articles of this Act, 77 and 81, therefore there are not only doubts but in our opinion and anti-constitutional provisions, we have also tried to amend, so on Article 77(2), that at the end of the sentence, the intervention in the transport of agricultural land is to be added "and at the request of the owner". So, if there's no such request, then there's no need to intervene. Furthermore, in Article 81(2), we think it would be a good definition that the owner of agricultural land located outside the construction area, and intends to sell or lease his agricultural land, and there is no known interested buyer or tenant, only then is he obliged to supply an offer to the local self-government unit. As we can see, this delay in this bill of law and the confusion that occurred in the garters is only one in a series of unsustainableness, indecisiveness, wandering, incompetence, incompetence and people in it. ... And irresponsibility. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you, Mr. Lesar. And it's not yesterday and it's not just with this bill. So-called We implement the agrarian reform on a continuous basis, so from the same people or even the same person, who has been headed by the Ministry of Agriculture since the Government of the coalition partners of SDP-HSS-HNS and has continued to continue, here for ten years. It's interesting how, it's going to go back to history as a ten-year endeavor to carry out some kind of agrarian reform, to finally office relations, strategy and everything else in agriculture, but it doesn't work. And now again, based on this proposal, we're going to have a legal proposal, here's a constitutional lawsuit, and a great resistance of citizens to this bill. Do we work here for the citizens or against them? Are we going after them or are we just going the other way? It is true that there is not only political responsibility for this kind of sloppyness in terms of delaying the creation of the agency, and whether this political responsibility will increase when we find again on July 1st this year, there are no conditions for the creation of the agency, so we will again extend the deadline for which someone here immediately suggested it to be December 31st this year. A million hectares owned by the state, a million and 300 thousand hectares privately owned by the Republic of Croatia. The state has not yet managed in connection with these millions of its hectares in many municipalities to make or sell or rent. Witnesses of massive poisoning in municipalities where major misunderstandings occur. It is not true that everything is arranged and that municipalities are carrying out the sale and lease of land neatly. About a month ago, two days ago it was in Drenj, in Osijek-Baranja County there was a conflict. It was in other municipalities, in the Gundins, where everything was gone. Don't say everything flows like honey and milk. This is actually, this law is one preparation or entry to the small door of the sale of agricultural land under a shelling company, called rounding, so that the poor Slavonian and Croatian peasant who is here and by this extension in this recession becomes more and more poor and finally sees their survival in the sale of their grandfatherland. Who? To those who have money or have more and more. These are tycoons, and by adopting European laws on transport, the possibilities of real estate and sales to foreigners, we will come to the conclusion that a large number of Slavonian peasants, and Croatian peasants will become on their homeland, on their holdings a globalised farmer. I used to say farmer, but now he's a globalized farmer, because he's part of globalisation, whatever you mean, we actually brought our peasant to be just like that soon, with that adjective, and we know most of what that means. The draft budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 provided funding for the Agency, and it is not true that due to anti-recession measures, the agency could not form. Oh, please. In some ways, it's according to the state's intentions and the agency itself is acting as an anti-recession, as far as I understand. Then why isn't it formed? So it is this unsupervisedness, incompetence, irresponsibility that has led to this and therefore, as well as my colleague Lesar, I agree that there is more than political responsibility for this situation. Take it easy. Besides, Mr. Beus Richembergh overheard just a little... in connection. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] Please don't be rude. And it is the right one. About... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47300	Thank you. Thank you very much. Here we go. What? ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We have another debate, please be patient. I guess it's Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic Marinović, because it's hard to read from here, but I still think it's you. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47301	Your assumptions were justified. Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are at the end, and very short. The government’s proposal, namely the original Law on Agricultural Land, showed, in particular, that it does not want to be, or that it is not enough that it is not useful, but would want to be even more harmful. That this happened in one country where there was a responsibility of the ruling, not only for the resolute minister to fly away, but for the entire government together. And many would be happy not to find themselves on the other side of the lock, because of the material responsibility they have caused their own citizens. So, I believe that it's actually been added to this, because the government thinks so little about the citizens when they need to meet something that she eventually imposed herself on, and she's committed herself to doing it, she cares so much about the citizens, she thinks so much about them. But think when it comes to luring them, when it comes to making promises, that government is very sweet. And this would basically happen almost and beyond the knowledge of the public all the time if the media hadn't talked about this, if it hadn't been for the shame, and then the government just because it was repairing the damage here came up with this, this kind of bill of law. In the light of the law, citizens are taken so much care of, and also of us here as advocates, that it does not explain why the agency did not start working. Not a single word. True, though, the poor colleague tried, so seeing that there was no argument at all, she wanted to justify the government, I appreciate the effort, but there is no benefit, because it is not true and you can imagine that because of the anti-recession measures the government did not implement this measure. So why didn't she disband the agency? Why didn't she make it possible for people, because, yes, it was to make it clear to everyone what this is all about. The government forbade citizens to dispose of their own property, for it had promised them that the agency would do so much better and smarter for them, and then left them hanging. And people can't afford it. Communism has returned. So hateful system. ... Yeah, I'm sorry, pals, maybe you're a little more experienced about that, so you're saying he could have it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, and really things aren't funny at all. After all, that's not even true, because this employment ban, which has nothing to do with this, but it's wrong, it came out, it's the government's regulation that came somewhere by the arrival of Prime Minister Kosor, somewhere in the 7th month. And this law was passed half a year ago, seven months ago. What did you do seven months ago? What were you doing? You have done nothing, and you have forbidden people to possess their own possessions. Who's going to answer? Who will be responsible for this damage? And all the time, all the government programs say land we need to put into operation, our people don't know it, it's big capital, it's dead capital that's lying to us. And no one. And just to remind ourselves of the powers of this agency, how complex and complex knowledge that people must have, specifically in their profession. Especially as a geometry, as a lawyer. And even as people who know agriculture, as agronomists. Well, who knows? So they must have all the specific knowledge, the special knowledge, but also the comprehensive knowledge, complexly sought here. Who are these people who are going to do this here? And as we're already used to the government's unhappiness, what happens if the agency doesn't take over again on July 1st, not only if it's established, but not take over all of its responsibilities and tasks under the law? The same situation will take place again. That is why, since we know who we are dealing with, with irresponsible authority, in any case, the Commission should complete Article 4’s provision that, if the agency does not enter, it does not start with the work of 1 July 2010, that citizens, or farmers, may also have their own properties. As is this supplement here. So 19 million kuna was secured in the budget, unfortunately, the question is, where are they, whether they failed, whether they are now insured for the agency. It's hard to talk about at all. Here I will also vote in favour of this bill for the sake of citizens to allow them to dispose of their own property until the government remembers what it is to do and what its job is by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47302	Thank you. We have two corrections. First Mr. Davor Huška, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47303	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Anticevic said the government thinks little of the citizens. Just this change of law, the prolongation of the Agency's deadline on the market speaks in favor of your reflection. The ministry thinks about the citizens, it's extending by six months. by 01.07. that citizens can manage their agricultural land without a problem. The honest and honest ministry and government recognises in this way that there are problems in launching the Agency's operational work and thus comes out to the citizens and gives them the opportunity to dispose of agricultural land. I believe they'll do the same in case there's a problem related to the deadline foreseen by these amendments to the law, which means 01/07. Citizens will certainly not have problems available to their agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47304	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47305	A colleague has violated the order of the Member State. 209. Rules of Procedure, he was correcting his opinion again, which he had no right to do. Why didn't he encourage himself and point out a bold replica? It's hiding behind the correction of an incorrect allegation. And that's not exactly what you said. In fact, this is the only one that would be true, but you were correcting something that I didn't say that the government really remembers citizens when they need to be peeled with taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47306	No, but it's a general phenomenon that a replica may be corrected by actually correcting the firm's incorrect quote, but it's a general phenomenon. I don't think there's any need to raise a plate for something that's unfortunately a general phenomenon in the Parliament and it's not just about one party, you know, but it's a general phenomenon. Second, Mrs. Nevenka Marinovic's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47307	Here, Your Honor, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of colleague Marinovic, who said that anti-recession measures did not affect the establishment of the agency. I would like to remind you, many of the anti-recession measures, the laws, but also the reduction of the funds that I have cited in my debate. It also means a reduction in the resources of certain, i.e. intended for the establishment of an agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47308	Thank you. And in conclusion, I hope very corely will Secretary of State Josip Kraljičković, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47309	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives. I thank you for a very interesting and useful discussion of how I hope for our administration for our agriculture as well. The basic concept of the Law on Agricultural Land in 2001 is also contained in this law, which was passed by the Parliament in 2008, and whose replacement, today's amendment, we are discussing. It is important to distinguish the introduction of the Agricultural Land Agency with a view to more efficient and better management of total agricultural land. So, both private and state. And this also means better preparation for Croatia's entry into the EU and the time when it will come, when foreign citizens will be able to buy Croatian agricultural land freely. For farmers, for the profession and for the administration it is difficult to compare cars, movables with Croatian agricultural land. I am convinced that we all know well that each ministry is run by a minister, not by a secretary of state or by a secretary of state. We in agriculture must be living, and that means being willing to accept the challenges as well as adapt to real living conditions. That's how we accept this need to amend the law. The Agricultural Land Agency may be in office until July 1st, and this depends inter alia on political will. And that further means that we will be prepared for possible and new amendments to the law. I thank you again for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47310	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. And on behalf of all of you, I hope that this is how you would publicly express our wishes to be explained to us more for the reasons known to us and to come here and do us the honor of sometimes ministers, although we also appreciate the secretary of state, of course. Well, like one general remark, I think it might stand. Just as the secretary of state mentioned, and what are the responsibilities of ministers, state secretaries and others. We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. No. 509, the motion for an act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the HDSSB Representatives' Club and MP Zvonimir Mršić. I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State Josip Kraljičković to show on behalf of the Government that amendments are being made. First, the amendment of the Legislative Committee to Articles 1 and 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47312	Amendments to the Legislative Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47313	And Article 4?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47315	Thank you. They become an integral part of the proposal. And we have an amendment to the HDSSB's Club on Article 77.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47316	It's unacceptable. The amendment does not apply to the amendment of the law. In addition, it is contrary to the purpose of setting up an agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47317	Thank you. On behalf of the club Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47318	So this amendment is about not getting in the way of private property rights, private property. Besides, it'll be a constitutional court case anyway, and then we'll see who's right. And I'm asking for the vote of the MP on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47319	Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And the amendment of Mršić's representative to Article 3, No. 1 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47320	It is not accepted because the attached amendment is suitable for local self-government units to fail the program as soon as possible, and since 2002 we have brought the first programme, so here it has already been eight years, so it is necessary to hurry... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47321	Thank you. There are no MPs. I now put this amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. and the second amendment of the same agent to Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47322	It is not accepted because the purpose is to move quickly with the availability of agricultural land and to recognise contracts concluded in the meantime so that we do not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-05-0.u47323	There are no MPs. Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Land Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The bill was adopted by a majority of votes, 92 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 7 against, together with the amendments adopted. Let's go to - - Final proposal of the Law on the Professional Education and Education Agency of adults, second reading, P.Z. No. 438 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This bill will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr. Željir Janjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
