ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63811	Your Honor, Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs. This is the 6th report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds provided in the state budget for the needs of national minorities. The report was drawn up in accordance with the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of 26 February 2000, and for every area that can be seen is an assessment of the exercise of the rights guaranteed by the Constitutional Law. The Republic of Croatia is dedicated to protecting and enabling the exercise of the rights of all our national minorities. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities and the entire legal framework of the Republic of Croatia has provided a high level of national minority rights according to international documents. Further improvement of legal regulation specifically through the adoption of the Law on Discontinuation of Discrimination and the Law on Free Legal Assistance created legal conditions for further improving the position of national minorities. According to our assessment, the report reflects further progress in achieving the rights of national minorities secured by the Constitutional Law. The greatest progress has been made in the education of members of national minorities, as well as the achievement of cultural autonomy through the work of associations and national minority institutions, for which the state stands out specific financial resources. The continued increase in cultural autonomy of members of national minorities is also assessed by the European Commission. For the different needs of members of national minorities from education, preservation and development of cultural heritage, cultural programmes, publishing, in particular Roma programmes and other activities in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia over the past year, funds amounting to more than 157 million kuna have been provided, which is an increase of around 1% compared to the previous year in 2008. On 6 October this year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a conclusion adopting the Report on the implementation of an action plan for the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities for 2008 and 2009, in charge of the Office for National Minorities to draw up a new Action Plan for the implementation of the Constitutional Law for the period from 2011 to 2013, and at the latest by the end of 2010. In drawing up this new action plan, the comments of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities will also be taken into account, and of course, the observations made in the latest report of the Committee of Experts of the Council of Europe on the application of the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages by the Republic of Croatia will be taken into account. So we've got a lot of work to do. In short, good norms should continue to turn into life's reality. I would say that a good deal of work has already been done with recent constitutional changes, which will certainly be more in the next report. In front of you respected MPs and respected representatives is a large material with mostly original contributions, you also have representatives of the ministry who will pay attention to your suggestions and act accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63812	Thank you, Vice President. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Mr. Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63813	Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. At its 39th session held on 29 September 2010, the Human Rights and Rights Committee discussed the 2009 report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the purposes of national minorities provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the Act of 1 July 2010. The Committee considered the report as a parent working body. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The businessman of the Croatian Parliament. It is estimated that the report under consideration shows the state of play in the implementation of the Constitutional Law during 2009, and that a fairly realistic picture of the extent to which the rights of national minorities are guaranteed by law in the Republic of Croatia can be obtained on the basis of it. It has also been significantly assessed that, in connection with any minority law, the Government in the report gave the implementation of the legal provisions in accordance with the recommendations made by this Committee and the Parliament in earlier discussions on the implementation of the Constitutional Law. However, it was also concluded that the requirements of the Committee and the Parliament regarding the concept of the report were not realised until the end. In view of the fact that the provisions of the Constitutional Law which have been found not to be implemented satisfactorily, no analysis of the cause of the problem has been given. It is not indicated who is responsible for such a situation, nor is it specified what body and within what time will undertake to solve the identified problems. The debate highlights, in addition to all these positive results in the exercise of the rights guaranteed by the constitutional law, that there are still many areas where there is a difference between the normative solutions and the declared policy on the one hand and what is being achieved in practice. It is pointed out that in the 2009 report under review, as well as in previous reports, the most common problems are identified in the case of the right to use the language and letters of national minorities, the right to represent national minorities in state administration bodies and judicial authorities, the right to represent national minorities in the local and regional self-government authorities and the right to access national minorities through public communications. It was also warned that due to the problem of realisation, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted an Action Plan for the implementation of the constitutional law establishing the measures and means and deadlines and the holders of the tasks of the implementation of the law. In view of the importance of the document mentioned in the debate, it was assessed that the report on its implementation following the examination in the Government should be submitted to the Committee in accordance with its section of the Rules of Procedure set out in the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. In this regard, it is also pointed out that further progress in the implementation should be made to develop the Action Plan, to strengthen the supervision of state authorities over the implementation of the constitutional law at local and regional level, and to ensure that the Government has continued to monitor the implementation of those measures set out in the Action Plan, which is in part the state-level bodies. In view of the fact that Article 37(2) of the Constitutional Law lays down that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is harmonising the work of the State Administration in the application of that law and of the specific laws establishing issues of importance for national minorities. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusions: "1. A report on the implementation of the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 for the needs of national minorities is hereby adopted. 2. It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to provide the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities with a report on the implementation of the Action Plan for the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63814	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Ivan Bagarić, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63815	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia discussed this item of the agenda as an interested working body. Government representatives presented the report and stressed that despite the difficult economic situation, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has provided all the necessary resources in the state budget for minority projects and that, accordingly, an enviable level of insurance of minority rights is achieved. All participants in the debate expressed satisfaction that Croatia is indeed an example when it comes to caring for national minorities. Also, as in the previous discussions concerning this report, an undivided view has been expressed on the basis of reciprocity, and in line with European standards, the Government of the Republic of Croatia should continue to insist on the full protection of the Croatian national minorities in neighbouring and other European countries. The report in the section called "Bilateral Cooperation" shows the funds allocated from the state budget for Croatia's national minority in European countries. It was found that these funds are more than insufficient and become disproportionate to the funds allocated to national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. The importance of the full engagement of the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the level of bilateral agreements and the achievement of reciprocity with neighbouring countries in which the Croatian minority lives in order to ensure the same status, the same status as that of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. A representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration informed the Committee on the work of the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is responsible for drawing up a strategy of the Republic of Croatia's relationship with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which would, among other things, be in addition to bilateral agreements with countries where the Croatian minority is living, provide for additional mechanisms for protecting the Croatian minority in European countries. Following the debate, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the conclusion: "A report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the purposes of national minorities is accepted."
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63816	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63817	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the sixth report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities and the cost of the funds provided in the state budget. I, on behalf of the HDZ Club, can say that this report is extensive and that it is very detailed. During 2009, the report shows that there has been a significant improvement in the legal regulation of certain areas of human rights, which are also directly maintained in the positions of the rights of national minorities. First of all, we can say that the adoption of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination as well as the Law on Free Legal Assistance is a great credit. We can say that these two laws and national minorities have ensured better quality implementation of their rights. As we have already heard here that at the 16th session of the Croatian Parliament, this year in February adopted the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities for 2008 and then tasked the Government of the Republic of Croatia to provide for the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the measures to be taken to resolve each of the problems observed. In accordance with this conclusion, we see that, after each chapter, a brief assessment of implementation, reasons for insufficient implementation, and recommendations for the next period is also given. So, you should do it. In order to improve the implementation of the Constitutional Law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia also adopted an action plan for the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in 2008 which established the measures, holders, deadlines and resources. This is the responsibility of the departments and other state bodies for the implementation of certain articles of the Constitutional Law. This report shows that the state budget also provides greater resources for the implementation of the Constitutional Law than the 2008 funds. Furthermore, provisions of the Constitutional Law and provisions of specific laws governing the rights and freedoms of members of national minorities must be interpreted and applied with a purpose of respect. The National Minorities Office also participated, in some way co-ordinated the creation of this Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and all the competent ministries and other state bodies in charge of implementing certain provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities participated in it. The report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the Cost of Funds shows one major improvement in the exercise of the rights of members of national minorities secured by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. The report also shows what I believe we can all be pleased that the Republic of Croatia is committed to protecting and enabling all rights, the rights of all national minorities. The constitutional law and the other legislative framework in the Republic of Croatia have ensured a high level of national minorities' rights in accordance with international documents. Further improvement of legal regulation, especially by the laws that I have already mentioned here, which are the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination and the Law on Free Legal Assistance created legal conditions for further improving the position of national minorities. The high level of rights for which the Republic of Croatia has defined is a good organisation both at the state and especially at the local level. Of course, for the exercise of all rights of national minorities, the most important means are the funds, which amounted to more than 157 million kuna in 2009. So more than the funds spent in 2008. In recent years, we can say that progress in the exercise of the rights of national minorities is the most visible in the education of national minorities, as well as the achievement of cultural autonomy, the work of associations and the institutions of national minorities for which the state allocates considerable resources. The Republic of Croatia will continue to make efforts to ensure that the rights of national minorities are achieved at the highest possible level, so that all laws governing the exercise of the rights of national minorities are respected. In the next period, therefore, it is necessary to do so, and all in order to make it more effective to implement the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities more intensive activities in the implementation of the established measures of the Action Plan for the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities for which the competent ministries and other national authorities are responsible. In the end, I think it can be concluded that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken measures to ensure that members of national minorities' rights are fully exercised in all areas, and in the coming period, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will certainly continue all in order to further strengthen control over the implementation of the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. I would like to finally say that, for all the positive features of this report, for the great promotion shown in this report, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all the relevant ministries, the Council for National Minorities, are that for such a good report, there is certainly a large amount of merit and representatives, members of national minorities in this House. Finally, I would like to point out that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63818	Thank you. We have an announcement. The 45th session of the Committee on Economy will be held today, so on 24 November at 14:00 at Ivan Kukuljevic's Hall. On behalf of the HNS and HSU Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63819	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. There is not just one material that is extensive in front of us, because it is really a document which, in a very well-examined way, brings from different sources a whole series of important, interesting data and reports that are not quite uniform in methodological terms, but which, with a considerable effort, provide an opportunity to look at the picture of the situation in the area of meeting the obligations that the Republic of Croatia has undertaken by adopting the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, as well as how the resources from the state budget are spent on cultural autonomy, but also by a whole series of other very important areas of action without which it is impossible to talk about the preservation of cultural identity, the development of educational needs and their fulfillment, but also about other programmes that are carried by national minorities and their organisations, which make them a complex part of our multicultural society, which is dominantly one national, but which in its tradition and in its history, notes, is worth a series of national minorities of which many so-called. autochtons and some that have occurred in the past century. If we look at the financial report, it is also important because it shows that the Republic of Croatia at an annual level for the needs of national minorities and the fulfilment of standards established by constitutional law separates around 20m euros. It's a big money, and it's a big deal and it's important to know that money to manage and manage in the right way. Although in 2009, it was recessional, although many items in the state budget could be expected to experience redesign, reduction, restrictions, savings, the Republic of Croatia, or the Government, and then by adopting the state budget, but also all the rebalancing that took place in 2009 did not significantly reduce the funds allocated to national minorities in 2009 compared to 2008 and should be said that absolute figures, absolute amounts indicate that in 2009 it even increased. What we need to look at is how analytical costs are happening according to certain activities, because some of these data point to permanent problems that may occur or have already occurred this year, and so we can see that, from the Ministry of Culture in 2009 about 6, slightly more than 6 million kunas, i.e. about 6 million kunas, and that is to remind me of the items from which magazines, purchase books, publishing activities, musical sites, theatre, art activities, international cultural cooperation, cultural and artistic activity, cultural heritage protection, the financing of libraries of national minorities. 6 million kunas of differences, so the fall from 15 to 9 and 300 thousand is indeed drastic, and testifys that in 2009 there probably has been a delay in funding part of these parts for many minorities of important programmes, and I hope that this funding disorder will not be reflected in the quality of cultural production in the long term, and the quality of those activities that testify to the lives of national minorities and their organisations when it comes to cultural creation, because we need to know that in many national minorities cultural creation is one of the most important mediums of showing and preserving their identity. In particular, this refers to minorities who have publishing activities in their native language, and without which it is impossible to speak in the long term about the preservation, care of the language itself, the mother tongue among members of national minorities. So I hope that this kind of disorder has not occurred, and that in the long run, the standard that has been reached, which is really high, and if we compare ourselves with other countries, I would say appropriate that it will therefore be maintained in the long term. One of the items that is significantly smaller compared to 2008, is the stimulation given by the Council for Electronic Media, which amounted to slightly less than 2 million in 2009, and one year before that was more than 8 and a half million kuna. We know that the Electronic Media Council in particular encourages certain types of programmes that are not commercial, and which cannot produce radio and television stations themselves in their regular activities from their own resources. The fact is that in 2008, only less than 2, says that there is likely to be a fall in the minutes of the programme in the languages of national minorities or of those emissions intended for national minorities, i.e. national minorities, i.e. dealing with their lives, so I would dare say in some environments and problems. That's not good. This is not good because in the era of commercialisation of information programmes, but also programmes in general, especially in electronic media, the number of minutes will certainly decline unless there is a way to maintain this by special assistance from the Council for Electronic Media. Some radio stations have first and foremost realized that this is a good way to provide a stable means in their financial planning and to repay their long needs and reporting obligations and in the language of national minorities, i.e. the management of a part of their software content according to that part of the listeners, and in the case of television stations and viewers. As it is extremely important for national minorities to know about their work and life not only the members of their minorities but also members of the majority people, then it is a need to ensure that the longer the programme in terms of minutes is publicly justified because the social role, position and resolution of the challenges faced by national minorities is impossible without the understanding of the majority people. In order for the majority of the people to know and understand this kind of problem, it is particularly important that this information is presented in the media. What we see as one constant is the work of the National Minorities Council to preserve the level of financial capacity in terms of monitoring the work of national minority organisations on the entire range of programmes, in particular the achievement of cultural autonomy, information and training of council members and representatives of national minorities, joint programmes of national minorities organisations, but also their own information programmes, i.e. publishing programmes. In this regard, there was no significant disturbance in terms of the amount of budget that the Council had, so in 2009, it was only minor, I would say less than 100,000 kuna, lower than in 2008. What certainly challenges attention is the means to implement the National Programme for Roma and the Decade of Action for Roma inclusion because in 2009 more than 38 million kuna were allocated to the implementation of these two very important programmes while in 2008 the amount was double the amount. So in 2009, Roma organisations, initiatives, programmes and needs were followed twice as many as a year ago. Unfortunately, it seems to us from the report not only of those that we have here sublime but particularly of the report by the Ombudsman, both on a regular basis and on the one relating to the implementation of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination that thus increased separations in 2009 did not give birth to a new quality on such a large scale as increased funds, but we are actually assuming long-term programmes that should only give their results. But taking into account only one kind of problem facing the Roma community, which is the question of employment, we will see that it is being stagnated and that we have not been able to do much. So when comparing the figures of those who have passed education only employment training, i.e. empowerment for self-employment, and in particular the figures of those who have been employed so-called. There are no significant shifts in seasonal works or public works. If we haven't been able to establish a shift in the last three years then it's not a good situation. Because we know that the Roma population is primarily plagued by the question of education and employment, that is, the economic sustainability of their families and communities. If we fail to do something concrete, important and crucial better than before, we have not moved from the point we were at 2 or 3 years ago. In that sense, it would be worth it, it seems to me to further valorize everything that is done on this plan, to see where these are moments that do not allow more significant progress and how we can help through joint action. What I would like to say in the end on behalf of the HNS-HSU club is that the funds allocated to the work of councils and representatives of national minorities are indeed impressive, but there is a need for different monitoring of the spending of these funds. We would not like to generalise, but we have information from a whole series of sources and about a whole series of cases where these funds are not spent transparently, especially in the case of representatives of national minorities, in the councils it is somewhat different, and we hope that the latest amendments to the law, i.e. the adoption of the Law on Coordination, will introduce little order and funding, and then follow the spending of these funds. In fact, we must be aware of the fact that such a good system as we have imagined this hour does not follow the high interest of the minorities themselves. So many representatives and council members have been elected with a critically small number of votes where the vote response to the elections for representatives and councils is very, very low. In some cases below 10%, the question arises whether these councils and those representatives are strong enough to be able to act in the local communities of quality in the interest and for the benefit of the national minority. Furthermore, I would just like to say one more thing about us, here I am already red, which is that as a parliamentary representative and a member of the national minority, I am not satisfied that we minorities, whether we are elected in minority or majority election units, are involved in the work of the Croatian Parliament. Some colleagues elected in minority units have not yet spoken in this House in three years, some have only reported three times to correct someone else's incorrect allegations, and they do not have one. I don't like it, especially when he's a representative representing me and my national minority. On behalf of the HNS-HSU Club, I announce that we will support and support the report on the spending of funds and implementation of the Constitutional Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63820	Thank you. We have one correction, Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63821	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Namely, I would just like to correct my colleagues in the part where he talked about reduced resources for the press and publishing of national minorities. I must say that the printing and publishing of national minorities is financed from the state budget in the segment of cultural autonomy, i.e. those resources allocated by the Council and these funds are not reduced. However, publishing can also be financed from the Ministry of Culture where it then goes to a competition, normally with majority programs, and depending on the quality it is supported or not supported and there is then possible if there were no quality programmes offered to reduce the funds. But the emphasis on funding within the council's programme has not been reduced and the presses in the languages of the national minorities that were previously funded have also been financed in the past year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63822	Thank you. On behalf of the National Minority Club, Ms. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63823	Dear President, Deputy Prime Minister, the esteemed secretary of individual ministries, colleagues and colleagues. Indeed, the degree of protection, i.e. the degree of exercise of rights and freedoms, and these certainly include the rights of national minorities, are a reflection of the democracy of a country and must be accepted but also regulated at a high level. The Republic of Croatia has done so first and foremost by adopting several laws that are exclusively related to national minorities, but equally to the Constitution, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, two laws specifically intended for special areas, which is the use of language and letter of national minorities officially, as well as education in the languages of national minorities is regulated by specific laws. And in other laws, whether it's a law on non-discrimination or some other, it's equally protected by the rights of national minorities. Certainly, along with the normative arrangements of the rights of members of national minorities, to take care of normative arrangements and material-financial assumptions for the exercise of these rights laid down by the laws, one such right and the necessity to regulate was just spoken by counterpart Richembergh. I will, however, look more closely at the report itself on the implementation of the Constitutional Law and the spending of funds because we know that the law has practically been in place for 8 years, that we have a 6th report and that the same conclusion was reached this year for the 2008 Report, where it was required that, in addition to the finding on the achievement or failure of a certain right, measures taken by the Government should also be defined in order to address these problems. I will go in order as indicated in this report, above all a reference to the equal official use of language and letters. Although there are 4 ways in which, or by means of which national minorities are entitled to the official use of language, it means either that in a population of more than 1/3 members, or on the basis of international contracts, 3. this may be prescribed by the statutes, very often, whether or not they are deliberately omitted rights, which are precisely in Article 2 of the said Act on the use of the official language, it is emphasized that the rights acquired are not changed or abolished. Unfortunately, whenever this report is given, that right is forgotten. Analysing the state of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia and where the official, or minority language is in use, or how many units of local self-government should be based on these four said rights on the use of the official language of 120 units of local self-government, today barely 60 units of local self-government have official use of minority language. If we reject 45 units of local self-government in the area of Istria, i.e. the Italian language, it turns out that not 20 units of local self-government relating to other minorities, only has official use of minority language, it is 7.8 units of local self-government where the Serbian language is introduced, two are Czech minority, two units of local self-government, etc., which is certainly insufficient. On several occasions we warned the Ministry, and finally the Government, that it is necessary to make order here and that after 8 years to carry out supervision of the statutes that did not regulate it, means the statutes of the units of local self-government, but also to implement whether it makes sense to ask in one unit, whether it has a right, whether the unit wants it and to download it from these lists 120. Or to define where this right exists, to ask for it to be implemented in the statutes and to apply it. Or where you don't want to, or because of a new redistribution within units, or when you form units of local self-government in 93 years, there's been a change, that we simply say that there's no conditions there, even though looking at it as a legal follower, it's being run here within 120 units. Therefore, when we talk about the use of the official language, the Ministry states that the education of staff employed by local self-government, as the education of mayors, mayors and mayors has begun, I think it is just the point of carrying out administrative supervision, sorting and implementing, because it is not normal that the supervision was carried out only in some 30 units of local self-government, that in others it is not, however, about 8 years of implementation of the Constitutional Law. The following is the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and the Deputy Prime Minister said that the most done here and the Club of National Minorities always stresses that, indeed, when it comes to education in the languages of national minorities, almost everything has been done, or most. If we start with the meaning of schools, of all models A,B,C used in the education of national minorities, they are carried out when we look at teaching documents, it is now in the languages of national minorities, textbooks are either translated or issued according to opportunities, but it is certainly done on them, education of teaching staff, teaching staff is also carried out so that I think that one day I would like to say just that about the rest of the ministries, and that can, for sure, be possible, it is evidence here because here they needed certain funds. In many other rights, there is no need to even provide material resources, but there is only a good will to do something about it. And this is an example of, say, the Ministry of the Interior where we still have very few issued cards that do not ask for large funds to be issued, but very often the need for a clerk's lack of will, there is always a reason why he does not want to issue a card. And you know people are sensitive to that. He comes for his ID card, starts asking questions, he immediately thinks it's something he shouldn't, people give up. Therefore, and I will immediately link this to what I have already asked here on behalf of the Club of National Minorities questions of declaring membership to the national minority. Still field officials do not want to implement it, they say they do not have the direction of their ministry, that they do not have the guidance of their supervisor, although we do know that this is the right of an individual and an individual when it comes to pleading he cannot consume it. The same is true when the use of symbols and symbols of national minorities in individual units of local self-government. There is talk of insufficient information. Yes, insufficient information and members of national minorities, but even more those who should do so and who must first define it through their statutes so that members of national minorities can consume it. If you are not defined by the statutes of a municipality, the city when symbols of national minorities can be applied, then normally that even the national minorities will not apply it except in their offices, because they simply fear that at some point they do not violate some right because we have had cases of detachment of minority flags even though it has been acquired right, but here it is not prescribed by acts. There has been a lot of talk on access to public communication means, i.e. in particular, electronic media, Article 18. It is often mentioned by all MPs or members of national minorities and is still a problem in HRT where there is not enough emissions in the languages of national minorities, although Croatia is a signator of the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages. Recently, I think the government has submitted the fourth report, in any case it always returns to us that languages in the media are not sufficiently represented. When we watched the HRTV report consider it the International Folklore Survey, Vinkovačka fall, Boat Wheel minority show, it is still not fair from television itself or it is completely ignorant or simply there is no desire to do so. But let me also say something about the Agency for Electronic Media, or here in the report, about how large funds have been allocated in that position. I, in front of myself from that report, deliberately pulled out the Electronic Media Agency, where it says that for 2009 alone, a million 937 thousand were allocated for national minority emissions and now 15 positions are listed here. But let me have one remark. The Fund's allocations are not exclusively related to the emissions listed but to all the software content reported by the publisher in the public tender. And that means that of these listed here because every publisher can report 4 to 5 shows, let's take realistically 1/5 is that it eventually went to national minority emissions. So, to say that 2 million is singled out of the fund, I would be happy if that was 200 or 400 of what I said was a fifth, but unfortunately it's not because I called a single radio, I asked what specific emissions are, because we've been fighting for a long time now that the Council for Electronic Media from the Fund that was just meant for pluralism and diversity, that indeed in this diversity, we are counting the emissions in minority languages, because on the one hand we are obliged to produce and broadcast. On the other hand, when we were thinking about it, about 2001, when we passed the HRT Act out of the 3% subscription, we were just thinking about it, and it was the urgency that these funds were being rerouted to a large part of the minority emissions, because, unfortunately, there is no possibility of creating and broadcasting emissions in minority languages, because most of the time, it's the d.o.o.s that are being financed on the market. And if we don't secure funds and at that level radio stations simply aren't able or they don't want to produce and broadcast emissions in minority languages. Of course, I also want to talk about the councils, the councils of national minorities already mentioned here today in the context that many councils are not being financed today, or those financed to spend non-transparently. I'll agree to that, too. I must say that out of 240 councils and 140 representatives almost 30% today they still do not receive materials, they do not receive funds, they do not have space to work, which is also the case after 8 years of application and in the power of this law is not allowed. In parallel, one large part of them do not receive any funding at all, and I expect that this register on the councils of national minorities and on representatives and on coordination will indeed affect this section of the regulation of Council financing and spending in order to be transparent. The Club of National Minorities will certainly support this report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on Expensive Resources, because surely there is a shift, but I think we must all do more together and exactly what we find not implemented this year, find ways to implement it, because we are ultimately bound by the action plan of implementation of this law and ultimately by the closure of a particular chapter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63824	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative of Shime Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63825	Thank you very much. Maybe I'll start a little bit in a strange way. On the Committee on National Minorities and Human Rights, I was the only member of that committee who voted against this report, but I must admit I did not read that report. But then why did I vote against? Listening to their colleagues present on that committee, and representatives of different national minorities, they all spoke critically about this report, so the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, and I actually fell into a trap. By listening to them when the voting act came, I had already decided that I would vote against, they were all raising their hand. In fact, since I was earlier, I decided to vote against it, then I stayed consistent. However, after reading the report carefully, not the part of those financial tables, but I looked at it too, so I decided that I had not been wrong. And I'm actually going to try to tell you something on that trail. This morning I also turned on television at 7:00, at 7.05 were the first news on that news going on like this: The Parliament begins with the work where the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities will be discussed and it is said further that 157 million kunas have been allocated for the past year, which is a million kunas more than in 2008 and then there is a finding that surprised me a little bit, and it looks like this, that it is a sign that progress has been made in the implementation of this law. So, most of my colleagues who spoke before me, over 60% of their exposures, and also Deputy Prime Minister Taker actually talked about the money. I know money matters, but I'm asking myself and you whether money is the only measure of implementation of the Constitutional Law or something that can be done without money. I'm going to say one more finding, it seems to me that actually the biggest shifts are made where money needs money, and where money is not needed are no shifts and that's what worries me. On that trail, I am thinking in the following way, in order to be as thorough as possible and perhaps to come to some more concrete conclusions, that it might be good to consider further the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities separately from the Financial Report. I would also like, given that this is about budgetary resources, that we are considering this financial side of the implementation of the constitutional law through the find of the State Audit. I don't understand why we don't have a State Audit report on the cost of 157 million and some change for last year. Because I have to admit that I've been confused, I haven't been able to figure out what the criteria are and what kind of program the money is sharing is. So let's say I've seen some municipalities and cities where, say, SDP is in power, so they get, say, 500 thousand kuna. So you have a lot of municipalities and cities, say, where the SDSS is in power, so they get a million and a half, two, two and a half. So I don't know what the criteria are. Because I'm afraid of what we could witness here the other day in Parliament, which is one tendency for individual representatives and individual political options to be entitled to the exclusiveity of representing national minorities. The other day you were there when Mr. Memedy replicated to Mr. Beus where he actually took away his right to say something about the Roma. It's a disaster, I think. And therefore, it might not be bad, when it comes to the financial side of this story, we actually get some criteria and some sort of review that are programs that are being funded and in what way. Here's how I started. I don't want to talk about money anymore. So this is somewhere in the sixth report, and the seventh year is actually about to be implemented by constitutional law. If you remember in 2003, in 2004, we had this report together. So what actually fascinates me, which is that year after year we constantly have one and the same finding in final discussions, which is to record progress in the position of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. Now, you see, I know that the space of human rights, and then the space of national minorities, is not space and are not issues that can be solved once and for all. On this issue, these issues require permanent and permanent work. But also, there are issues that are clearly regulated by law, which are not implemented. Now, that worries me. I can't accept that in certain reports from year to year about certain things we find next. Progress has been made, so there are two municipalities in line with their statutes, so we have a new show on Croatian TV. But if certain provisions in the constitutional law are accurately prescribed, then they are implemented or not implemented. I don't understand that. I mean, I understand in the beginning, when you go into a new story so a year, two, three, four, five, I can understand that things need to be stalked, that things need to be improved, but after seven years, we can't decide to say some basic or banal things that are notorious, and that's not clear to me. It is not clear to me that we still cannot introduce and implement the rights of national minorities in the representative bodies of regional self-government units. No one can convince me that there are some technical objective problems. If the government says, gentlemen, if you do not comply with your statutes in the next month, gentlemen, if you do not hold any additional elections or what you need to ensure representatives of national minorities in your councils we will disband your councils, I assure you that in a month we will solve all problems, or that this problem will be solved. And it's not really clear to me, be careful, or say use of language. Well, it's exactly where, how, in what way that right should be exercised. And so we keep finding that out of 27 or how many municipalities and cities, the unit of local self-government 7 didn't solve them with its statute. Well, be careful, but why don't we make sure that's settled. So it just seems to me that we're actually coughing, we're content with some form. That is, in a way that one or two of the municipalities actually made some kind of shift. What's also very worrying to me, which is a few of the findings I found in this report, so I'm going to do something, some of them. So when it comes to the equality of language there is said in one place that there is no interest of national minorities to lead certain procedures in that language. Therefore, national minorities are not interested in being guided in their native language, so some process, procedure, etc. Furthermore, when it comes to employment, it is said that this rate is so bad and low because representatives of national minorities do not exercise their right under Article 22 and do not plead as members of national minorities. Don't tell me that! Today when everyone's looking for a job, I think, I'd say I need a job explained I don't know how if I'm threatened by existence. Here's another one. Therefore, representatives of national minorities are not familiar with their symbols, traditions and markings of their holidays and holidays. You know what the conclusion is? Very dangerous. In fact, the national minorities themselves are guilty of not implementing this law. These thesiss expressed and presented in the evaluations, be careful not in the facts or in the facts, but in the evaluations it turns out that the national minorities themselves are guilty of not implementing the law, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Of course, that's not true for me. For me, it's just an excuse to justify things why they weren't brought to an end. When you look at this Report on the one hand, so when you look at the Ombudsman's report, then when you look at the Report on the Implementation of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, then when you look at the Report on the Implementation of the Law on Access to Information, you will see that there are no segments that we express our satisfaction with the position of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. I'll just take it. I'll just remind you of the Disclosure Act, that's the report. It says here that 35% of all discrimination happens in terms of nationality and ethics. Now, who breaks and who breaks those rights the most. Well, actually, 75% are breaking state bodies, local self-government and justice. It's a disaster. So, and the space that is, it's still very important in terms of social policy and social space, which is that it's a sphere of work. Therefore, the state is in the position that when it comes to the central state, when it comes to units of local self-government and regional administration, i.e. self-government actually solves these problems. We brought in this action plan, we got the report listed there what was realized, there were all the measures, carriers. So money, etc. Unfortunately, we don't know where it went. So what I would ask and return to, therefore, is a very dangerous thesis about giving grades in the sense that, for example, in the state administration or local self-government units, there is not one, because of what I have said enough representatives of national minorities and because of inadequate school preparation. I think it's such a superficially rash thesis. This means that in Croatia there is no, I do not know members of any national minority who does not have adequate expertise. Now, I'm going back to my conclusions. I am not satisfied with this conclusion that there is a need to intensify the activities and that the action plan needs to be intensified. I expected the conclusion that the Ministry of Administration, i.e. the Government, would do everything in 35 municipalities and cities, i.e. the unit of local self-government, that is, the county where no representative rights are provided, or where the statutes are not harmonised, that they will actually be resolved, and that sanctions will be so. So I know that the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities has a different specific weight than some other laws. But precisely because it has this specific weight, I think that after seven years, we should no longer be satisfied with recording progress and intensifying measures, but that we should concentrate on precisely specific issues, specific tasks in terms of what should be done and what might be done. Here I have listed some five or six things that I can get rid of tomorrow. Now you see, it is also said in the conclusion that progress has been recorded thanks to the political will shown by the political will of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Now, I only interpret it like this. The government's political will is defined only in 157 million kunas, but it's not defined in something that doesn't even cost a beaten kuna. Now, that's not clear to me anymore. How someone defines his will through money and does not define his will through concrete political decisions by having specific competences. So, I wouldn't say anything else about public media, etc. I see my time is running out. So, we will not formulate it in the form of a conclusion, but I think it would be good to separate the important issues of achieving the rights of national minorities in terms of human rights, in terms of those fundamental rights from that of money and to consider it differently, and to get a review of the criteria or programmes in the manner in which the Constitutional Law is financed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63826	Thank you. We have two corrections, Mrs. Zdenka Cuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63827	I would like to correct my colleague Lucin in this 157 million segment, but first of all, I have to say that I agree in that part that minority rights should not be monitored through the asset segment, but above all those real rights and which often do not depend on finance. When it comes to 157 million, it's a collection by the ministries that the ministries are subject to audit every year we have a review report, and I'm going to say only in which parts they are. These are all the funds we have through certain reports. When it comes to the Ministry of Science, education there are textbooks, there are preschool programmes and all that concerns the national minority of Roma. When it comes to the Ministry of Culture, there is the protection of cultural monuments, the central library of minorities where there are also great funds, but I will also agree that it is not 157 million, that it is much less because we already have at the Fund for the Development of pluralism, or what the Council for Electronic Media has given, seen that it is not a million 900, but it is significantly less. So the funds are questionable, but this is a collection of all ministries that are indeed subject to review, including a Council for National Minorities, which is subject to review as part of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63828	Another correction, Mrs. Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63829	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I have to correct the inaccuracies of fellow Lucin that it is not true what is stated in this report that members of national minorities sometimes do not want to call for their minority rights. We have been discussing this issue with the European Commission since we have been in contact with the European Commission, and for all such meetings it has now become a criterion in Chapter 23, and for all such meetings we have had to prepare ourselves very closely and explore what is happening. I must tell you that colleagues working in court, for example. The system has always been told that there are extremely many, say when the choice of judges, judges who do not want to appeal to their minority rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63830	Thank you. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63831	I refer to Article 209. I don't know why you're correcting me, I was talking about what's in the report, and I'm saying it's unacceptable for me. And as long as we accept it, we won't make a more significant step forward. You may agree with the dear God, but there is no progress if we are content with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63832	No injured Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Pejcinovic corrected correctly. I'd like to inform you that it was just 10 and 48 that it was time to report a ten-minute hearing. The vice president of the government, Mr. Free Taker, came forward. Here you go. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a need to clarify perhaps this part of the report, which is being warned by the distinguished representative Lucin, and responded to by the distinguished representative Mrs. Pejcinovic. As we understand things, if you want me to understand things for difficulties in some segments of the implementation of this law, the responsibility or work that is ahead is actually on two sides, no doubt on the side of the government and conditionally stated, but conditionally, I am asking you on the side of national minorities who have the right to apply the constitutional law, but in order to benefit from those rights they have to apply for some time, because they have no obligation to exercise these rights, and no one can apply for them or force them to do so. Why do I say that their obligation is conditional? Because members of minorities, or some of them, and some of them, are not supposed to convince us of such, for various reasons socio-economic and other reasons, that they can hardly do it as collectives, they cannot do it without the help of the authorities. That's why I say parole. And maybe that should have been shown further, you should have educated them in it, if you want and freed them and... , and equip financial, spatial, and certainly, to create conditions, perhaps before the political and atmosphere of free and complete expression of these needs beyond what the norm itself allows and regulations. [[You don't understand.]] In that sense, I say conditionally, it's really not even on our mind to take responsibility and share responsibility, much less just to attribute it to minorities. So I pray that it is understood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63835	To me, it's an incorrect assumption that minorities are responsible for anything. I think in any society, any community is always the majority responsible, and for the position of minorities. The other thing is, you've made everything nice, but I can add one more thing, maybe people are afraid, and if people are afraid, it means we don't exactly enforce constitutional law. I didn't say it on purpose at the pay phone, and since it was potent on two occasions, I needed to say it now. Because if there's fear, then the situation is a little more complicated than it looks.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63836	Thank you. Let's move on. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63837	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. So clearly, speaking of this 2009 report, at least in that financial segment, it may also have to refer to the 2008 data. Why 2008? So to compare expenditures or better said receipts for 2009. And here we see that these amounts at this recession time, which has been gratefully increased by one point by some percent, have just mentioned 157 million kunas compared to 155.9 million kunas in 2008. As clearly as Mrs Chuhnil said when we talk about these 157 or 155 million kunas for 2008 that these are aggregated data means in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2000, etc. The Council for National Minorities provides funds in associations, institutions of €39.9 million, and then within the framework of the implementation of the National Programme for Roma and the action plan of the decade for Roma inclusion 2005-2015. 17.3 million kuna, then via the Commission for Relations with the religious communities in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia also around 14.2 million kuna, for the financing of the councils of representatives of national minorities 24.8 million kunas etc., etc. The second thing I want to say is that minority issues in Croatia, so it is legitimately solved, is I dare say it in an appropriate way. Here's what we all know members of the national minorities directly select their 8 MPs in this House, there we can certainly do well, I mean that's for sure I would say one progress perhaps in relation to some countries in our environment. But, as it should be pointed out, this year the new Constitution also prescribed the possibility, I will call it a double voting right, avoiding segregation both by national minorities, but also by punishing those political options and parties most consistently taking care of minority members. It is certain that this positive discrimination as a single civilizational liquid should be welcomed. Members of the national minority, we see, are also participating in the executive government. They're part of the ruling coalition. The truth is, I'd rather they come out of that ruling coalition than they are there, and here we have Mr. Taker who is vice president, means Government, and no one should say that members of the national minorities do not have a certain potential for influence and individual decisions that are of vital interest both to those minorities and to the country as a whole. On the other hand, because of the war, so I'm going to say aside from Mr. Stanimirovic's inappropriate statement who started the war in Vukovar, we know who destroyed Vukovar to the ground, and I think he knows it too, it's clear to every well-intentioned, but regardless of what the citizens of Croatia's nationality went through in those areas should also stress the citizens of Croatian-Serbian nationality to give back, guarantee absolutely their property, guarantee these people a tenant right. There must be no discrimination in employment. Where it's clearly collapsed, I don't know after some storm operations, for example. It should also be built or raised again, restored. Of course the Storm was 100% legitimate and there's no doubt about it. The second thing I want to say is that, in the context of Mr Tadic's arrival in Croatia today, I believe that the Republic of Croatia and the genocide suit could be reconsidered. There is no doubt that Croatia was a victim of aggression, there is no doubt that a terrible crime has been committed against Vukovar, but if Sarajevo has failed around Srebrenica to prove genocide hardly Croatia. So let's withdraw as a gesture of one new goodness, a new friendship and that lawsuit. Here's what President Josipovic's been talking about lately if I do, as far as I'm following him. The second thing I want is to also look back at the equal use of language and letters of national minorities. But before that, I agree absolutely, that Croatia must care and defend the interests of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and must clearly take advantage of the influence of other governments in order to improve the situation. For or regarding bilateral co-operation by the Republic of Croatia on an annual basis, it provides a little over 200 thousand euros, not counting normal donations that go towards BiH where the Croatian people are a constituent people, for example. According to Austria, for citizens of Croatians, there are 25 thousand euros, according to Italy whether Molisse or elsewhere, but there is a figure of nearly 20,000 euros, Hungary 16, Macedonia 18, Slovenia 23, Serbia 56 thousand. Total that means somewhere around 200 grand. When we talk about the equal use of language and letter if that bilingualism, or equality, has come to life, then I think it's in Istria. However, there has been a problem with the Italian school in Novigrad, and I expect the Italian community's representative, Mr Furio, to say the same. Maybe I don't know all the details, I'm sure I have a better idea about that, but as I was informed after the principal left that Italian school, two applications arrived. One application by professor of Croatian nationality, meaning Croatian gender, second application by professor of Italian gender or Italian nationality. If a person meets the requirements and wants a collective for me, it would be no more normal for the principal to do so, I clearly said if he meets the requirements, if he accepts this collective, it means nothing more normal, and if that council of local self-government or what it's called, the School Council, accepts, it would be no more normal for the school director to be a citizen of the Republic of Italy's nationality. But where do the gentlemen get into trouble? As always in Croatia when politics starts to interfere. Well, that's where we get to HDZ. And then we have a situation where individuals who are otherwise members of police forces in Istria, who, in my court, should not be politically declared, let alone represent any political collectiveity, simply perform with only their known positions. It is easy for them to come from these positions, deal with criminal charges to the State's Attorney's office, call on presses, party clears, the state's attorney calls for informative talks of the school's staff. Furio wrote somewhere or said it happened in Istria when it came to his community not since '54. It even seems to me that the mayor of the city of Novigrad has received such an invitation to report to the state's attorney and then these people are treated, professors in these schools, mayors, council members, etc., as criminals, and clearly nowhere does the gentlemen lead. It's not good for such cases in one tolerated environment to create cases, problems. And finally, if we wanted all this time by now, as Furio told me, she was a professor of Croatian nationality at the head of that school. Of course, that's not in the report, that's perhaps more detail for the attorney general. It's an event that happened in 2010 so let's see if that detail will be found in the report for next year. I will once again say, say, when we talk about legislation, minority relations from our law, so that legal ideal I would say is almost ideally complex, the practice of this example I describe can often be different. However, it is certainly one thing that unlike an earlier time today, there is far more unity, far more respect for members of various nationalities living in certain areas. Croatia is certain and should say a lot of things when it comes to restoration. The second thing is why something was collapsing there by some actions, operations, why monuments from the one in Serbs, to the monument of Nikola Tesla in Gospić, etc., it is a different story, but it is still starting to be renewed today, and there must be no distinction about whose property it is, because it is actually the property of the Republic of Croatia owned or owned by any Croatian citizens, whether Serbian nationality. Here I will mention a standard of what it looks like in the county of Istria, just find it, and then say, for example, the municipality of Brtonigla is guaranteed bilingualism for printing the text of the seal, stamps of the same size of the letter, writing signboards, printing the headers of acts, publishing official notices and calling the representative executive body, as well as the material for sessions, representative executive body, means the equal official use of the Italian language in the regulation of administrative bodies also refers to forms and calls and certificates and solutions and now that I do not read all of this further. It is clear that gentlemen all of this costs, well, when it comes to Istria, not only is the state and the county involved, but also the neighbouring country, and not with little resources, I mean Italy, but God forbid today to abolish these small municipalities that have come to life because they have reached one civilization standard and when it comes to minority issues, when it comes to economics, socials, communal standards, and so I don't think it would be a good idea to think about eliminating those units of local self-government. Minorities have always been, will always be... to the neighbours it is actually true, what is far more important to us that minorities are part of the democratic legitimacy of the Republic of Croatia and therefore what is minimally possible to do simply express respect for all who act on this towards all communities operating in these areas. All in all, what to say. We should normally support this report we have here some problems I say and in Istria, the problem of Roma is more than serious, not only in Istria but also in the County of Međimurje, I do not see personally why it exists, why there is no more hearing on one side and on the other. The Roma moved to Istria during the University of 1987 but in Vodnjan and Pula, there are already three or four generations as it is seen, those 23 and more years, and so much for their problems should be understood, hearing sensitivity and having their problems solved. On the other hand, they must respect customs, laws, and I thank in advance for the help of Mr. Taker when it comes to their problems in Istria County. All in all, the IDS Club has no reason not to support the activities of these gentlemen who are working on the implementation of constitutional law and I think that year by year we are recording a growing civilizational step on this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63838	Thank you very much. HDSSB club Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63839	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen from the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I didn't mean to correct Mr. Cain's incorrect claim, but since he spoke before me, he distracted me from the concept of my debate, so I'll say that he mentions the collapsed buildings, churches, etc., in areas where they lived or live and today national minorities, and somehow he doesn't mention or shut down thousands of objects that were torn down where the majority of the Croatian population was, so when we take the number of objects that were destroyed there and the number of inhabitants, then we see that there's a much worse situation where we talk about the majority people in the Republic of Croatia. The fact that Mr Cain was calm today in his speech is also one of the arguments that this very matter is perfectly solved in the Republic of Croatia and, as I said, the legislation is excellent, and one of the most advanced in all of Europe if not in the world. YES, I would almost say it when it comes to national minorities, Croatia is more European than Europeans. So in the legislation, it's so settled that it really doesn't exist anywhere. The second thing is that the Constitution and the Constitutional Law have divided the citizens of Croatia into 4 categories, and today we are discussing two categories, and this is about national minorities divided by the Constitution and by the Constitutional Law, so the highest acts of the Republic of Croatia in two categories. One category is national minorities that have below 1.5% of the population in the total population of the Republic, who have a double right to vote, so on that so-called. positive discrimination where they vote for parties at national level, or regional parties, and then vote for their representative of their national minority directly. The second category has to be said openly because that was also the word in the parliament, so those national minorities that have over 1.5%, it refers exclusively to Serbs, who agreed with the HDZ to have at least three of their representatives, losing their right to so-called. positive discrimination, agreedly, not losing but agreeing with HDZ and the government are those in a coalition with ruling parties, which is HDZ, HSS, once was HSLS and I don't know who, the whole column. So today we're discussing these kinds of citizens. We should not discuss those other two types of citizens, so they are citizens of Croatia, Croatian nationality, majority people and citizens outside the Republic of Croatia, so Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and they are not the subject of today's debate. I said four categories. Eh, exclusivity is mentioned here in interpreting the rights of national minorities. And indeed, when we look at this report then it is seen that this very exclusiveity exists that it is also expressed through financial reports, that it is expressed through the donations of the Republic of Croatia, I would say taxpayers, in the global sense that for 2009 it is a 157 round or cca million kuna, and for 2008 it was 156 so there is a praise mark, here we increased by a million kuna. However, what is not written in this material is much more difficult. In fact, when you look at what all the Republic of Croatia has done and also for national minorities, and also for certain national minorities, then the item we are talking about for all the national fewer that 157 million kuna is much, much larger. The Republic of Croatia, the budget of the Republic of Croatia costs much more than what I would have said almost paradoxically, which is that the Republic of Croatia is somewhat valued and the Croatian Government, which is almost praying, is looking through UNHCR and I do not know what kind of institutions in the Republic of Serbia, people who will return to the Republic of Croatia and that is why Croatia will give them a house etc. How much money is invested in these apartments, return of apartments, houses, etc. billions of kunas. There's no word on this report. It's not the subject of this report. Furthermore, no one mentions that Croatia has received, to say concretely, a key to the hand is done, assigned 8 thousand 300 apartments or houses to former tenants of the tenant rights with a wave to members of the aggressor army who have torn down and killed Croatia. Croatia has received 19,000 34 requests from former aggressor soldiers that years of war against Croatia be recognised as a working internship or issued a pension decision based on the Convalidation Regulation. So far 53% of such demands have been resolved. So now count on how much money it is, by means of such a Convalidation rule. Therefore, it is much larger amounts and much larger items and the assignment of houses, apartments, the key to the hands, restored built, as well as the conqualification and the working internship that was achieved in some parastate that expelled tens and hundreds of thousands of Croats and killed a thousand Croatian civilians. It's their reward. Gentlemen, it's their reward. That makes Croatia feel like I'm going to say it on a voluntary basis without any problems. Tax bonds will pay for it. So those who were destroyed will pay those who destroyed them to build them houses, give them apartments, and work, and not just work, but pensions and so forth. Well, that's sad. Under the pressure of the so-called. international communities, under the pressure of survival in the government of the Republic of Croatia coalition with the SDSS etc. It costs money, gentlemen. It's money, it's billions of kuna. Not as many as 157 million kuna as this report says. And if I have to say on this point, so when it comes to the pressure of the international community, the European Court of Human Rights in some disputes ruled out in favour of the Republic of Croatia, but regardless of the European Court of Human Rights in the internal agreement between the ruling HDZ and the SDSS, they handle it without a problem, by voting machinery of the HDZ that raises their hands for such regulations, such laws, etc. He complains to the world public that minority rights are not fully respected in Croatia. So what do you want? Well, Croatia has been around for 20 years. I know that there are, I don't care about the occurrences of discrimination with state bodies, with public authorities, etc. It's easily correct and evidenceable because there are papers. I am much more concerned about the relationship between individuals of different nationalities and discrimination in this regard. And it's being built up. The Croatian state has been in existence for 20 years and cannot correct all wrong Drinas according to the highest European and world standards for national minorities in 20 years. He just can't. A country that came out of the war, a country that is 47 billion in external debt, but the same ones that condition such high amounts of money for their rights. Do they think well of their country, if they even consider it their own. Well, wait, gentlemen, that's not the way it is. But when there's money, there's crime. When there's money, there's corruption. And there was a lot of money going around here. And then there are applications to the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia in Zagreb where representatives of the same national minority accuse representatives or say the leaders of the Serbian National Council for Crime and Corruption. For the evasion of 2 million and 100 thousand kunas delivered in 2008 to the Serbian National Council. And they're named here. I'm not going to deliberately name the people who are in the lead. But there is a report to the county state's attorney's office that didn't solve it until today, and I don't know if it took into consideration, the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, that kind of application. I suppose it must not, I suppose, be said, in accordance with what my colleague Buric said, that it is actually a branch office, the state attorney's office of the Bank Courts, the government in which the Deputy Prime Minister from this national minority, or the Serbian National Council, is involved, which is being accused here, is not actually being accused but is applying for corruption and crime. Thank God, we in Slavonski Brod and in our Slavonia care to say and try as little discrimination as possible against national minorities, to live with them next to each other, and to know that it is difficult for everyone. And to those who belong to the majority people, as well as to those who belong to the national minority, it is equally difficult because, again, I have to quote my Buric, said Slavonia to the 13th pig, or has other names, pastor or orphans who are here and in this budget of the Republic of Croatia that you voted on the same day, so also national minorities in, I can speak for Brod-Posavia County, Vukovar-Srijemska, Požeko-Slavonska. And I'm also saying, we're all together in the same mud, same poverty, so I guess our relations are so good there, national minorities and the majority people. Mr. Cain spoke of the spending of these 157 million kunas, so he told associations and institutions 40 million kunas, the Roma community and their expressed needs 17 million kunas, the religious community of national minorities 14 million kunas, the Council of National Minorities 14 million kunas, and then from these funds there are the newspapers that say on the cover they both fell. Or perhaps there is also a funding conference where Mr. Stanimirovic talks about who first started a war that would change history, which would change the winner in this Homeland War, and we know that on November 18th in front of the Vukovar hospital in uniform, that uniform we know about, so not to tell the aggressor, finally fell the last Ustasha fortress. And these are the same national minorities, or members of the council of those national minorities that we finance, which are Croatian citizens, taxpayers, from Molunt to Ilok. That's why, gentlemen, the HDSSB club won't raise a hand for this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63840	Thank you. Three corrections. First, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63841	First of all, it's a lie, and I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that I, Mr. Representative, did not mention one barbaric, anti-civilization, savage, inhuman savagery and the destruction of Vukovar and the suffering itself of the defender and the people of Vukovar. It's a lie that I didn't dare, but I dared Stanimirovic's statement, which is one harsh forgery. However, I also consider it an anti-civilisation demolition of more than 20,000, making it clear that family buildings in the Storm should be restored with the aim of returning Croatian citizens to Serbian nationality. It is property, Mr. Representative, owned by the Republic of Croatia. Of course I don't put a sign of equality between what happened in Vukovar and what happened in the Storm. In the reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia, which no one says, it invested more than 5 billion euros, nearly 40 billion kuna. It's huge money, but I don't accept that I didn't mention in my act the barbaric, savage destruction of Vukovar. And I also said that there...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63842	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63843	For genocide, it is necessary to examine for the purpose of co-existence, progress and good neighbourly relations because there will be no happiness if one or another people sees one another as genocide.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63844	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. In what?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63845	Mr. Vice President. I think you'd...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63846	In what, in what...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63847	Article 209 of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Cain actually lied.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63848	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63849	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63850	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63851	He just mentions Vukovar, and where's...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63852	No, it's not. You've hurt the Rules of Procedure. ... Well, you can't, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure to correct the second point of view and opinions. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63853	And Thompson discriminates against him too. He discriminates against Thompson, a member of the majority people. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63854	There are no majority and minority nations, there are people and there are national minorities and ethnic groups. But there is no majority or minority. And the second correction, Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63855	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Boro has established more important relationships than money. I'll agree to that, but his explanation is wrong. He said thousands of people are looking for apartments and thousands of people are asking for recognition of work. The mistake is that people are looking for it because they also had apartments because they were doing it. According to his interpretation, they should not get it not because of the real content of that request but because they are and that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63856	And the third correction, Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63857	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, unfortunately, I'm not going to correct the incorrect allegations on the subject that my colleague was supposed to be talking about because he wasn't talking about it at all, but he's using the stage and this Parliament for something else. So I'm correcting an incorrect quote exactly what he said about Slavonia being cut off. I am correcting and saying it is not suspended and do not take care of Požega-Slavon County because you are not taking care of Brod-Posavina either. And let me just say that a week or two ago, only from the Croatian waters of Slavonia, over 300 million kuna, near 400 million kuna, not for floods, but for new projects. But I repeat again, don't take care of others because you're not taking the lead in your county either. Therefore, do not take care of Požega-Slavonska. A fellow representative and I are here to run and fully implement the programs we have and we are not cut out for the kuna either. And if you haven't made the projects, then you're very cut off because you don't know how to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63858	SDSS representative club, Mr. Representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63859	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State. I will refer to this report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the expenditure on funds secured in the 2009 budget. The report is in some kind of reporting statistical sense correct, large. We think he's covering all the segments that he's supposed to be in some kind of cross-section to cover and we even think that even in that section relating to the National Minority Council Report, there's something too big. Not something but rather excessive, and it could in some ways be synthesized into a shorter core account. Well, good. Anyway, the way he is, he's acceptable to the SDSS club. And when I say that, then it's usually real, though. I will try to analyze here through certain situations on the ground and some indicators on the ground will try to analyze all these, or certain chapters that we think are interesting for analysis. In any case, we will not be guided by any motifs here or in front of the International Community as my predecessor said, but simply on the basis of something that is an exact thing, so that some indicators on the ground say what implementation of this Law is not exactly what this Report says. The essential thing is I think it's here next. To measure the amount of national minorities' right to the money invested, and that year, it's the archin's fault. So it's not a good measure to measure these rights. We here could show slightly smaller amounts or slightly larger amounts depending on some activities, depending on budget options, on seeing things, on plans within ministries etc. etc. However, the real measure for the success of the implementation in the life of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is the satisfaction of those national minorities to whom this Constitutional Law as a holy book in the Republic of Croatia applies. And we can't say we're completely satisfied. In some situations, in some cases we will even say that we are dissatisfied. The fact is, and these are the predecessors before me, and I agree with the fact that there is an extremely high-quality legislative framework, so the legislative framework, so the legislation is adapted to what is in the future in the European Union waiting for us. So, we have a quality constitutional law, we have even, we have a timely and passed 2008 quality action plan for the implementation of the Constitutional Law. We have in these laws institutes that in one modern way regulate segments of life and the needs of national minorities. However, there is a gap, and there is a discrepancy between what we have prescribed, what we have as a legislative body and as a policy wanted and what is happening on the ground in the implementation of all these standards, all of these institutes. Thus, in the category of official and public use of language and letter of national minorities, we can conclude that after almost seven years of the entry into force of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, not all units of local and regional self-government have fulfilled their obligations to regulate equal official bilingualism in their territory, so we have the use of minority language and letters to be arranged in 27 units of local self-government in which members of national minorities make up more than one third of the total population. So that's something that's legal. 7 of them have not yet done so, after seven years of implementation of the Constitutional Law and we have no illusion that they will soon do so. In the field of education and education, we have an excellent model, A, B and C model of education of national minorities. We don't have any objections in that part. We think that the state has made a great effort, invested great resources to institutionalise these models and implement in life and in practice and through personnel and through material resources and through textbooks, minority textbooks. So that segment is fine. However, what we are trying to do persistently and what we believe is not yet arranged, and what we point to is the fact that a large number of primary schools in Serbian have not even received legal registration. So we have the fact that we have schools by the A model of education that are still not registered that way. The question is then the regularity of the documents, the final documents they issue at the end of school. Here I'm just going to say for a moment that the right to preserve faith is one segment that is not talked about much. However, the fact is that there was a need for certain large funds or larger funds to be invested in renovations, in restoration of certain sacral objects. With certain dynamics, we can be satisfied. However, we cannot be satisfied with the fact that the process of returning significant church property has not yet been completed. Here I am talking about the church property of the Serbian Orthodox Church and the Jewish church community. Therefore, it is a formal-legal issue, and even a political issue in which it would be worth it because of some credibility and correct relations as soon as possible. Access and the right to electronic media are very much talked about in public. The situation with programmes on national minorities including the production and broadcasting of emissions in minority language, especially electronic media with national concessions, such as HRT and HR, has not changed compared to the last report we talked about, there are still only a few shows such as the Prism on HTV and Agora on Croatian Radio, which, with their concept and especially minutes, cannot meet the need for information in the languages of national minorities. It is also an additional problem in this section of information that, with the concept of production of specific minority emissions, certain segments of Croatian broadcasting programmes such as information, cultural, documentary programmes, do not contain enough or do not contain cultural topics from the lives of minority communities. I'll take a special look at the example here. The show, which I think is very much seen and which is an important show to promote the cultural heritage of the Republic of Croatia, which is a show we all love to watch, but it is unacceptable that in the 100th, or whatever, I think this spring was the 100th show Nice Ours, no Serbian cultural artistic society participated. It is not possible that when it comes to the town of Beli Manastir and shoots the show Lekomo, there is no room for 10 minutes for the Serbian cultural and artistic society Jovan Ladic from Beli Manastir. Not because it is, but because it is a society that has a 50-year tradition in the continuity of existence, because it is the most numerous cultural art society in the Beli Manastir, and because, besides the Croatian cultural arts societies, there are still some minority artistic societies involved, and this thing and this practice is clearly repeated, because in the later shows, even though we pointed out, we have not seen any Serbian cultural artistic society. It is particularly important for members of the national minorities, the fact of employment, a clear problem with the majority people, and is particularly dimensional and sensitively sensitive to minority peoples, minority communities. So here we are talking about the problem of employment in so-called representation in the bodies of the state administration and the judiciary, and then here we can conclude that according to the data we received in the report, the trend in reducing the employment of members of national minorities in the judiciary, which we think is one thing that needs to be considered. Why? Because it is a warning thing, because the fact is that where, where a working relationship ends, a member of a national minority in its place is not receiving a highly educated figure from the same national minority, and therefore we have a decline trend. What is particularly alarming to us is the fact that it is very difficult for young people, educated people in the judiciary to do so. Training internship, as a basic element and prerequisite for further professional advancement and engagement. It is the same, it is a similar situation in the Ministry of the Interior, and we can say that in the eastern part of the Republic of Croatia, representation of members of the Serb community in these affairs is satisfactory, but on the contrary we also have one sub-representation in other parts of Croatia such as Lika, Western Slavonia, etc., which we think is the thing to discuss. In particular, it's a difficult fact here that young people who run for Home Office jobs come under the hit of the so-called. The categories of unworthyness, therefore, is something that is prescribed in our law, and that is one category that should be discussed, because it is often a situation that because of the unworthyness of grandfather grandson cannot get a job at the Ministry of the Interior, although it meets psychophysical and all other criteria. We also think that the disproportionate development of regions, in particular the areas of return to war affected areas, etc., they are still significantly lagging behind in economic development, and this particularly involves members of national minorities in economic life, and this makes it a very big problem for people on the ground, i.e. the fact and existence itself. The housing programme that was discussed here is something that is very important for society, as important for society as it is for members of national minorities, especially the Serb national minority, as the largest consumer of the minority consumption of this problem, although I must say that in the parameters we talked about here, the financial parameters, in the natural indicators how many units were built in the rebuilding system, on the return of apartments, etc., 25% are users of the Serbian national minority. So it is important for the public to say 25% of the total fund in Chapter 23 are users of the Serbian national minority. I'm also going to say just a little bit here, the Council of National Minorities that have been processed very broadly, have a problem right now with unequal funding. So what we need to regulate by the following laws that are now, which will be before us, is the fact that a model of the uniform funding of the Council of National Minorities must be prescribed, so the form of how this will be done, because we have the fact that some local self-governments are over-rewarding certain councils, while other municipalities are rewarding them, or not co-financed. The reasons for this, I will not talk here, about this would be elaborated if there were more time, but the fact that there is an unequal system of funding of the Council of National Minorities, and at the municipal level, or at the county level, and I think that's the thing that we need to settle, because there are a lot of things in the Council of National Minorities' segment, a lot of things are working out, coming up, next year we are ahead of the electoral procedure, so the election of the Council of National Minorities follows next year and I think that the financing segment should be settled until the end in order and in this matter we are positively closing. So we all think that this report as it is to us here presented in the indicators that are here we can accept and the SDSS will accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63860	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63861	I would correct the incorrect allegations of a respected representative, Mr. Horvat, when he said he couldn't measure everything just by the amount of money. It can be measured by the amount of money, and it must also be taken into account, especially if the fact is that the Republic of Croatia has singled out a billion kuna for the purchase of apartments and houses for members of the Serbian national community and for the care of them only during 2008 and another billion kuna during 2009. And it must be taken care of, Mr Horvat, I don't know why everyone is silent about it, and so much dust and noise rises about 30 million kunas a year to help the Croats in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63862	And another correction, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63863	Col. Horvat spoke of the downfall of the number of employees, so it is likely that members of the Serb national minority are thinking. However, I would correct the allegations and say that the drop in employment is total in the Republic of Croatia, and I guess it is then members of the Serb national minority. However, something else concerns me, Mr. Horvat, and there is no Mr. Cain here to confirm that, for employment, you were just talking about the police in Istria, in all of Istria, in Istria County, asking for knowledge of Italian. Does the Croatian public know that knowledge of Italian language is needed for employment in the Ministry of Interior in Istria? If anyone knows English or don't give God French, he doesn't have the right to run. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63864	Okay, this isn't a correction anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63865	Furthermore,
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63866	Comrade Grubisic, there is no further. This is no longer a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63867	It's a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63868	No, because that's not what Mr. Horvat was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63869	He also talked about the fact that in state bodies, in administrations, etc., there is also... But I'm not into counting blood cells, but that's not true. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63870	It's not a correction. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63871	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The debate on the exercise of the rights of national minorities should start from a premise that is indisputable. The majority is always responsible for minority rights. The minority cannot in itself exercise those rights. Why? Because it's a minority. Every mistake in this, every flaw in this goes to the soul of the majority. In this respect, I would not agree with the Deputy Prime Minister who says that some rights could not be exercised because members of the national minority do not wish to be declared members of the national minority, so I cannot even exercise my rights to represent myself in the judiciary, the police and I do not know how. If they do not wish to plead as members of their national minority, either they have lost their national consciousness or they are afraid. This first is unlikely, this second remains as a conclusion. And what are they afraid of and who are they afraid of? Most of them. The majority is therefore also responsible for this perhaps irrational and perhaps totally unjust fear. But then you should also work on destroying, undoing that fear. The initial basis for the assessment of the situation should also be the Report of Discrimination submitted by the Ombudsman here a few days ago and discussed. And those who receive knowledge and do not accept. The report is full of examples of discrimination against members of national minorities, especially Serbs, and then the Roma national minority. Such a condition must concern us all. And we must all work on repairing that condition. I was already talking about the dangers of understanding this problem in such a way that there are representatives of individual national groups who are the only ones responsible or who have the exclusive right to protect their national minority. No, they're not. First, I can't take away the right for us others, and second by nature things because we're most of us belong. And while the rights and one Roma in Croatia are at stake, I must be ashamed, not Memedi. If that's how we approach the problem, then there's a chance we can solve it. If we approach this differently, it'll drag on for years as it's pulling on, because here's seven years of law enforcement, and we've got other municipalities that haven't aligned their statutes. And how long will it take? 70 years to comply with the statutes? Most, the political majority is responsible for this discrepancy. So let's make laws, the state has power. Let's get them to comply with the statutes after 7 years because we'll read again next year that some municipalities haven't aligned the statutes. And nothing to anyone. We're finding a little progress because two of them have been harmonized since last year. That's not a solution, that's not a good way to go. Now a little bit about funding. The budget yesterday adopted a million-and-a-half kuna for 2011 envisions something called the University of Vukovar Community. There's no such thing as a legal person. When the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities was discussed, this topic caused a storm here. I'm not going to talk about the political aspect, whether it creates it, whether it's the path to rebuilding the Krajina, I'm going to talk about something else because I think it's impossible to rebuild the Krajina so I don't think that's the way and I don't think it's a danger. I don't think that's a danger. I don't even think that's intention, not hidden or open. But I see danger in something else. In a political trade for money. Is this a million and a half kuna for 2011 and a million and a half kuna foreseen in the 2012 projection, so for 2013, what was a total of 4.5 million kuna, was that the price of the hand to vote yesterday's budget? If it takes a million-and-a-half kuna for something that's not even a legal person for the Vukovar Community, then I wonder if only in Vukovar live members of the Serb national minority? What about those in Krnjak, what about those in Lika, what about those in Gorski Kotar, they do not belong to that community of Vukovar. Therefore, when it comes to financing, I, as you can see, am in order to protect minority rights, to cost something, to spend money on it, but not as a result of political trade between the coalition's party and the majority party in the coalition. That doesn't. That's not the point, that's not the point. A little more about the money. It says a member of the HDSSB's representative that billions have been spent, that this 157 million is not the right amount because billions have been spent on rebuilding the houses of members of the Serb minority. No, I don't. They were spent on rebuilding the destroyed houses. In a war torn apart and worse after the war. The house that was burned after the storm for no reason. Although someone would have to bear the blame for that, if someone had to file an account, they would have to account for those who did it for no reason. There was no more justification for that arson, no more. And of course they had to rebuild that house, it was someone's property. And they do not restore houses to members of the Serb national minority, but they are rebuilding burned and mined houses. Only if you think someone who's so burned down doesn't need to rebuild their property. One, time is running out, one suggestion. Why don't cultural co-operation be financed more, Vice President Shakespeare can be my witness, he's a regular theatre visitor. When any theatre comes to Zagreb from a country where there is a Croatian minority, the theatre is a lot, not only come theatre people, there come members of the national minority, they want to see a play in their own language, they want to know what they are doing in the country with which they are connected. The directors of the theatre are founders of their cities, they do not have in their items, in their budgets scheduled to host, they do not, they produce plays there for cities and municipalities where they remain. So why don't we become an obligation of the Council of National Minorities or of the Ministry of Culture to finance these hostings, so if we gave in a million-and-a-half kuna instead of a council of municipalities, then we could say that we have fulfilled our mission, in the most well-meaning way. But I invite you to discuss a little with cultural workers, theatre people, I don't know what the state of the book in publishing is, but at least to help this because there's no money for it. There is a will, but that will cannot be achieved, because it is simply no one's budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63872	Thank you. Two corrections, four replicas. First correction, Ms. Representative Gyurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63873	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm under the impression of a human rights fighter flying for 7 kuna in Brijuni, and I guess he didn't invite any Roma children or any other national minority child to provide him with that 7 kuna holiday, so to teach him a little culture, there's no more fear in this country, Mr. Stazic. There's no fear when we were living and looking for jobs, so if we weren't in the SKD then we didn't get it and from 2000 to 2003 at the SDP, and I personally had it, so I'll tell you that. So there is no fear and thank God that this country has high standards, excellent laws, and that people who are a national minority in this House speak positively about this, and you know it. Do something, take the child with you for a summer vacation for 7 kuna, you'll do a great thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63874	Second Amendment, Mr. Representative Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63875	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would correct Mr. Szazic's incorrect allegations when he says that the financing of the joint council is a political trade for money. That's where I'd say a few things. First, in the last councils, we are polleming around the common council of municipalities and many are polymizing without having almost any real knowledge about it, but I'm not going to say about it now. The financing of the Joint Council is an obligation made by the Assembly in the adoption of amendments to the Constitutional Law to itself, the Assembly's conclusion exclusively states that the financing and organisation of the Joint Council of the municipalities should be regulated. It's an exclusive conclusion that we voted for here, or at least most. In addition, it is an obligation entered in the founding act when the Joint Council is established and signed by the then Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Matesha. So, the obligation that the Joint Council will get legal subjectivity and we are now trying to do so. And nothing is done under the grain, and nothing is done by what is not legal and what is not normal, and don't laminate over anything that has nothing to do with anything, don't contaminate any Krajina, don't insult those people out there who are doing their job fairly, who are now exactly what you said, applied several programs, and these funds will spend exactly what you just said.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63876	Thank you, Mr. Horvat, please. We have these days marked the 11th, 15th anniversary of the Erdut Agreement with the authority of the President of the Republic, the American, current and former ambassador, the Prime Minister, the Ministers, all actors of the Croatian political scene as an event that marked the beginning of the peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Podunovre and the beginning of peace and stabilisation of the territory of Croatia. In the Erdut Agreement in a letter of intent and on the basis of these international documents, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established in 97 a joint Council of municipalities with legal personality status and financed it throughout 1997 to today. So this whole thing, and it has to be said once, this whole story that comes down to the fact that it's a para-state body, that it's a poshtectonic, shows one deep misunderstanding, ignorance, and ignorance of the whole situation. People give once don't use one such argument that has nothing to do with reality, with life. My colleague Buric, I was obliged to give this one explanation about this event, about this joint council of municipalities, because as chairman, I am obliged to give a view that there is a wider debate here again and that this is a political trade issue, because it is funded and it gives the status of a joint council of municipalities that has been doing so since 1997. Here you go. Will you correct my false claim?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63877	Yeah. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I'll quote to you the words of the president, correcting your incorrect quote of what you said about the status of the joint council of the Vukovar Municipality. On November 12th of this year, when the Erdut Agreement was marked, among other things Mr Dragan Primorac, the president of the joint council of the municipality, and I quote his words, is literally like this: "The president of the joint council reminded the institution of the unresolved statute, and expressed hope that the coalition government, including representatives of the Serb community, will finally be able to solve the problem." This is from the website of a larger municipality, therefore it is not true that the common council has the right of legal persons and is still not and it is not true that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has regularly funded them as a legal person, because in 2010 you do not have the funding items of the Joint Council of the University of Vukovar. The first funding starts in 2011 and is projected for 2012 and 2013 with a million and a half kuna each year. So much for the accuracy of your quote, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63878	Yeah. I'm afraid you're wrong. It was funded in various forms from the state budget, through different ministries but it was funded and it had legal personality status but as an association of citizens, not as some other which would be included in the register as another organisation. And no functional funding has been resolved. And that's why the president of the Joint Council of the Montenegrin municipalities is the 11th of November in Erdu. And the final government will be resolved that funding systematically and financing. Now let's go to the replicas. First Mr. Representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63879	Thank you very much. We often hear that we have very good laws. However, practice has denied us. These very good laws are not implemented in practice. In fact, if the law is good and does not implement the practice, who is responsible for implementing these laws? The Government of the Republic of Croatia is therefore responsible. However, I am surprised that we are having a debate here on some issues, so around houses owned by citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so they were Italians, Serbs, Bosniaks, Slovenians, that's actually a little strange for me. Or we could have a debate today about the Erdut Agreement. We're actually talking about everything and we don't want to talk about important things. The fact is, and you mentioned the Law on Discrimination, the fact is that the basic problem is in the field of work. What concerns me, and you have indicated that in 2009, the number of employees in the authorities of the state administration in the judiciary has been reduced, not that the quota has been met, but has been reduced. It doesn't matter if it's down 0.01% or if I don't know 5%. But the fact is he's been reduced. Look, if you take into account that over the past seven years, 10 billion kunas have been allocated in this country over the years than in 2003 and that someone here will convince me that there is a difficult social situation, the recession is a condition that members of national minorities are not employed in state administration bodies. That's not true. Now, you see, when you have a situation of falling employees of national minorities in government bodies, can you imagine what's going on in the private sector? So we're talking here and it would be good to concentrate more on fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63880	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63881	That the difficult economic situation is the reason for discrimination has also been written in the government's statement on a report by the Police Attorney on discrimination. That's when I said it was absolutely unacceptable. Because in poverty, too, he should be just. When the poor begin to cut off the smaller one, the weaker only because he is smaller and weaker, then we come to give terrible injustices. It's easy in wealth to spend money on everyone, even for minorities. But when it is said in the recession, the burden of this poverty will have to be borne first by minorities, then we cannot talk about just society. That's exactly what the government said. That the difficult economic situation we are going through is the reason for discrimination against minorities. We must therefore work on this, first of all on the attitude, on the awareness of it. If that can be a dominant consciousness, if that's the government's consciousness, then we have no chance of solving this issue of national minorities' equality in due course.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63882	Next replica, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63883	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would say that counterpart Stazic was well aware of the problem when he mentioned that when Serb national community members of the Serb national minority live both in other areas of the Republic of Croatia and when he asked her a question, does this mean that these three SDSS arms should be taken care of as well? The question is really not just, nobody is questioning the need for funding.../The speaker is off.../... but it's being asked, don't shut me down please, please, that I'm not really using a speech aid. The question is therefore raised, without prejudice to the need to finance the needs of national minorities. The question of rational and dedicated spending of these funds is raised. At a time when the crisis is then it cannot be allowed that the funds the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but even other international institutions give to finance these associations, to be spent without purpose. I'll only mention one fact. The Council of the Serbian National Minority of Virovitica-Podravska County complains to the State Attorney's Office, so it speaks of the irrational and unintended spending of the funds of the Serbian National Council, which is the co-ordination body for the territory of the Republic of Croatia and has legal personality for the needs of the Serbian national minority in Croatia. And you know what happened, that the Serbian National Council spent a million and a half kuna on purpose for the needs of the Serbian National Community in Kosovo. Who will answer, and is this a rational spending of money the Government of the Republic of Croatia gives? And let me just say, when it comes to financing house renovations, no one is normal against financing the restoration of all the victims in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63884	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63885	But at a time of this kind of nonsense, I specifically spoke, correcting Mr. Horvat's incorrect quote when he said it wasn't important the amount of money that was given. It's very important, especially if we have in mind...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63886	All right, all right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63887	What is the attitude towards the majority of the people, towards the Croats who also suffered greatly in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63888	Thank you very much. ... Please! [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Please! Don't... don't... don't... don't... Don't... don't... don't... don't... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Comrade Buric, please. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] My friend Buric, so hold on, so let's not go too far. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Why are you bringing me... Everything is true except for one qualification that you presented. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Select which one you want to choose is not correct. Replication response, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63889	About this last thing you said, there is no colleague dear, there must be no discrimination about what a difficult situation is, and now we're going to tell some we're going to rebuild, some we won't, and because we don't have the money, and we're going to renew it and then we're only going to have Serbian houses if they come in line. I absolutely don't accept that attitude. It's even anti-constitutional. What you suggested. But now the first part of your replica. Look, the relationship between the majority and the minority is always a sensitive question, always. For decades in Croatia, there will be a sensitive issue, especially relations between the Serb minority and the Croatian majority, due to historical heritage, we do not have to lie. We all know that's the case. And that's why this aid in any form, especially when it's financial, but absolutely nothing can be compromised. Why, because we will make the position of the Serb national minority more difficult if we engage. We'll make their position more difficult. And if it's true that the community of the councils has been funded as an association of citizens, then three people are enough to form an association of citizens. Well, you can't say that's the most transparent form of assistance to the Serb national minority, you can't say. We use institutional forms, we use them maximum, we protect these minority rights as much as we can, let's finance it as much as we can budget. But let's not compromise that because we're going to hurt those we claim to be helping them.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63890	Third replica, Mr. Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63891	Thank you very much. I'm using the replica institute, not the wrong quote because otherwise I think it's better to say I don't agree than you've made a mistake. Mr. Stazic, it seems to me that you are too easy to use the word "trade" and then you come across immediately from the HDSSB partners who give you immediately for your right, and I don't know how much it benefits you and we all benefit from having a common opinion with Mr. Glavas' party. With Mr. Glavas' client. [[Intruder: It's not the Glavas' party.]] When you talk about us having a constructive conversation and having a lot of arrangements with the ruling party then you have to understand that this is the way of political work and that using the word trade here is not really an investment in your future, so I would ask you not to use it so often. And I would also ask you not to be in the same position as the HDSSB, I tell you, the replica I give you, that's my opinion, when you talk about the Joint Council of the municipalities and it doesn't suit you either. You'd better listen to this case, only in this case, Mr. Shakespeare, when he explained that it was part of the Erdut Agreement. I'd like to ask and now I'm giving you a chance to answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63892	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63893	Dear colleague Radin, so I don't have the ambition to share views with the HDSSB, there's hardly anything we agree on. Therefore, you can avoid that fear, that fear is gone, at least not with me. Perhaps the word political trade is too harsh and I agree with you and accept this observation. But in response to the replica I just gave this relationship between the parties representing the minorities and the majority party forming the Government, it must be as clear and clear as possible in the interests of those minorities as possible. If we for this community of municipalities, because for now she's just an association of citizens, just an association of citizens, we couldn't find a better framework, then it shouldn't have been financed. You know, when I travel through my electoral unit and there are members of the Serb national minority and they object. And I guess we're Serbs, too. Well, not only do the Serbs live in Vukovar. So political trade may well be a harsh word. Perhaps it would be better to say that the fulfillment of bilateral interests, the government has an interest in getting hands, minority parties have some other interest, so that's what these interests are all about. When these interests coincide with the damage of these people, these minority members in some area outside that area of interest, then we have done evil. And I wouldn't want to do evil. I'd like this job to go in the right direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63894	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63895	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, Article 209. I must say that Mr. Honorable Representative Furin hurt his Rules of Procedure when he spoke about us, so the HDSSB representatives. We are a parliamentary party that has its name, chosen by the Croatian people. But I must also tell you, sir, that we are not ashamed of our founder, who is a Croatian general, we are not ashamed of being call us the Glavas Party, we are not ashamed of him, and it is a shame for the Croatian state that there are those who say that it is not good to cooperate and share an opinion with us, and it is good to trade with the hands of those who have destroyed the Croatian state. Among them are the declared but abolised Chetniks and their president is Vojislav Stanimirovic. So don't lecture us about how we're the Glavas' party. We pride ourselves on the founder of the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja Croatian General and one of the heroes of the Homeland War Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63896	Mr. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63897	Thank you very much. There's no Stazic, now it's too late for a replica... But good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Stazic is trying to impute that I said I was against building broken houses. That's not true, it's just not true. So, it's about and I said there's a phonogram that it's about the principle of a key in the arm for 8300 apartments or houses for former tenants of household law with a wave of members of the aggressor army. That's what I said, and I didn't say what Mr. Stazic was imputing to me. Next, we were in Vukovar the other day. I'm very often in Vukovar on that side of Eastern Slavonia, Srijem. Believe me, I am very often among members of the Serbian national community who say there is no Stazic, but it doesn't matter. This country is a fantasy. There's no better and no more crazy state. We got, even though we were in the army abolized, so Krajina got houses, pensions, everything. That's nice!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63898	The laws on forgiveness and abolization were initiated and signed by the first Croatian president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman, all those laws. These laws were also in the role of the territorial structure of Croatia, the rounding of Croatian sovereignty and the Croatian state. Individual debate, Ms. Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63899	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's a whole series of measures taken and taken by the government and the state bodies, in fact, made it possible for national minorities to exercise their rights in all areas of life as Mr. Taker, on behalf of the Vice-President, pointed out. Issuing significant resources has definitely contributed to the development of different activities of minority associations. Of course, this is also a contribution to creating a positive atmosphere for further progress and development of minority rights. Representatives of national minorities are our partners, i.e. we are all partners in decision-making processes from local to state level, which is certainly a guarantee for the full development of democracy in Croatia. The Framework Convention on the Rights of National Minorities, as well as the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages, have been highly evaluated by the Council of Europe, and not only by domestic experts, as progress has been made in achieving minority rights. Progress is also in the field of education because teaching takes place in the language and letter of the minority. It's done in three models involving over 10,000 students. The resources for the cultural area are increasing to preserve the different forms of action of national minorities. Constitutional law has reached employment of members of national minorities in state administration, justice, local and regional self-government units. The government's progress has also been achieved on the agenda of achieving religious rights. An important segment within the responsibility of the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy is implementing a reconstruction programme in the war-damaged and destroyed houses. In 2009, a program of organized reconstruction of family homes from 4th to 6th degree damage was launched by the established rights in accordance with the provisions of the Revival Act, and I was not surprised that we had just heard what we were talking about, about houses. So what are we going to talk about about, uh, respected colleagues and colleagues, if not exactly this. So, it is covered by the restoration of 9100 and 60 family houses, of which 75% is from the county I come from, which is Sibenik-Kninska and Zadar County. At present, some 140 family homes have been completed, which have been dedicated to the owners for use, and have remained at a very high stage of completion. At the moment when we representatives in the Croatian Parliament received this Report, according to the Law on areas of special state care according to the E4 model, about 180 houses were arranged, 110 of which were over which a technical review was carried out and on the rest were also at a very high stage of completion. In 2009, an eye was paid, and that should be said, and so far it has not been mentioned, and 270 financial support for repairing family damages from grade 1 to grade 3, and all funds are paid up-to-date and there is no waiting list for payment. In the programme of building several residential buildings also in areas of special state care, significant progress was made during 2009, as about 100 apartments were restored more than in 2008. The government has made a decision on the implementation of the housing treatment of former tenants of tenant rights in housing outside the area of special state care, which I also personally consider to be a contribution to democracy in Croatia. In June 2008, an action plan was developed to speed up the implementation of the housing programme into and outside the area of special state care and refugees of former tenant rights holders who wish to return to Croatia. Up to now, a total of 6 thousand and 274 housing units have been allocated to former tenants, and 7 hundred more applicants are being refurbished or built. Most applicants are members of the Serb national minority. During 2009 as capital aid, i.e. Refurbishment and construction of social services facilities for areas of special state concern,... a little less than 7 billion kuna, and a little more than 14 and a half million kuna has been paid for co-financing projects in the area of special state care. [[You don't understand.]] So equality is guaranteed before the law and equal rights to protect members of national minorities. The restoration of damaged and destroyed homes in the Homeland War is near the end. The Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy has met the objectives and tasks set in implementing the reconstruction and housing programmes as part of the opportunities available. The report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of National Minorities as well as on the spending of funds secured in the 2009 State Budget is extensive, quality and clear insight into this topic for the purposes of national minorities. The law, once again, has contributed to the creation of a positive atmosphere for the further development of minority rights, which ultimately provide a guarantee for the legal and substantive development of democracy in the Republic of Croatia, so I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63900	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative of Shime Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63901	My colleague said that thanks to the glue... as she said, which was applied by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in all areas of achieving the rights of national minorities achieved success. [[You don't understand.]] Obviously, we didn't read the same report. Well, here's the thing. Success has not been achieved primarily in the space of use of language and letter of national minorities, in the case of the use and the right to bilingualism in the marking of streets, institutions, etc., and most importantly is not progress but fall in the field of work. Be careful if you link this report that you say is excellent and that you will vote with the report on the implementation of the Discrimination Act, which you have only half-accepted, I don't understand it now, it says exactly where the progress has not actually been made. So the incorrect assumption is that progress has been made in all spheres except cultural autonomy and education, which can be measured as such, there is no significant progress anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63902	Two replicas. First Mrs. Representative, Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63903	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, of course, that I agree with your opinion, that I support, I think it's very important to say and support this report, and especially because the representatives who are here are national minorities and of course who are cooperating with their other members support this report. It is equally important and because of the open still chapter 23. Here I have consulted our representative, Pejcinović, and she has just given me relevant information, and let me read it to you now, I think it's very important. It is said in the area of human rights we have laws on the prevention of discrimination, the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on Free Legal Assistance, and then we bind ourselves to the standard of 7 national minorities. About 4% of employees in central authorities, public administration offices and counties, and offices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and other state bodies are declared members of national minorities. So they make themselves known about it. About 5%, 4.74% of members of national minorities were employed by local and regional (regional) government authorities. The thing is, how did it happen? These are members who have pleaded as such, and the other employees among them may have thousands of employees who do not make such statements. Legislative amendments to representatives of national minorities were made possible in addition to proportionate representation in representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government and representation in the executive and administrative bodies of those units. So on 16 June 2010, the Croatian Parliament adopted amendments to the Constitutional Law on the rules of national minorities, based on which national minorities participating in the total population with less than 1 and a half percent, with the general electoral right to vote, and on the basis of general voting law, three parliamentary mandates will be granted to members of the Serb national minority. Let me just get one more thing. Some MPs here have spoken.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63904	Thank you very much. It's all quoted in the laws. Don't quote the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63905	Yes, here's the effort to improve the conditions of life of the Roma and their integration into social relations, a significant increase in the number of Roma children in preschool education has been reported, which is 350.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63906	Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63907	Double.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63908	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63909	I mean, it's important to say that because this is where you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63910	Okay. But there's time for that. Replicate response, Ms. Representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63911	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There's no Mr. Lucin, so let me tell him I didn't want to intervene. Oh, yeah, he's got it. I did not want to intervene with the Institute of Correction, injure the Rules of Procedure, because it is incorrectly still insisting that progress has been made in all areas of life. You have the right to take a great step, Croatia has made a great step thanks to and meeting the high standards of the European Union, and in this respect, the Government has indeed made great efforts, and the application of the law also on free legal assistance that started from 1 February 2009, which applies to all citizens, and thus to members of national minorities to cross different forms of discrimination, as have mobile teams for more effective resolution of national minority status rights, the Roma national minority, as well as the National Programme for Roma since 2003, are primarily addressing requests for Croatian citizenship and the regulation of their stay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63912	And Mr. Representative Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63913	Mr. Vice President, when a colleague spoke, we forget what the agenda is. The agenda item is the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law and on the spending of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. Well, now that that is so, why no one is talking and why the report does not mention that the disputed spending of funds is only for members of the Serbian national community because with the money not shown in the report, which is paid out of the reserve, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia has repeatedly paid out millions of kuna from the reserve despite funding the Serbian National Community by direct agreement with Mr. Popovac. And on the other hand, there are documents about it, you know very well what I'm talking about, and why it's not in the report when it's known that the funds are secured only for situations, for emergencies and unforeseen situations. And secondly, how is it possible for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to order each unit of local and regional self-government to pay according to election results the usual fee for election promotion costs, so there for national minorities, and that only the Serbian National Council of Milorad Pupovac, the same government paid 500 thousand kuna for the same purposes. And many other national minorities participated in these elections, and no such funds were paid to them. Well, don't you think this is discrimination against even other national minorities?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63914	Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63915	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, Mr. Representatives of the Government. I would therefore discuss and discuss this report from another point of view, which is also of course related to this report and I can neither speak nor give myself the right to assess the satisfaction of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia nor their representatives sitting here in the Assembly. I leave that to them, but I will state my position in this report and I will present what I think of this report as both a document and as everything that has been shown and implemented in this report. I think Croatia can be proud to what extent and how it takes care of its own citizens, therefore members of national minorities. And I think the government is doing well and I think it's primarily responsibility and interest of the Republic of Croatia and now and in the future. At the same time, however, when we talk about this issue, and also in part of the report, we have certain types of compatibility with the issues and status of the Croatian national minority in European countries. As a representative in the Croatian Parliament and as president of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, I would like to say a few words that the Croatian public eventually remembers where we have all the Croatian national minorities and what their life looks like and what their situation is in the countries where they live. So, I remind you that we have a Croatian national minority in different forms in Austria, Bulgaria, Montenegro, the Czech Republic, Italy, Kosovo. In Austria, we have an eye, estimated to be about 27 thousand Croats. There, for their needs, is about a million and 150 thousand euros. In Bulgaria, we have about a thousand and a half Croats and no funds are allocated at all for their needs. In Montenegro, we have about 10,000 Croats and about 65,000 euros are set aside for their needs. In the Czech Republic, we have about 800 Croats who have so declared themselves and unfortunately because of those Danes laws that the Croats have actually been assimilated we have no data, so we don't have more of our people. In Italy, we have about 60 thousand Croats and funds are allocated in a way that they apply in different programmes and projects and receive possible financial support. But they only admit there as a language minority. In Kosovo, we have only about 350 Croats, and there were 8 thousand and 800, so close to 9,000 before the war and they did not recognise and receive any funds. In Hungary it is estimated that about 50,000 Croats live, are organised in Croatia's self-government and we are satisfied with the position of Croats in Hungary and that is the assessment of our people, i.e. representatives of Croatians from Hungary. In Macedonia, there are about 3,000 of them and receive a total of about 3,000 euros at the annual level. In Romania, 7.5 thousand and receive about 300 thousand euros. In Slovakia, 3,000 to 4 and support the state at about 53,000 for different projects, 53,000 euros. In Slovenia, we live to estimate about 55,000 Croats, but there they are not recognised as a minority. In Serbia, the assessment is ours, given that in several classes they are led with the aim of assimilation, etc., but it is estimated that up to 200 thousand Croats live there and around the state finances them with 323 thousand euros. Generally, when we speak to representatives of the Croatian national minority from European countries, they mainly express their dissatisfaction with the state, that is, the country they live in. The agreements Croatia has on the protection of minorities with Serbia, with Macedonia, have not yet been signed with Montenegro, with Hungary, Italy at the level of this language minority and with Austria, which was inherited from Yugoslavia. In a conversation with representatives of intergovernmental mixed committees who actually oversee the implementation of minority protection on the one hand and on the other, they stress the problem of non-compliance with internationally signed agreements. First of all, this refers to a country where we have a number of national minorities, which is Serbia, which has no respect for the signatures it itself has signed and from which its obligation arises. I cite the example here for the second time in the Croatian Parliament that not only does the Republic of Serbia not allocate enough funds and does not encourage Croatian education and culture of Croatian children when it comes to Croatian textbooks, but when these textbooks are provided from the Republic of Croatia and when they want to switch to the Republic of Serbia, then they can stand for half a year and a year at the border crossing and do not get permission to cross the border to be used. On the other hand, such an agreement provides for Croats in the Republic of Serbia to be represented in parliament, unfortunately neither this right is respected nor even respected the working legal status of our teachers in the Republic of Serbia. And there even these people work as foreigners, because unfortunately, contrary to all that the Republic of Serbia declares and commits to implement, I do not know the protection in this case of the Croatian national minority does not meet it. On which responsibility for this condition is the Croatian national minority for those cases we are not satisfied with. I think the same way as the responsibility of the Republic of Croatia for the protection of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, the same responsibility should first of all be taken over by countries whose hosts are Croatian citizens, i.e. those whose members are national minorities, their citizens and citizens. So it's a responsibility to those states. Its own responsibility, regardless of what Croatia does in the future and now has both the Republic of Croatia and all its institutions, that in every way it strives to respect, therefore, in terms of conditionality if it is necessary or not to know the diplomatic activities to be undertaken in order to respect internationally signed agreements and to ensure that the country in which the Croatian national minority lives implements the agreement. I know that Croatia will never agree, nor do I encourage it to withdraw the question of reciprocity in respect of minority rights, because Croatia has decided that this is its decision on its own and leads politics on its own when it comes to relations with its own national minorities, but it also gives it the right to both at European and bilateral level to insist on what the different national minorities have and in the countries in which the Croatian national minority lives. In the end, I have to say that for such a bad condition, where there is a bad situation, and there are many states, we also bear a sort of responsibility. So I, as a representative elected on the list of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, is responsible for this and for MPs, national minorities in the Croatian Parliament representing individual national minorities. He can never say that he is not and alone responsible for the state of the Croatian national minority in Serbia. A colleague of Radin, Italy, etc. Therefore, all together here must assume responsibility and with one joint concerted effort we must at least draw closer to respecting those minority rights in countries where the Croatian national minority lives, as is the case with national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. I will not mention here, nor is the time, Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are people, are not a national minority but, unfortunately, the Constitution has almost been brought to national minority levels in a completely unacceptable way. I would conclude, the Republic of Croatia is soon bringing a strategy of the Republic of Croatia's relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, in which one segment will also be dedicated to the Croatian national minority. This will be very effective, we hope, instrument and contribution from the Croatian government to correcting this poor situation in which the Croatian national minority is located in the European countries. I ask all present representatives here, regardless of party membership, that when this document comes in debate to give it full support and I repeat, we have responsibility and we who formally represent Croats outside of Croatia but also... a representative sitting in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63916	Thank you. Three replicas. Mr. Sima Luchin's first representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63917	Thank you very much, given that my colleague Bagarić spoke a lot about the position of the national minority, members of the national minority in other countries, I believe that we will discuss this in more detail when it comes, you mentioned this point on the agenda, but I think that the position of the Croatian national minority is on the honor of either pride or shame of those countries. I would love to see one representative of the Croatian national minority rise in one of those parliaments, so there is an argument to say that they respect the rights of other minorities in Croatia and that this is a basic argument. I have answered to tell you that I do not understand your satisfaction and pride with what Croatia is doing on this plan. Often pleasure and pride are not motivated, because when we're satisfied, then it's pulling us in and not doing something to make a bigger step. I've been doing a little math, so I've calculated, I've only got two segments. So when it comes to using language rights in units of local self-government and administration, if we go at this pace here for 3 to 4 years, we could make it right, and when it comes to the presence of members of the National Minority in representative bodies in units of local and regional self-government if we continue at this pace in 10 years, we will be in line with all the statutes and we will have members there. Therefore, I do not see this reason for satisfaction, I would like us all to be dissatisfied and to solve the shortcomings mentioned in the Report as a minus.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63918	Reply to the replica Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63919	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am precisely the reason that you have now said that it is not my place to assess the satisfaction or not the satisfaction of the representatives here in the National Minorities Assembly representing national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. But by reading the report and seeing everything that Croatia does both against the crisis and against the different problems it encounters and vice versa, we cannot forget that yesterday literally Croatia was exposed to one brutal aggression and that we have now reached that level. And on that side, I think we can be satisfied. Normally, I accept what you say is that everything can always be improved and better, but overall, I think at the end of the line, the representatives of the national minorities who support the government's work and who support this report says that we have reason to be really happy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63920	And Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63921	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd look back a little on bilateral contracts, they can in any case empower the protection of national minorities. However, they may at some point be a danger if minorities are favored on the basis of bilateral contracts. Today, in certain positions in the budgets, we find the basis of bilateral contracts. The team is more at risk of complications, because some contracts are recognised as bilateral and some are not. We have five contracts that are directly concluded as bilateral contracts for the protection of national minorities. This report mentions a contract with Austria in '55. the year where one article is protected by the Croatian minority there. Unfortunately, two contracts between the Czech Republic and Slovakia concluded by the Republic of Croatia are not mentioned but means '97. Even with Slovakia a little later where cultural cooperation agreements, scientific, cooperation in the field of education are just talking about where articles are set out on how to protect the minority in these countries or vice versa of the Czech and Slovak minorities here, and here they are unfortunately not mentioned as bilaterals, which is already being discriminated against in some way that something is taken as a bilateral is not taken as a bilateral. On the other hand, I agree with the fact that we MPs should play an important role, but what we cannot and cannot organise that minority in that other country because this would be an unfair change, and very often this country gives, for example, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, to disposition certain funds according to programmes such as the EU, and these minorities do not have the capacity to absorb it. So I don't know how to help them, but there's definitely a wish and it's good if we do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63922	Reply to the replica Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63923	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Chuhnil, I think we were talking about the same thing I'd say the same way. In this report, I think it would be good if it were not at bilateral level I do not know some agreements about what is being reported with the Croatian National Minority in certain European countries, so I would suggest that the government's representatives really expand this report, expand it and be more than one site that will constantly show the state of the Croatian national minority in European countries and that will ultimately encourage us to improve this position as much as possible. On the other hand, I understand that neither you nor I nor anyone else can organise a Croatian national minority in certain European countries, but you and we and the Government can all contribute to the fact that at least the host country is not working to break that national minority. Witnesses that in the Republic of Serbia, in a certain way, literally encourage the division of Croats to the Bunjevci, to these and those, so to speak. Therefore, we must influence the governments of the countries in which our minority lives to help and not prevent the development of the national minority and to meet at least international agreements and standards that are European and which, if they do not meet Croatia, are at least at European level.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63924	And Mr. Representative Dinko Buric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63925	I'll be brief. There are few things I agree with the views I've heard from HDZ representatives in this session. This time, my colleague Bagarić agrees with you completely and has nothing to add. That's all I'm going to add, that's what HDSSB representatives of the Glavas party think.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63926	Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63927	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, respected colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Here is the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 for the needs of national minorities. So it's a broad comprehensive report, as one constitutional law actually deserves, since it's not as it is mentioned here several times, it's not about one ordinary law, it's about a law with constitutional power. And also because it is about the position, role and importance of national minorities in the overall democratic image of a country, this time the Republic of Croatia has spoken of several times in these benches, and to say regularly from Europe we are warned about these things. I would talk here about the role of national minorities at local level, since I come from Vukovar-Srijem County, so from the county where every 5th person is a member of a national minority and which is an example of a multinational county, so it should be an example of how it works in respect, building and developing the rights of national minorities. After elections were held for representatives of national minorities in Vukovar-Srijem County, 5 county councils were established and three representatives of national minorities were elected at the county level. Similarly, 24 councils were formed in local self-government units and 6 representatives of national minorities were elected in local self-government units. So, all together somewhere 38 councils and representatives of national minorities were built after the election. Looking at this report and considering what is actually a fundamental function of national minorities, which is to be partners with local self-government units in the behaviour of government and in building units of local self-government. I'd like to point out a few details here. So I'm not going to speak widely, but I'm going to concentrate on this report, as well as on the contributions that are attached here. Therefore, in addition to the attached by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, there is a list of councils and representatives of national minorities covered by the financing decision. Of the 38 constitutional councils and representatives of national minorities mentioned above, the government's contribution included 22 of these include 17 councils and 5 representatives of national minorities. It would be logical for representatives of national minorities to cover at least all those countyal since their character of representing national minorities is one broader character at local level. So they should be the leading part of the national minorities in the county they cover. I remind you, Vukovar-Srijem County is a county with over 200 thousand inhabitants and I said, every fifth resident, so almost 40 thousand inhabitants are members of national minorities. I see from everything here that there is therefore a county representative of national minorities not covered by this decision. I won't say that's the consequence of the government's decision in the sense that she's decided who deserves who doesn't. It may also be about that part of showing the needs and really representing minorities in the right sense of the word. In fact, since I am partly familiar with the situation regarding representatives of the national minority of Germans and Austrians in Vukovar-Srijem County, since I work with associations that work there, even I am a member of one of these associations, I have to mention the matter here even though I also discussed it at the county assembly because the county congregations regularly discuss these things. Every year they have reports, they allocate certain funds, and it is logical to care about how the funds are spent and in what form. I repeat, it is unacceptable that a county representative should not be included and that it does not prove to exist particularly in this eastern part of Croatia where, apart from Osijek-Baranja County, Vukovar-Srijem County and what is here in the City of Zagreb are indeed locations where the representatives of the German and Austrian national minorities are listed. I must say, I am aware that there have been certain problems in 2009 in the functioning of the representative himself. There have been some misunderstandings regarding the submission of the work report, the submission of a report on the spending of funds, about who it represents, how it works, etc. In the end, a strange case occurred, that a representative of the national minority had drifted away and, say, associations gathering members of those national minorities. That distance has reached strange proportions, it's gone to court. So perhaps this is the consequence, or perhaps this is a non-containment of the decision to finance the consequences and such events. Therefore, I would also ask the national minority advice to address this problem a little bit, to try to solve this problem if this is possible in the first place so that members of the national minorities of Germans and Austrians can function in the right way. But I would also like to point out here that the association that does not function according to the report of the representatives who have been submitted has received 21 thousand kuna for cultural amateurism, so the German and Austrian associations in the City of Vukovar. So there are some illogicalities, and I'm just using this example to suggest that at certain levels some of the other members of the national minorities may have equally unexplained things. One more thing I would point out here, and as regards this second part, it concerns the contribution that we have received, which is called the functioning of councils and representatives of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. So on the 50th page, one truly comprehensive and comprehensive empirical survey in the area of minority rights in the Republic of Croatia is presented. Since this is the first such report and since it is a report that has been obtained through the method of surveying members of national minorities, it is very interesting to see all that this report has brought about, because this is how certain problems can really be located. Therefore, it should also be carefully analysed and seen where, in which segments, problems can be solved and improved both by the life and work of members of national minorities. Why do I mention this report and certain problems? Because also, I repeat again, from the perspective of the councillors in the County Assembly of Vukovar-Srijem County and the man who is working with the associations, I know that one of the problems is that certain reports that are submitted to local self-government units, therefore to the councils and county assemblies, and possibly to the Office of the Government, are a set of some shrewd data that can contain a particular subjectivity or subjectivity of the report itself. Something can be silenced that is not in the interest of the one who submits the report, and something that may be in his interest may be pointed out, and it is not so representative of the work of the minority community. The other thing is, I'm going to highlight one problem that's very common and you can see from this study. It is a problem of space for the work of councils and representatives of national minorities. The council, however, is very weak. Therefore, in this context, it is necessary to try to resolve whether representatives of minorities are gathering in the area and doing their part of the work. So I conclude, I fully accept this report and here I am asking about these questions which I have asked to take a little account of also at the Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for national minorities, but also at local councils and county assemblies.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63928	Thank you. Two replicas. First, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63929	My colleague Heffer, you are rightly warning about the problems that arise from the inability of the participation of representatives of the minority Germans, Austrians in Vukovar-Srijem County and the very associations dealing with this minority problem, but fortunately the associations we are talking about here, first and foremost the German and Austrians in Vukovar and the German communities in Osijek, have established a very good relationship where, in fact, the Association in Vukovar works as its branch, because the German community in Osijek known as Deutsche Gemeinschaft is as such the strongest, most powerful and definitely the best and most open concern of many problems, from property, civil, cultural, educational, etc. So these problems that exist with a minority representative are actually compensated in some way by the proper and good work of these two associations. Unfortunately, unlike the community in Osijek, the associations in Vukovar have no good conditions to work. I remind myself there was once a very numerous German minority living in Vukovar. It's not just the family of Eltz known family in our town of Vukovar, it's many others. From the cannons that we find there in the hill of Kraut, we'll be told further. But an association that inherits a long history, minorities in that city unfortunately have no spatial conditions to work with. And I'd like to find strength and will to help them in that sense, and I'm sorry that it's not done by a minority representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63930	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Stephen Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63931	Thank you very much, dear colleague Beus Richembergh. I've just referred to two problems. One problem is communication, and after that the representatives of the chosen ones will cooperate. Of course, it is always necessary to determine the way someone has been elected, how many members of the national minorities have gone to the polls, selected him, etc. And on the other hand, associations that are really part of the minority community that are passing through the traditional part, that are passing through the cultural part of certain national minorities and that are working. And the other problem, of course, is the problem of where it will work, how and how it will work, at what level of quality. And here I am using the opportunity of a respected colleague, Beus Richembergh, to express the satisfaction of how much I am informed soon after the new year to present your book in Vukovar regarding the minority part of the German People's Community, so here you may be able to help with some things in order to solve certain problems as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63932	And Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63933	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I just want to replicate my colleagues, Heffer, in part, that I really agree that relations between associations and councils or representatives of national minorities are not regulated, that on the one hand we have elected bodies that have defined powers through the Constitutional Law Article 31. As well as the way we finance and on the other hand we have associations. And these associations that eventually work, do well, protect culture and the identity of national minorities. But unfortunately, we also have associations of those who have established three members, for example, and who often abuse that position, which are very often carried out through associations by various ethnic businesses etc. And now how do you align it? I think that we should work precisely on a better regulation, that still elected bodies are somehow control mechanisms of what happens in just formed associations. But a normal bond to the units of local self-government, not that everything is left to the verse. I think there must be responsibilities. I, too, from this very law when we asked for the Register Act to be extended and in a way of working on funding, that this segment of cooperation, that is to say, defines what the competences of which are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63934	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Stephen Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63935	Thank you, esteemed colleague Chuhil. Of course, there is a problem with associations that gather three members and thus receive certain funds. Of course, there is a problem of elected representatives who have chosen a critically small number of minority representatives who choose them, who also receive funds for their work, and then justify it I don't know what. However, in any case, the association is a broad term that, apart from the members of minorities themselves, can include people who are not members of minorities who will help in the work of the association. And finally, what you see from the work of the association is very recognizable and transparent. So if there are programs, if there are to be such things as events, events or something else, you can say it clearly. It's hard to say that if, of course, it's not a three-member association that there's an association that counts 20, 50 or 100 members, so it's said that I don't know what it's done. It's gotta be seen anyway. I am in favour of clearing up these problems that exist in this relationship the representatives of the association and the rest which is not, therefore, occupied or assembled representatives of minorities, all in the interest and in order to make the quality presentation and the problems of the minority community and their work and their importance for the Republic of Croatia more important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63936	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63937	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I have prepared only two, three things to say for myself. But before I say anything on my own behalf, I want to say something that we have an agreement with other members of the House, better said to the MPs, and I mean members of the national minorities, and that concerns some additional findings about the Electoral Law that we have not been able to say for the sake of the time when we spoke, when Mrs. Chuhnil spoke nicely on behalf of the National Minority Club. By the 15th, I'm looking at you, Mr. Shakespeare, I don't know why, until the 15th of the 12th. For beauty. [[I'll tell you the beauty of it.]] By 15.12., the deal is to pass the election law this year, the Electoral Law. If she's here, then I have nothing more to say. But I'll tell you anyway. And this Electoral Law for Parliament, of course the MPs in the Parliament, and of course this Electoral Law, which I have agreed to repeat, is to be adopted by 15.12. in this Electoral Law, what we have long been talking about and what has been finally achieved, must be re-scheduled those changes to constitutional ones, which we have adopted this year in the Constitutional Law. I know this is a report for another year, but since we've been talking about this same problem for years, I think it's time and now we're talking about this same problem. So by 15.12. we have to pass that law and please gentlemen from the government and gentlemen from the coalition parties, please, please, that's just the part. Because if we're going to go to some code that includes a choice, the election law of the President of the Republic, and we're going to go also into a code that includes local elections, and we're not going to get out of this problem so easily, and we need to get out because the Constitution obliges us. So that's something we decided yesterday at the club, which we also sent to Mrs. Prime Minister Kosor's letter and to you, Mr. Shakespeare, and we expect that, finally, this story that takes a long time to be completed. Just two words about what counterparts and friends Damir Cain said, because he called me, invited me to talk about the situation at school in Novigrad. It's a sad story, about this sad story many have caught up to say bad about human relations in Istria, and they're eager to talk bad about minorities in Istria, I'd just like to send one appeal here to those who are most important to me in the whole story, and these are parents where they're too small, and it's hard for me to tell them an appeal, parents and children who are thinking about enrolling children in the Italian school in Novigrad in the following year, the situation is solved in Novigrad, and I'm asking all of these parents that without any fear that, which was previously spoken of here, without any fear, they're enrolling children in the Italian school, because everything that happened here, what happened in this case, is not really the fruit of nationalism, is not the fruit of the national features of this or that candidate, it's the fruit of local cuisine, and behind it's standing behind it. And including the State's Attorney's Office, the police, the local and fortunately no other HDZ, it's just proof that we're in the election year and that everyone can take a bad approach to their election campaign. And finally, at the end of the third, what Mr. Grubisic said which thank God he returned, so he can replicate to me afterwards. We recently went through an airport, it was Mr. Marin Jurjevic and I on a long journey, that airport in Houston. At that airport in Houston, everything is bilingual. At that airport in Houston from the store, to the phone call over the beep, to the information, to the bathroom, I have a picture, all bilingual, everything is on. ... Yeah, yeah, it does, you'll see soon enough. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's all in English and Spanish. And I went to ask one cop if every cop must know Spanish here, he said not every cop, in southern Texas anyone who wants to get a job in public and in the state service has to know Spanish. And when we talk about that police officers in Istria should know Italian, we're not talking about the tourist police. One day we will have the tourist police, which deals with tourism so that they can speak English, can speak French, etc., we are talking about police who must respect laws relating to statutes that have bilingualism in them. So those who have to respect the history of one end, who have to respect the traditions of one end and who have to respect what most people think in that area, because most people don't think so would not vote such statutes. Of course, there are cowboys in Texas who don't think so, but those who don't think so, so you don't have to share our opinion, but let us decide better at home, in our county. And if there is an Italian language in the middle, then let us decide that public services and the police, that we agree on police, police officers, I mean in most cases they don't know Italian because simply human policy is such that everyone has problems and they all have difficulties, but the tendency is that they know exactly because it's a feature of not a minority, but it's a characteristic of the area and that's why I strongly protest against what Mr Grubisic said before, and I say that what he's saying in that way has no idea about Istria, he has no idea of multiculturality, and he has no idea what it means to respect minorities based on the will of the majority, and he has no idea that most in Istria actually considers it to be a characteristic and wealth of one region. If anyone thinks we're special, we leave it to him as a private matter, as his personal problem, but we ask him not to come about this problem to edit at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63938	Thank you. Three replicas. First Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63939	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the first part, Brother Furio really spoke about what was not in this report, but he spoke about constitutional law, he spoke about minority legislation, that is, about national minorities. He talked about the fact that this year we have changed constitutional law and the fear that there will also be problems with implementation, and let's remind ourselves that most of us through the discussion have just said that we have excellent minority laws, but that very often in implementation we do not do everything to really bring these laws back to life and that minorities would be in some way satisfied, that is to have all the rights that these laws give them, meaning no greater rights. And I want to say that you did well to mention it, because if we don't do this job now until 15.12, it means within this deadline, we're going to happen next year not to change the electoral law, because it can't be changed a year before the election, and that means that this right that we've entered into the Constitutional Law will only be able to consume in 5 years. Which means every year we're going to point out again how we have a good law that doesn't apply. And therefore, it is really important to implement the Election Law as soon as possible in order for what is defined under the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities to be incorporated into it and could be consumed in the next parliamentary elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63940	Madam Representative Tanja Vrbat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63941	Thank you very much. My colleague, Radin, here I am after you referred to the Italian primary school in Novigrad, and I also come from that area, and I also want to say that you need to calm down the tensions, that you need to explain what's going on. There were procedural errors in that contest, etc., so we don't get into the details now. However, we need to be responsible and explain what the matter is. The lady who used to be head of the school was Croatian nationality. Therefore, it is perfectly normal for Croatia to be also, it can be Italian, it can also be a member of the Serbian people. We need to make it clear to everyone that it's not a dispute over there. Because some colleagues, including Damir Caine, unfortunately claim it should be, that it is normal for the Italian school principal to be Italian. And I think that with equal qualifications with other candidates, then she can have the advantage, but if she doesn't, she doesn't have to be. We must be responsible and say that the director can also be elected at the Croatian school, but it would be nice to have him elected from the Italian people. And since I have a little time, here's a gentleman from the MUP, also sitting here in government benches, so I want to call and publicly appeal and invite him to work with local administrations and self-government units in areas where bilingualism exists that we, in certain cities and municipalities, train city government workers around the Italian language specifically, so I also call on the MUP to cooperate with local units to see if a certain number of employees can be educated for these needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63942	Replication response, Mr. Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63943	Thank you very much. I don't respond to Mrs. Chuhnil's replica because I agree with her and not waste any time, I agree completely with her. Mrs. Verbat is as you say, but it is as Mr. Cain says it is. And so it is, as Mr. Cain says, because we tend to have school principals in Italian as Italian and that's natural. But, of course, constitutionally, it is the right to be Croats. And in some schools, you said yourself that before she was Mrs. Director was a Croatian. And so it must be respected. Of course, we believe that in cases where they have equal conditions to be from the Italian national minority because that thing is normal, it's always been and so it says in the law. Well, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for telling me I had to lift that up for the replica, and I was forgetting, I thought it would come by default. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63944	It's often the tooth of time that causes oblivion, I know it by myself. And Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63945	You mean... Mr. Shakespeare. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay. Mr. Honorable colleague, Radin, you have completely reversed the thesis. You actually, I'd say, in your mind, you're not looking at enough, to say the general thing. In fact, Istria is a Croatian country, Istria is a Croatian breast and a Croatian area. And I believe that regardless of the national minorities there are that the population should know the Croatian language, then they could also agree with a police officer who speaks only Croatian. Secondly, Houston is not Istria. The analogy you've set, it's really funny and even a prank. And that's your prank. You know that Texas was a country that, after the Battle of Alamo, belonged to the United States where 40% of its inhabitants live today, 40% of its inhabitants. As far as I know, such a situation in Istria is not when we talk about minorities Italian and others. So you're completely inadequate analogy. Second, third pardon, in Slavonia everyone is welcome. We have 24 national minorities, and you would ban me as a parliamentary representative, colleagues, as a Croatian citizen, as one who loves Croatia and clearly and Istria above all, you would forbid me from coming to Istria. You don't want that! You could have banned Thompson, but you won't forbid me. Remember that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63946	Replication response, Mr. Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63947	Thank you very much. In this area, there is indeed an excess of history in the parts of our area. To the side so that there could be some analogies between Texas and Istria, but we won't take them so we don't cause any further debate about it. I just want to say this: that in Istria is best known what belongs to this environment and what does not belong. At the end of my mind, it was not forbade Mr. Grubisic to come to Istria. People from Japan come to us from all parts of the world, but if they don't want to see Italy in Istria, they don't have to come because Italy is important in Istria and Istria cannot be defined without Croatian and without Italian. And that's what we know. And if you don't know that, you don't have to come check it out. But if you come to check positive with a wish positive, with a desire to learn then come. And the other thing is that you tell us that we know Croatian too, so we shouldn't be disturbed by bilingualism. You know what that is? It is something that no one in Istria would understand even those who disagree with us because bilingualism is the right minority that theirs, you said earlier, that one who knows Croatian can ask... It's summed up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm telling you that where the official language of Italy can speak Croatian, it can speak Italian. I often speak Croatian and where Italian minority gatherings are actually what I use my right to speak either Croatian or Italian. I'm sorry you don't understand, I'm sorry you don't understand, and I hope one day you'll understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63948	Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63949	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We are talking today about the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law, but I hope that we can remember the same stories when we talked about the implementation of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination or the contents of the Report of the Ombudsman of the General Assembly simply because it is a sensitive issue if I may say so or about an important social issue that we have the right to seek if I can thus say the significant social sensitivity and responsibility that matters. I'm going to say a few things pretty short here and hopefully it'll be clear what my opinion is and how these things stand. It seems to me that we're still moving in the scheme, we have very good regulations, we have a very good norm, and as far as practice goes, we've made a shift or we're doing a shift. I think it's true, but I also think and I'm sure it's not enough. If five years ago we could have stayed on that scheme now we have to take a step further. I think that we should also go in this direction and discuss in this place, but in this direction we should also go in relation to these reports and how we will also set up the relationship between the authorities that are responsible for the operational implementation of the laws. Another thing I want to say here is that the position of minorities is measured and appreciated primarily by how consistently law or laws apply to these groups or to the protection of the rights of those groups. It's above all constitutional law and I don't think we can be satisfied with that thing. I'll point to one thing I'm not happy with either. When we talked earlier about the Constitutional Law Implementation Report when we talked about the Report of the Ombudsman, now recently when we talked about the implementation of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, it is a practice that we take these reports into account and I think that it is a step backwards from the practices we have built and especially regarding the need to address these issues, it is quite... about the realisation of the rights of minority groups, so how these rights are achieved. I think everyone and this House and the Government and everyone else must have a more active view of it. It's simply that these laws, which I say, concern the rights of minority groups, are not implemented consistently. In order not to remain unspeakable, I will give two examples. The government had to adopt an action plan for the implementation of the Constitutional Law, which aims to speed up the implementation of the law, the name wants to "turn" the practice of implementing the Law, which actually recognises that the law is not being consistently implemented. And another thing the government had to intervene in, conduct additional elections for representatives, to participate where it was prescribed by law, the government had to prescribe elections in some units, contrary to the will of those units of local self-government. This therefore speaks of the fact that laws are not implemented automatically, and this should also speak of the fact that laws are not implemented consistently. The third thing I will mention here, the implementation of the Law and the creation of a more favourable climate, a more positive climate, a positive social environment compared to the position and rights and status of minority members. There's been a lot of talk here about how much money is invested. The position of minorities is primarily measured by this attitude of society towards their rights and their status and their situation and by the relationship between the authorities and those central and those of others to its position, its rights and its status. The question is this social relationship or this relationship to conscience is both the government and the majority. Well, today someone here has said what they can do most in no case can ever be done by a minority. Now, here I'm going, since there are times when a message is sent in this hall that amazes me, I'm going to say one thing. It is still, unfortunately, too many public manifestations of individual and group, media and others who are ordering quotes from the newspaper: "Some in the Republic of Croatia must walk on their fingers". Probably someone thinks or doesn't need to walk. Unfortunately, and in this hall, fortunately not so many times, I felt, I heard, I recognized such suggestions. The fifth thing, if the position of minorities is measured by money, I'll just say something that is mathematically can be proven. It is here to discuss the budget and some other topics, but again on the budget, some municipalities in which the majority of Serbian nationalities have received grants. It's a very clear thing to do and it won't be said. Donations to municipalities are given as aid to the poor and whatever the number of such donations and whatever the number of such municipalities in which the majority are, this means that there are more and more of them in so many poor people in this society. If that's how we look at things, then I'm afraid, or I'm very confident that we should talk about money differently. There's one more thing I'm going to mention here with the same importance as the first. All people who work as representatives of minorities and my colleagues are very interested and strongly support the same extent that the Republic of Croatia cares about its minorities to the extent that they care about Croats who are in other minority countries. And we don't want to bid that, and we don't want to cause any trouble in that thing. This is very consistent in our thinking and our actions, and it would be wrong to draw different conclusions. But whenever we talk about the problems of our national minorities, then we point to what I have already pointed out, the social relationship in Croatia has not yet created an atmosphere with which we can be satisfied. It should also be a guideline when we refer to this report and reports like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63950	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63951	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I think that this finding and this argument that municipalities with the majority Serbian population had the right to receive aid from the state budget, and all other municipalities in the Republic of Croatia who received the same aid, in 2010, the funds were reduced, an insult to all the poverty in Croatia, and Mr. Gajica of the poor has no national omens, and in our country is the majority people of the Croatian people. The poor woman is also poor in the municipality of Donja Motičina, both in Caglin and in all other municipalities where the majority of the people are in which the majority of the Croatian people are. And don't insult Croats who live in such municipalities and communities by spreading demagogy in this way. And when it comes to walking on your toes, as far as I've noticed, you're not walking on your toes, Mr. Gaitsica, or anyone here, or any of us here, that's coming to mind that you should be walking on your toes. But unfortunately, by the actions of your like-minded 20 years ago, many members of the Croatian people no longer walk at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63952	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63953	Comrade Buric, I will not engage in the way your debate treats and qualifys Croats. But I, Croats, didn't insult or think about it, nor do I have a need for it. And as far as these donations are concerned, I'm going to be so free to say, Minister Schucker has not given anyone money for the municipal budget if they do not have a deficit that allows them to do so. And as these talk about who's more important, who's less important. I think that the importance of a man, and even a minority, should be measured by what he says and how he does it consistently.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63954	My colleague Buric is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have nothing... don't. The replica was in the replica can be expressed different views and views and do not lead me to tell you to try to prove that this is not an injury to the Businessman.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63955	Mr. Vice President, you know very well what I mean and you know I have the right to harm the Rules of Procedure. But that's all I'd say to Mr. Gajica. Instead of walking on your toes, it was expected that on November 18th on the day of memory of everything that happened in Vukovar, that at least one of you came in a column of memories to bow down either there or in Shkabrnja. Until you're ready to do that and you're sitting in the Croatian Parliament, until you have the impression that you're walking on your fingers, and no one's doing that to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63956	My colleague Buric, I warned you nicely, and you deliberately and consciously go and violate the Rules of Procedure, on purpose. Don't do that. So give it once you have great and beautiful discussions and everything expensive, don't bring me and the chairman into a situation that you keep waving about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and with that board you're breaking the Rules of Procedure and thus signaling here's me, Dinko Buric, breaking the Rules of Procedure, and I'm raising the record.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63957	That's how you figure it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63958	Final review of Deputy Prime Minister Free Taker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63959	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives and MPs. Let me first of all thank all of you who participated in the debate in this report and if you would allow me to express three kinds of additional thanks. First of all, thanks to you who praised the report by assessing that it is of quality, good in terms of improving the position of national minorities in our common state and society in it. I'm telling you especially about that, thank you. In particular, thank you to those who have expressed criticism and suggestions with the same goal, with a view to making this report even more quality in the future, pointing to possible shortcomings and failures, and in order to reflect our intention and our reality towards which the position of minorities in Croatia would be even more quality. And finally, a special thank you to Mr Grubisic and his colleague for objecting to this report has been presented in several debates which have been held about the report, as well as other discussions on this. On the grounds of this third kind of gratitude, I don't think I need to make any further arguments. I think what many of you, Mr. Radin, Gajica, Mr. Lucin and the others, have stated enough to me to conclude that if we and the public, the general public, and therefore it is not clear what this is about, then my further clarifications will unfortunately not help. That's why I won't look back, I won't argue, which is why I'm pleased with the opposition of you gentlemen to this report. Let me remind you, Croatia has 22 national minorities. We, who work to improve the position of minority members, divide them into two groups, into a division that is not mentioned here today, so I'll just let you say it a little bit. They are the first to be called the traditional minorities, minorities who have a long tradition of their own formation, their own existence, their own action through history. Another new nation's minorities emerged, created by a recent common Yugoslav state, in which they existed under different statuses. In both of these groups of minorities, we in the government think that we can do more and better to improve their position and thus improve the quality of life in Croatia as a whole, as members of minorities so members of all our people. As far as the government is concerned, the government is convinced that you are aware of your complete and undivided responsibilities for the overall state of affairs in both the state and society and the state of minorities. I will repeat and add something, I am afraid that I was not perhaps clear enough in that part when I was talking about conditional, repetitive, non-responsible, minority obligations to act more on their own position, and there is, of course, the primary responsibility of the Government which, where there is fear, and of course there is fear, I wrote a book myself, let me say that too, under that name of my own time, by trying to remove obstacles and also by improving the position of national minorities in Croatia. So this is about government and government together at lower levels together with minority members and their organizations, or if you want our organizations, each of them in their position is working, but in the same goal. The debates we've heard I think they've confirmed the opening thesis that we've come up with before you, which is the the thesis according to which the normative part of the job is probably well done, normative. From the Constitution, constitutional law continues. I don't think there's much more to be done here, but for all of us, there's a lot more work on the plan of reviving those standards, and I don't think that such one finding is any recognition of the fact that anyone who says it does it wrong than exactly the other way around, that they're aware of the state of things and they're determined that this situation continues to improve. When it comes to these 22 minorities national, then let's be clear, most business, most money and most energy we all spend together and spend on improving the position of two national minorities. One is the Roma, who, as we know, have two major programmes at national level, and whose not only political but even more basic, economic, social economical, existential position is rarely below dignity, below the limits of human dignity which this country is, not only the Government and this Parliament are well aware of, trying to do more in overcoming this position. Let me just remind you that in all European countries Roma are not recognised as a national minority, they are. The two megaprojects are therefore called national programmes, a programme for decades, etc. And it's a job that as far as we've done so far, it's not just finished, I'd say we haven't gone far from the very beginning. That should be made clear. The second national minority, the most numerous by membership, is the Serb, newly created, in relation to which the efforts of us in power, and also members of it together, must seek solutions that are on the best footing of both interests of the harmonised, therefore both the social and the members of those minorities. And that's what we're talking about here, and that's the point of what we're proposing, and that's why we're most common, and that's why we're all looking forward to it, which is joining the European Union, so we're trying to do a new action plan to update these issues, update them, better agree and do more. The government will continue to do so in two ways, either directly by taking direct steps on its own, the government itself and its ministries, either indirectly. As far as indirect action is concerned, something has already been mentioned that the current year has been and has been, it will certainly be considered next year. Those who sit in these benches next year will have a chance to discuss it. And these are the moves that the Government took this spring, which was something spoken of by Mr. Gajica, when the government itself had to intervene towards lower levels of government in order to consistently implement the provisions of the constitutional law regarding local elections when some cities, some municipalities or their leaderships obstructed the need to implement this Law and refused to do so. For example, the second plan, mentioned by Mr Horvat, is related to the means of public communication owned by the state, therefore owned by the citizens of this country. I get letters in particular, disdained people why when such a mega team is hosting, television, radio big city half the city's inhabitants are members of that town, but it can't happen that minority members participate in it. Now I ask you, is the government responsible for this? So he doesn't edit the government's program. On the other hand, it's public television. There's nothing the government isn't responsible for even indirectly. Why would I bring that up? All together building an atmosphere of freedom, rights, tolerance, etc. And so does the government, but not by warrant and order in a editorial sense, but by building these relations of tolerance that we are talking about here indirectly can contribute to that. A few words on the issue of reciprocity that was referred to here as reciprocity in the position of national minorities in Croatia and other countries. Short. I hardly have a word or a word to add or take away what the distinguished representative Bagarić said, and added it in the best possible way to represent Lucin. So, no matter how much the principle of reciprocity seems to be likable, just, etc. That wasn't good enough, that wasn't good enough. Instead of comparing the country with another country, let each country compare with what needs to be done and can be made to be more advanced and quality within itself. So let her be proud of what she's doing or what she's doing or what she's doing wrong. I think that in that sense the message delivered by MP Lucin, I say, agreeing with MP Bagaric, is the best principle, better than the principle of naked reciprocity. As I was saying at the outset, a new action plan follows us, which will in some ways respect the new reality of what we have to do. I promise you that we will carefully read the phonogram of this session and all the suggestions put forward especially that here are the days we try to install in the proposal for an action plan and propose it to the Government. And we finally received a proposal from the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities to have the Government of the Republic of Croatia be obliged to conclude, so that it is responsible to submit its report on the implementation of the Action Plan. I say the second one will be updated for the implementation of this constitutional law to the committee itself. So, not only through the Parliament as a whole, what we will be pleased to do in the belief that this will also increase the degree of efficiency of our work as a whole. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63960	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 15.0 hours with a joint discussion on the report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2008 with a proposal for an annual implementation plan for the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63961	We move to the 2009 report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the needs of national minorities. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The 2009 report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the needs of national minorities is accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by most votes, 73 votes in favour, 28 abstentions and 2 against. The Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to provide the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities with the Report on the implementation of the Action Plan for the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. During the debate, the government's representative accepted this conclusion. I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal was accepted by the majority of votes, 93 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and nothing against. The SDP representative club proposed to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the purposes of national minorities is taken into account. As already accepted then this proposal is not an actual one. Thank you very much, let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63962	We're continuing the afternoon session, with not too much auditorium. As announced, we are uniting the 2nd and 3rd points, which is - - Report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2008 - Proposal for an annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2010 The Government submitted this report on the basis of Article 33. The law on official statistics. The Government also submitted this proposal on the basis of Article 31. The law on official statistics. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance, the State Budget, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Fisheries and Rural Development, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Dear Ivana Mrkonjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63963	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me just briefly present to you a report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2008, and a proposal for the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2010. In accordance with the Law on Official Statistics, the State Statistics Institute produced a report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2008, and a proposal for an annual implementation plan for the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2010. State Department of Statistics, as chief holder,... and the co-ordinator of the official statistics system of the Republic of Croatia coordinated the preparation of those programming documents. [[You don't understand.]] Following the agreement of the parts of the report and the annual implementation plan of all the holders of official statistics, the State Statistics Office submitted the pooled documents to the holders of official statistics and to the statistical advisory committees. There are 15 statistical advisory committees for individual statistical areas with over 200 members, who are representatives of users of official statistics data, such as public authorities, chambers, institutes, trade unions and NGOs. On the basis of the opinions received, the State Statistics Office completed the documents and submitted them to the opinion of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Croatia, which adopted the documents in question at the meeting held on 3 February 2010. Unfortunately, the procedure for the adoption of the report and the annual implementation plan could not be implemented in a timely manner for several reasons. The amendments to the Law on Official Statistics have increased the number of members of the Statistical Council and is part of the members of the Statistical Council appointed in December 2009. Furthermore, during the production of documents, it was found that no adequate means were provided for the implementation of all planned statistical activities from the part-round work of the Croatian Institute of Public Health. It was therefore necessary to amend the annual implementation plan in that part and to bring it into line with the available financial resources, which caused the recurrence of the part of the procedure. Since the process is quite complex, the whole process has been delayed. It is obvious that the complexity of the process of drawing up those documents leads to a delay in their adoption and that the practice so far needs to be changed. In this respect, the 2009 report process will be separated at a certain point from the 2011 annual implementation plan. So far, these documents have been produced, referred to in the procedure and brought at the same time, because the procedures are partly parallel. However, the report can be completed significantly earlier than the annual implementation plan, as the process is a bit simpler, so that it can be referred to the adoption procedure sooner. As regards the annual implementation plan, it is possible to shorten the process if all participants in the process speed up the performance of their tasks, which is only partly affected by the State Statistics Office. And now for the 2008 summary of the report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia. The 2008 Annual Implementation Plan for Statistical Activities envisioned the implementation of 271 statistical research, and 79 other statistical activities. Under other statistical activities we include projects and professional methodological works. 16 official statistics holders participated in the implementation of the annual statistical implementation plan with the National Statistics Institute. All planned research has been conducted in full, except for a small number of exceptions listed in the report. Most of the statistical activities in 2008 were conducted by the State Statistics Institute. It is 160 statistical research and 61 projects, and professional methodological work in annual and multi-annual design dynamics. The State Statistics Office planned to carry out those activities, 98 million 332 thousand and 546 kuna, and spent 86 million 427 thousand 944 kuna. Proposal for an annual statistical plan for the Republic of Croatia for 2010. The proposal for an annual statistical implementation plan for 2010 provides for the implementation of 286 regular statistical surveys, and 72 other statistical activities. Other statistical activities require prominent development projects aimed at harmonising Croatian statistics with European Union statistics. The proposal for an annual implementation plan for 2010 will carry out 175 statistical surveys and 56 other statistical activities. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The law on official statistics by the annual implementation plan also provides for a review of the total resources required from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. The total funding from the state budget is required by the State Statistics Office for the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the annual implementation plan amounted to 127 million and 863 kuna, of which the share of EU assistance is 13 million 979 thousand 262 kuna and foreign donations 10 million 981 thousand 757 kuna. I note that in the amendments and additions to the Law on Official Statistics, statisticians in the offices of the state administration are integrated into the structural structure of the State Statistics Institute as of 1 January 2010, so that in the budget of the State Statistics Office for 2010 the funds have been increased accordingly. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63964	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. Dear Representative Buterin, Vesna Buterin, on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63965	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, fellow Members and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2010, which is fully supported by the Croatian Democratic Community club. According to the Official Statistics Act, the Annual Implementation Plan shall be adopted for each year covered by the Statistical Activity Programme. In the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2010, the same structure of EUROSTAT documents was used to establish the degree of compliance of the official statistics of the Republic of Croatia with the requirements of the EU. The annual implementation plan of the 2010 statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia provides for the implementation of 286 regular statistical surveys and 72 other statistical activities related to expert and methodological works and development projects aimed at harmonising Croatia's statistics with EU statistics. The total funding needed for the implementation of the 2010 Annual Implementation Plan will be provided from the state budget, amounting to 127 million 863 kuna, of which the share of EU assistance is 13.9 million kuna and foreign gifts 10 million 981 thousand 757 kuna. The annual implementation plan for the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2010 is a continuation of compliance with EU standards, and I stress once again that the HDZ club will fully support it. The HDZ Club also supports the 2008 report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan for Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia. This implementation plan provides for the implementation of 271 statistical research and 79 projects in 17 authorised bodies. All planned research has been conducted in full except for 27 research by the Croatian Institute of Public Health, which was the deadline for first results on 30 June 2009 and thereafter. In addition, there are 6 studies in the field of cultural statistics and 1 in the field of social care carried out over a multi-annual period and are therefore not the subject of this report although they are listed in the Annual Implementation Plan for 2008. Projects are mainly carried out over a multi-annual period and cannot be combined with the implementation in one year. Most of the statistical activities are carried out by the State Statistics Institute i.e. 160 statistical research and 61 projects and expert methodological work in the annual and multi-annual dynamics of production. The budget of the State Statistics Institute in 2008 amounted to just over 98 million kuna. Out of that amount at the source of funding, general income and receipts were planned 81 million 270 thousand kuna, aid and donations 16 million 832 thousand 546 kuna, own income 223,000 kuna. The financial plan for 2008 The Institute of Statistics carried out through 6 programmes, through activities and ongoing and capital projects with budgetary expenditures worked out in accordance with the prescribed programme and economic classification, in a timely and timely manner, by paying through the State Treasury system. Once again at the end of my presentation, I would like to emphasise that the HDZ Club fully supports the 2008 Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63966	Thank you. It is next to the HNS-HSU club, the esteemed representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63967	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS-HSU Club will support these 2 reports, but we have a few questions and we would like to make it clear during the debate especially in your final address to hear the answers to these questions. First of all, we want to say that today in the 21st century there is no activity whose development plan would be based on some other data but on data from exactly statistical institutions. For this reason, it is very important that our statistics are accurate, that our statistics are comprehensive and that we are made available in good time to all users. It's the same in the area of the economy, in the area of education, health care, tourism, transport whatever you want. Always, it is clear that accurate and timely data are needed based on which we can plan to develop each sector of society. So I have to take this opportunity to point out one piece of information that surprised me a little bit, and in an awkward sense, it doesn't apply to the State Department, but it does refer to some units of local and regional self-government. Recently, an ambassador told me that he had been invited to a county. The topic was economic development, and he expected that by clicking on the websites of both the county and the city, he would receive basic data related to economic factors from which he would be able to prepare for exposure and from which he would be able to prepare clearly for the owners in his country to invest in Croatia. He says, unfortunately, on the pages of that county and that city, I haven't found anything I expected. Therefore, I think it is good here to realize that we can and should use all the data available to us much more effectively, that we should clearly have one regional approach and local approach so that we can always inform investors or potential investors in the most correct way about their opportunities, that is, our advantages. One where we would really like to hear the answers, and if this debate were to continue what we said last year, that would be the following: namely, when we amend and supplement the Law on Official Statistics, if I'm not mistaken, that's what that law was called, then we set ourselves some goals. The first goal is to take over from 1 January of this year, that officials and deputies from the Office of State Administrations in the counties will be taken over. We at the HNS-HSU Club are wondering if it's been done, whether it's been a problem or if there's still a problem? Secondly, we were then amending the law and said that the number of members of the statistical council would increase from 13 to 15 because we were all agreed that the economic operators, i.e. the Chamber of Commerce and the Ministry of Economy should have their own members in this Council, and we were interested in whether and how much these members' contributions were made in terms of searching for additional economic data which would clearly help in the segment of investment to increase export production, etc. Third, it was found that all administrative data sources could be used to carry out official statistics. Is that so, is the state institute networked, do you have any difficulties? If not, it is our job to help you overcome any difficulties. And fourthly, it was said that the State Bureau of Statistics and other holders of official statistics under the terms of a certain law would be able to provide individual statistics without an identifier concerning certain provisions of the Law on confidentiality and the protection of statistics, we are interested in whether there were difficulties or not. Furthermore, the fifth question concerns preparation related to the census. For two years we have been talking about this, next year there is a list, we are interested in whether all the preparations have been made, whether there are difficulties and what it is for us to do to the Croatian Parliament if the difficulty is to help you solve these difficulties. And finally the last question, sixth question. According to a regulation on the internal organisation of the State Statistics Office, it is provided that the Office has an indicative of 461 employees, an official, or a substitute to be employed, indefinitely. Given the fact that more and more quality IT equipment is being obtained, since it is trying to network the State Institute to make it easier to access data, whether it was thinking in the sense that a certain rationalisation was being carried out here, to reduce the number of employees, given the situation we have in Croatia in relation to the State budget. Here, that would be our questions, we would ask clear answers so that we could clearly be asked before the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63968	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63969	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, my colleagues and my colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State. It is before us, in fact two points of the agenda are before us, so the 2008 report and the 2011 activity plan. It is certainly in 2011 that there is one of the most demanding, most extensive businesses conducted by the State Statistics Institute, which is the census. However, in one of the previous discussions several months ago, the State Statistics Institute made a small diversion when it estimated the population census costs almost twice as much as the Government's assessment of implementing that famous referendum on the Labour Law. However, by adopting the 2011 budget, we have learned what the right amount and the right amount and the referendum is, we can say that this assessment of the population census costs was real. The 2011 census will certainly provide accurate data on the population and we will find out a new number of false or at least fictitious voters in our cities, municipalities and counties. So in 2011, everything is likely to get a good census and we'll have a bad list of voters. With some critical remarks to be made by colleagues in the individual debate, the SDP Club will support the 2008 Report and the 2011 Activity Plan. What needs to be said is that 2011 is an election year and that statistics in particular regarding the economy will serve political parties as an argument of what is good for them if they are ruling, or that it is not good for the opposition. And right away, it's not a problem with statisticians, it's a problem with politicians. In fact, some interpretations of statistical indicators give right to those who say that statistics are an incorrect sum of accurate data. The request of the State Statistics Institute is that it be an independent professional institution that will not be subject to daily political and other pressures, that the data it publishes be timely, that they be accurate, that they do not give up to either and the other, and that politicians are left with one correct way of not actually bringing statistics into a part called creative statistics. As every year these points come to the agenda and we discuss them more in principle, so I will stop in that sense. We call on the State Statistics Institute to continue working, to keep this work professional, politically independent, not subject to the doubts of various political factors, not to be subjected to pressures such as some other institutions, is not a problem with statistics, the problem is with politicians. And the SDP Club will contribute by supporting these reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63970	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate, the first in line is the distinguished representative of the Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63971	NOTING the longer statistics I simply review the situation of things and statistics is decisive when we make some, and especially key decisions without the established state of things we cannot manage well. Therefore, statistics other than numerical, quantitative indicators also have their express or primarily qualitative values. I just want to warn you of one narrow and small area within statistics, that's education and science. Tragedy is not only for our country but also for the educational scientific regional force that we do not have adequate data and that we are nowhere in European reviews, in world reviews, in OECD reviews, in everything we should be in and there is a section in Croatia that remains empty. It's something that seems political to me, but equally substantially, it's what builds itself is about, very sad. The more we warned, Mrs Mrkonjic was with us at the 2005 and 2006 negotiations, on the one hand admitted the error, on the other hand got pucks and on the third hand got money to bring statistics into line with EUROSTAT in education and science. So, from the end of 2005 to the end of 2010 is a terrible long period and we were able to change 2,3.4 times the relevant standards and introduce Croatia into the order of those countries that show themselves to different reviews. Not to mention countries that, by our understanding, are much lower developed than us who manage to make their own data. Let's just compare ourselves to the candidate who started the negotiations at the same time as we did. They are in the vast majority of the exams I've seen in the last two, three years. So, Croatia is gone. And therefore, of course, I welcome the report as much as it is credible and how it speaks about the introduction of EUROSTAT into more and more areas. I strongly criticise that in the field of education and science shifts occur terribly slowly or too slowly, with a snail step. And I'm just expressing my desire and the need to have as exact statistics as possible and to have the most rapidly introduced EUROSTAT measures. I'll tell you just one piece of information, just one illustration of the situation we're in. We cannot establish an exact number of students and the exact number of teachers in higher education, because the ministry has one data most often, and the Statistical Office has other data. The Bureau of Statistics has less of this data. The Iron Flego teaches, for example. in Zagreb, then teaches in Split and then let's say lectures in Osijek, for example. And then the Bureau of Statistics, according to the reports, the facility thinks we have three teachers. By the name of the ministry knows that there's a person on the payroll and there's a difference happening to you, the more often the fair we show something called a full time-valuer, i.e. Full-time equivalent. Mine's like a regular professor for six hours a week. And it can happen that I teach 2 hours in Zagreb, 2 hours in Split, 2 hours in Osijek and in fact there is one person. The institution has full time value as three persons, the ministry has one person, and if we are already showing full time, we would have to show the so-called. head count i.e. At the same time, the amount of obligations that have been fulfilled for full-time and the amount of people who carry out all these expensive jobs. Only then will we know the true state of affairs. It is a EUROSTAT measure and a EUROSTAT standard. Therefore, we will not be against the report but we ask that euro standards be introduced as soon as possible, especially this sensitive area, such as education and science, and I ask you to take this much more seriously into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63972	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63973	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, I'm going to stand here for a little bit in defense and the State Department. You'll see colleague Flego why I've replicated to you. Namely, I'm recently connected to a program that I run, it's 6 projects, tried to get a little into Crosby's database and see how many of our colleagues after publishing work update, input data. Unfortunately, that database is such that it's a little sad, sad to see. Of course, if the government wants to extract and do statistics from this, you will find it very difficult to do so. It's my opinion that the direct culprit is the Ministry of Science, because every year they do the evaluation of our projects. If we haven't even entered the data on what results we've received, which we've received, and they're still funding us instead of sanctioning those who don't, we have to really be correct, so let's say that there are a lot of elements that have to work to make the system right and give results. So I'm saying I agree that there is no such data, but we have to be honest and say that a part of the scientists, unfortunately, and the ministry also bear their responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63974	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of the Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63975	Dear Doric, thank you for touching this area I was talking about, which I find very sensitive and terribly complex. There are people from two institutions sitting here, so I addressed them to my remarks. For example. Every year, all those who have projects report on what they have published in the last year. Those reports are in electronic format. This electronic format shall be transferred from one institution to another if necessary. Finally every 5 years in higher education and science there is an institute of re-election. So every 5 years a complete bibliography must be shown, and that bibliography that has been done over the last 5 years has been isolated. And we don't have any problems if it's in electronic format. He goes from one facility to another. Of course, cooperation is desirable among all those involved in this type of activity. And now who will be the bearer of this cooperation is still a technical job that we wouldn't be discussing in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63976	Thank you. Dear Representative Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. And distinguished representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63977	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We are now discussing the 2008 report before the end of 2010. The question arises how relevant it is if we know that the crisis has hit us with its full intensity. Here's a recent round in 2008 and we are now at the end of 2010 discussing something that happened in 2008. The truth works if you look at this report on page one that the government released it in the procedure in July 2010, the State Statistics Office made the report in January 2010 so it took him all year to process 2008. I don't doubt many data are processed inside, very quality data, relevant data but the question is how quickly they can be used to predict some trends, some decisions, especially in dynamic areas such as the economy. There should be a quicker response, and I don't know probably partial reports exist on the internet those three-months. I've had a chance to dig into it myself, it's so deep buried in the web that you need to be quite an expert to get to them. And secondly, the question arises as to how close we are in our statistical reports to or from EUROSTAT. I am not sure that we have made some very big shifts, and the fact is that full harmonisation with EUROSTAT's methodology is one of the very important preconditions that many things appear transparently and allow potential investors to facilitate their decisions regarding possible investments in the Republic of Croatia. In any case, I support the work of the State Statistics Institute, noting that it should really step up the harmonisation efforts with EUROSTAT's methodology, that this should be completed in due course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63978	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the HDSSB club for five minutes, Honorary Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63979	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Gentlemen of the Department of Statistics. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, it is true that it is an interesting date for this debate and date for 2008, and here it is exactly the end of about 2010, so the question is how current is actually our debate on the data contained in this report. I would only in the final word on behalf of the club refer to some of the things that are important, which or in which it is involved, will be included by the State Statistics Institute, which is a census in 2011. Namely, the census that will be made next year in the spring will not be accurate. I'm warning the gentlemen of the State Statistics Office, but the rest of you, both MPs and Madam Representatives, that there are certain legal provisions that will lead to some confusion and misunderstanding in the census. Under the Foreign Law, Article 2, foreigners are also considered to be Croats without Croatian citizenship. Because of this provision, we don't even know how many Croats are among the thousands, not to mention tens of thousands, there are over 20 thousand, applications for admission to Croatian citizenship. The current law on residence and residence of citizens is merely a simple copy of the Yugoslav Law on Records. Thus, the Law on residence and residence of citizens of the Republic of Croatia is entirely identical to the law applicable to the SR of Croatia and Yugoslavia, respectively. This law allows someone of their own interest to report residence and residence. Confuse shall also be contributed by the MUP Regulation, which shall, of all those who carry out the card and report the residence as owners of houses or apartments or as tenants who own the house or apartment. Many are therefore forced to register their residence fictitiously because the most fashionable does not want to apply them to his home address. Based on the incorrect data resulting from the current Law on residence and residence of citizens, in some cities in the local administration, people are selected by the votes of those who do not live here in the Republic of Croatia or even persons, so council members in certain municipalities and cities that do not live in the Republic of Croatia, and act as council members in certain municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia. We have an example of the Oven, an example of Kistanja, and so on. I say I warn, whether it's timely or not, because the Law on residence and residence is still somehow beyond the scope of the debate in the parliamentary benches, there is no change in that law, and there will be this kind of difficulty and confusion in the census. I hope that, at the initiative of the State Statistics Institute, this will be settled in due time in order for the census to be valid, in order to obtain accurate data from the State Statistics Institute regarding the census and everything that goes with the census. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63980	Thank you. And on behalf of the promoter, esteemed Ivana Mrkonjic, State Secretary and Director at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63981	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Just a few brief remarks. The first is related first to the professional activity of the State Statistics Institute and also to its political independence. I would remind you all here that at the end of last year chapter 18 was closed. Statistics, which recognises professional action under one and at European Union level, are high professional criteria for the operation of the State Statistics Institute and, in any case, the full political independence of this institution. And I would also remind you that the work of the State Statistics Institute also praised EUROSTAT in his letter a few days ago. And I would also like to thank Mr. Flegi, Representative Flegi and Mr. Doric for paying attention to the fact that in some parts of our education, science also needs further data harmonisation. And I would like to point out that here, among other things, it is also about the responsibility of institutions operating in the field of higher education and science, so please, and I hope that you are aware that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has put together drafts of three Laws on Science, Higher Education and University which we hope soon to send to the government's procedure, and I hope that you will recognize some of the measures there which will, in particular, address the issue of the burden of teachers in higher education institutions and according to the norm, according to the collective agreement, and then we will have beautiful statistics afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63982	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u63983	Report on the implementation of the 2008 Annual Implementation Plan for the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by most votes, 100 votes for, 3 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64006	Moving to point 4. - Report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2009 and the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2009 Proposer: Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency Croatia's Energy Regulatory Agency submitted this Report on the basis of Article 25. Law on energy regulation. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Economy. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Daniel Zhamboki, President of the Governing Council. Excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64007	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is an honor and pleasure to welcome you in front of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and in the shortest lines to introduce you to the content of the annual Report of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency below HERE for 2009. According to the Law on Energy Activity Regulation, HERA is required to submit once a year to the Croatian Assembly a report on its work, and in particular on observations relevant to the development of the energy market and public services in the energy sector, an analysis of the energy sector, on the results of monitoring the implementation of the energy subject's obligation referred to in Article 10(2). Law on energy regulation and implementation of the HERE budget for the previous year. Content of the HERE Report is structured according to the recommendations of the RGA Association of National Regulatory Authorities for Electricity and Gas of the Member States of the European Union whose HERA is also a member of the observer status. Reports by all national, energy and regulatory authorities of the Member States of the European Union can be seen via the website of that association. During 2009, 30 meetings of the HERE Governing Council were held to discuss a total of 425 agenda points. All decisions of the Governing Council shall be regularly published on the HERE website which has recorded 78281 visits in the last year during which it has been accessed on 414113 pages. During 2009, a total of 90 complaints, objections and representations of energy customers were received in HERA, which were made by appropriate decisions. In the area of electricity during 2009, the HERE activities were mainly focused on monitoring, first of all, the rules on the management and distribution of the capacity of the combined lines, and the compliance of the regime was allocated to the European Community Regulation. 1228/2003 and corresponding guidelines. In this respect, HERA also granted its consent to HEP, the transmission system operator, to the new Regulations on the allocation and use of cross-border transmission facilities. Then, to the collection and processing of data relating to the activities of energy subjects for the purpose of monitoring the separation of energy activities and the quality of energy operators services. Next issue and extension of 14 permits to carry out energy activities, issue 12 solutions on obtaining the status of a privileged electricity producer and resolving a total of 105 items, objections and complaints from customers on the work of energy operators. In 2009, HERA adopted amendments and additions to the methodology for the provision of electricity balancing services in the electricity system. In the context of cooperation with the ministries and competent inspections, HERA submitted an opinion in 2009 on a proposal to change the amount of tariff items in the tariff system for electricity production with the exception of privileged customers without the level of tariff items and on a proposal for a Regulation amending the Regulation on compensation for the promotion of the production of electricity from renewable sources and cogeneration. The HERE activities in the gas sector during 2009 were mainly focused on the production and adoption of changes and addition of the natural gas supply tariff system with the exception of privileged customers without the level of tariff items, establishing a proposal for a regulation on the organisation of the natural gas market, establishing a proposal for a network rules of the natural gas distribution system, making the rules on the compensation for the connection to the gas distribution or transport system and increasing the capacity of the connection, establishing a methodology for the provision of natural gas balancing services in the gas system, giving an opinion on the proposal for general conditions for natural gas supply, giving an opinion on the proposal for a Regulation amending the Regulation on natural gas security. To give an opinion on the proposal for a level of tariff items for the activity and transport of natural gas one opinion, the storage of natural gas one opinion, the production of a proposal for a level of tariff items for the activity and supply of gas 76 proposals, the issuing of 19 permits for carrying out energy activities, one authorisation of which is issued for the production of gas, supply and sale of natural gas from its own production, supply of gas and the organisation of the gas market, and 8 gas distribution permits and 7 gas supply permits. Extending 11 permits to carry out the energy activity of gas distribution and transfer 7 permits to carry out energy activities of which 4 gas distribution permits and 3 gas supply permits. The activities of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency in the oil and oil products sector during 2009 were as follows: the issue of 50 permits to carry out energy activities from which one licence was issued for the transport of petroleum products to products and other forms of transport. 35 permits for the transport of oil, petroleum products and biofuels by road. 5 permits for storage of oil and petroleum products. 4 licenses to trade on large oil derivatives. 4 licenses for trade in high-integrated petroleum gas and one permit for trading, intermediation and representation on the energy market. The activities were an extension of 55 permits to carry out energy activities, one authorisation for the transport of petroleum products to products and other forms of transport. 44 permits for the transport of oil, oil derivatives and biofuels by road, 4 permits for the storage of oil and petroleum products and six permits for trade in large oil products. During 2009, HERA issued 9, extended one, and transferred three permits to carry out energy activities of heat production, heat energy distribution and heat supply. HERA carried out supervision of the application of the tariff system and the amount of tariff items in all energy entities for the production, distribution and supply of thermal energy in the Republic of Croatia during 2009. The findings and controls of the application of the tariff system of the tariff items were adopted opinions published on the HERA website. Since its establishment in 2005, HERA has achieved active international co-operation with both country regulators in the region and with the regulators of the Member States of the European Union, most of the cooperation takes place through membership in European-level regulatory bodies associations, i.e. the level of European regions, and the work of expert working groups of these associations. In the context of international cooperation in 2009 there is a particular need to highlight the participation of HERA in the work of the regulatory committee of the energy community of the Southeast European countries. HERA is an observer at the European Association of Regulators for Electricity and Gas, and its working groups, whose meetings were attended by its representatives, HERA representatives participated in the work of Firentin's Electricity and Madrid's Gas Forum, one of the most important meetings in Europe to discuss the regulation of the energy sector and the energy market. HERA has participated in the work of the Mediterranean Association of Regulators for Electricity and Gas, and its representatives are active members of permanent working groups on institutional issues on electricity, gas, renewable energy, environment and energy efficiency. Since the establishment of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, representatives of HERA are members of permanent committees for issuing licences, tariffs, and committees of presidents, as well as working groups for legal regulation and gas of the Association of Regional Energy Regulators of HERA. It is extremely important for HERA to adopt a third package of European Union energy regulations in July 2009 which entered into force on 3 September 2009, and... This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its [[You don't understand.]] The main features of the third package are: greater role and powers for the regulatory bodies of individual countries, the establishment of a European network of transmission system operators for electricity and natural gas, increased requirements for the separation of transmission system operators, consumer protection and the establishment and establishment of an Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators at European level. In accordance with the third package, HERA should also have the following competences: fixing or granting tariffs for... the distribution or their methodologies, the supervision and assessment of the investment plans of transmission system operators, the monitoring of the level of visibility of wholesale gas prices, and the effectiveness of opening up the market and competition at the level of wholesale and retail sales, and the possibility of imposing effective and appropriate penalties on energy operators which do not comply with the rules. [[You don't understand.]] It is therefore very important, very important that the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency continues to strengthen administrative, professional and organisational capacities, in order to carry out its obligations more effectively and more clearly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64008	Thank you. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? Yeah. Dear Ivan Bubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64009	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. Just for a little while. The Government of the Republic of Croatia notes to us the report by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency as well as the implementation of its budget for... a year, which has been written to the President of the Parliament by letter of 13 October this year. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64010	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We're going to a club debate first. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Honorable Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64011	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Hera's chairman. Here we have heard a lot, but let us reiterate what is most important on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, which will, of course, accept this report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2009. The Law on Energy Regulatory Activities prescribed that the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, short-listed and known as HERA, once a year submits a report to the Croatian Parliament on its work, and in particular on the processes relevant for the development of the energy market, public services in the energy sector, sector analysis, and the achievement of the HERA budget for the previous year. This is exactly what we received in accordance with the said and envisaged law, and first a few words on the 2009 report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. It is clear that the fundamental objectives of regulation of energy activities in general are to ensure objectivity, visibility, impartiality in the pursuit of energy activities, further concerns about the implementation of the principle, regulated access to the network system, the adoption of methodologies for establishing tariff items, tariff systems, the establishment of an efficient energy market and competition, and the protection of energy customers and energy operators. They all point to us on HERA's website. Further promotion is promoted by regulation of energy activity, efficient and rational use of energy entrepreneurship, investment in the energy sector, which has been mentioned in particular lately, and of course always the current protection of the environment. We have seen from this report that it contains a whole series of information, a review of major developments in the energy market, the state of regulated energy activities, the development of the electricity market, natural gas, biofuels, oil and oil derivatives in the Republic of Croatia. It gives us an overview of the security of supply of electricity and natural gas, as well as how to regulate the public service obligations of electricity and natural gas supply. This report also provides a presentation of the most significant activities of HERA in doing the prescribed jobs that we have heard more about than the chairman of HERA's administration. This report also shows that HERA performs a whole range of jobs, of which I will list only a few of the most important, such as giving an opinion to the Ministry on the tariff system for the production of electricity from renewable energy sources and cogeneration, compensation for the promotion of renewable sources and cogeneration and compensation for inherited costs. Furthermore, giving the Ministry’s opinion on the proposal for an amount of compensation for the organisation of the electricity market, supervision of the application of all tariff systems and prescribed fees, giving an opinion to the Ministry on general conditions for energy supply, etc., etc. Which is all contained in this quite extensive and extensive report. In particular, this report draws attention to the security of supply and the further opening of market energy and the need to take care of the construction of new energy facilities for the production of electricity, storage capacity of natural gas, oil and oil derivatives, the terminals for ingested natural gas, transmission systems and new supply routes, and to the construction of new transmission energy capacities which connect RH transmission systems with neighbouring countries' transmission systems create basic conditions for developing a competitive energy market and improving energy security in the Republic of Croatia and the region. From this we see that indeed all these activities and jobs dealing with HERA today in Croatia, both in Europe and in the world, are extremely relevant and this gives additional importance to HERA itself and their work. It is extremely important, as we heard, and significant action by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency through the adoption of the third EU energy regulation package in July 2009, which took effect on 3 September 2009, which has been in force since 3 March 2011. Finally, it should be said that Chapter 15 of the accession negotiations of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union is provisionally closed. - Energy. And a few words about this second part of the agenda item on the implementation of the 2009 HERA budget. Also, the praises and results they have achieved, which are visible from the difference in income and expenditure. So we see that the total revenues in 2009 amounted to €26.5 million and 6% are higher than the revenues in 2008. Compared to the planned revenues in 2009, HERA achieved a positive deviation of not less than 11%, i.e. total revenues are higher than planned for more than 2.5 million kuna. The derogation from the plan is the result of higher revenues from sales of goods and services achieved in the previous year by energy operators from carrying out the energy activities shown in their financial statements for the previous 2008 year. Also, in the structure of the total income of HERA in 2009, the most significant revenues account for 94% of total revenues, which is precisely the compensation for carrying out the energy activity paid by energy entities of 0.06%. When compared to the total expenditure in 2009 of 15 million 608 thousands which are less than expenditure in 2008 by 11% we get a greater difference in the surplus income of almost 11 million kuna or 45% compared to the 2008 achievement. In addition to the content and scope of this report, of course and the satisfaction of the financial result shown from the implementation of the 2009 HERA budget, I repeat in the end that the HDZ Club will accept the Hera Work Report for 2009 and the achievement of the HERA budget for 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64012	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, the esteemed representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64013	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, President of the Board of Directors, colleagues and colleagues. By reading this report that we at the HNS-HSU club can say that one small step has been made, however, it is exactly the same as the report that we had been able to read for 2008, and given all those events that were present in HERA and that followed HERA in the near history of watching the entire energy sector definitely the actions that are working on this energy sector do not have the opportunity and it is really irresponsible to support the actions that are working on the energy sector. Well, starting by the State's Attorney's Office, definitely not, not to mention the developmental sense, because I'll talk about it later. But in any case, we at the HNS-HSU club cannot support and we do not support what the responsible are doing to the complete organisation of the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia. And in this context HERA submits this 2009 report to us. Although the report, which was conducted at a time when a board of directors led this agency, happened new at one point, but the fact is that we do not have any significant shifts in the energy sector. That's a fact. As a confirmation of this fact, it is enough to shed something that should be particularly important when we read this report, which is Chapter 7. – Security of supply and 8. - Obligation of public service. The point of regulatory agencies is that they have the ability to regulate the market, the purpose of regulatory agencies is to protect Croatian consumers from the negative impact of the market and the purpose of regulatory agencies is to base us on monitoring the developments in each market to give guidance. The Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is finally the Agency established by the Croatian Parliament, and the Croatian Regulatory Agency has the obligation to report to the Croatian Parliament. In this way, the Croatian Regulatory Agency also has the opportunity to give its opinion to representatives in the Croatian Parliament, which is an expert opinion, which are possible developments, which are areas to be intervened on, which are areas to be affected, what are areas to be particularly potentiated and what are the anomalies that need to be corrected. Reading this report whether we have an opportunity or whether any of you colleagues and colleagues have any new knowledge other than those we had last year. When comparing the 2008 report and this for 2009, in the security of supply chapter, all the same, title, sentences, data, exactly the same. The 2008 report said that HEP would carry out some activities, among other things stating what these activities were, and this also for 2009 also states which activities the HEP is carrying out and comparing both 2008 and 2009 are exactly the same. One thing that has changed is that in the cogeneration van of the gas plant at the location of the thermal power plant Zagreb that was put into the test engine in 2008 it was written that the construction for the Sisak Termo power plant will be completed, for 2008, it is done to create a project... for the preparation and arrangement of equipment, in the 2009 Report on the same Termopower plant, that the project continued to be prepared during 2009. So in 2008, it was a project documentation and equipment arrangements, and in 2009 it continued to work on project preparation. The Slavonia thermal power plant, exactly the same as last year. Lastly, activities continued to revitalise several hydropower plants, which will provide up to 130 megawatts of additional production capacity by 2011, are the same as reported in the 2008 report. With the 2008 report on 2010 here, it says 2011. In other words, simply put, status quo. When we talk about these energy projects, we have heard these days when we adopt the State budget, we hear almost every day a principle of willingness to launch economic activity through investment and energy in this country, which is wonderful and excellent, and we all support it and we all support it. However, reading these 2008 and 2009 reports in terms of preparation is a status quo. And I'm now asking what's gonna happen at once overnight to make something more important happen, what? Could such complex facilities be prepared overnight in terms of the whole investment. If an investment will be launched in such a way as the Lesce Hydropower Plant was launched, which with 64m euros suddenly came to twice the amount, then certainly each of us, we are all against such an investment. In fact, I am saying all of this for a reason because we believe in the Club of the People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retirement that the task among other Croatian HERA is to give the representatives of the Croatian Parliament this information, but unambiguously clear but not in a way that prescribes reports from previous years and changes only years. Furthermore, security of natural gas supply. The 2008 report said it was working on a project by the Adriatic-Ionian gas pipeline. It said that the preparation of research papers preceding the full feasibility study is ongoing and the establishment of an inter-state commission is ongoing, etc. In the 2009 report, there is no word on the Adriatic-Ionian gas pipeline, so does this mean that it has given up, that it is not working, that it has been misjudged, it is simply not clear to me. Because in the 2009 report, we have exactly who, which is why, even the dates, there is nothing in 2009. It is clear to me that this report is difficult or almost impossible and ultimately even fatal to enter into the problem of gas supply on the domestic market and also related to contracts signed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with MOL and where it has undertaken certain obligations in the transmission of gas business from the INA to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is also known that the extent of this move is between 2 billion and 3 billion damages for the Republic of Croatia, and it is known that negotiations between the Croatian government and MOL have been present for the last time, but which is final, as well as how this will ultimately reflect on Croatian consumers, we do not have that information. I repeat, it is certain that for the agency to enter the area, especially for the Agency's Administrative Board, and taught by the recent experience, a very determined reaction of the Republic of Croatia when HERA tried to do its job, which is why it was established that it was for HERA management quite devastating. However, our Croatian public and us in the Croatian Parliament are certainly interested in what is the future and what is the future of security of gas supply. The security of oil supply and oil derivatives is also exactly the same. One newspaper is between the 2008 and 2009 reports that we formed a Croatian agency for mandatory oil and oil products, that we took over the commitments undertaken by other EU member states and that we know this from the daily press. Chapter 8 – Public service obligations are virtually identical and the text section is exactly the same report as we had the opportunity to read for 2008, which in other words confirms the fact that there are no significant shifts in the energy market, which says that all the announcements that we have heard and are declarative in nature, because there are some significant shifts then quite certainly in this 2009 report would include certain shifts in relation to the 2008 report. And finally, the energy sector is a development lever especially at the moment where state finances are located and the total economy of our country is found it is a common known fact, the general knowledge that domestic production is at all 68% of our total needs, but reading this report by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is the only conclusion that in this area, except for the announcements other than the PowerPoint presentation of strong and more quality shifts. We at the HNS Club have no reason not to accept this report, because the report found that nothing was done, that everything was still the same. But for that very reason, we will leave it to all the club members to decide whether or not they will support it according to their own personal attitude, and my personal position as a sign of protest should not support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64014	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64015	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of HERA. We have before us an opportunity or an opportunity to discuss the annual HERA report for 2009 on which the tasks and roles of the Agency's structures, presentations, graphics in all those segments covering the energy market are taxed. But the most important part, which is part of the regulation control, which should be the basis for the roles in it, is not. The report is written as seminar work, with basic data, charts, structure without any information who even sits in that HERA who's inside, it's not even written, who's in the board, without data how many employees there are, without data how much surveillance is done, whether they're done or not. That points to what we've been saying here for a long time is that HERA de facto right now is the question of what it's doing. Is he watching the market? He's not watching. Does he regulate the price? He doesn't regulate the price. The only thing to pay HERA is the cost of regulation in the end is the price paid by Croatian citizens. After the resolution of the former Governing Council, however, four new councilors have been appointed, but there is no 5th which has not been appointed, and it is precisely a question, whether someone in the Energy Regulatory Agency is in charge of electricity or still HEP is acting as an older brother to the independent body, not to say a father or mother who cannot be asked anything from the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. There are now a whole series of things that have happened around HEP in the last year, things that affect and shock the Croatian public, but which will eventually pay Croatian citizens, and these are harmful contracts, it is a more expensive price for electricity. And now you see, there is a ministry that has commissioned a study meeting with a third set of European laws that all things should do with the Croatian energy sector. And that ministry chose between a state institution that would do it, a private one. She opted for private although by law they have the right to contract directly with such a state institution or institute. The study suggests that HEP be broken down into three companies so as not to facilitate production, distribution and general business of the Croatian electricity industry itself, which is among other things in major problems. And now that such a company is breaking into three companies on the example of Bulgaria, Slovakia, Romania, Hungary is the main conclusion that those who did so are privatised by electricity producers, HEP. That's what history says and that's what European experiences say. And the question arises, is the intensity of this government's privatisation of HEP especially in moments where the state doesn't have money? It is even speculated whether HEP privatisation is embedded in the HDZ and HSS coalition agreement. It's the same thing we'd like to get demoted on here. Gentlemen, we need to open up a debate. We need to talk about this. What I have to say is that we, the SDP club and I believe all the opposition clubs cannot and will not allow one such model of breaking and privatising Croatian electricity. The question arises as to what HERA has taken further to facilitate the integration of wind power plants into the transmission network. There has been a major slowdown in investments in the sector due to the simple position of HEP which does not allow connections to new wind power plants since it behaves above that Energy Regulatory Agency itself, and this is not surprising because the Energy Regulatory Agency neither determines the price nor regulates the market or controls. And then the question is whether HERA is actually acting as an independent regulatory body or under the great influence of HEP or those representing certain interests. Because let's remind ourselves of the TLM case. Whether HERA controlled the imports of electricity in the case of TLM Aluminium Mostar. It is obvious that domestic customers had to subsidize the company in another country. Croatian citizens subsidized a company in another country on the TLM case that pays a high voltage of 48 euros per megawatt hour, and aluminum 31 euros per megawatt hour. Whoever's covering the difference, that's the question. What's Hera doing? Also, a few weeks ago, we had before us the law, amendments and additions to the Energy Act, which put the full power of regulation of the heat supply market to units of local self-government or representative bodies of local self-government units to vote or to price setting. And in that debate with all relevant data and opinions of the profession, the associations of cities said the following, and now we're going to do it again. The third energy package of the European Union, which Croatia must respect, will enter into force in 2012. This package of HERA laws gives great powers and great powers to regulate the market, determine the price of electricity, gas, oil, anything that can be subdued under energy. And the question is whether HERA is currently humanely qualified for all these tasks that are being put before it, since it has never done anything like this before. And whoever says that, I do not say it, but says the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which in its letter, means to Croatian businessmen, has expressed doubts that the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency can be quality and timely manifested itself in determining the price of heat sent to them by the representative body. The decision was also against the association of cities, yet the law, amendments and additions of the Energy Act passed in this House. I will remind you that we have brought and have in our Constitution the European Charter of Local Self-Government which says that all laws concerning units of local self-government must pass the debate and must be adopted in consultation with local self-government units. That law didn't pass. Thus, the law was contrary to the Energy Development Strategy, with the Croatian economy and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce which reacted sharply to the adoption of such a law, with the association of cities and ultimately with the Constitution. And when the Croatian economy has expressed concern, the skepticism that HERA can perform these tasks that will only have to perform one year for units of local self-government in this way, so this law has been passed with a period of only one year, then we rightly wonder whether HERA will be able to carry out tasks that will put before it a third package of European Union energy laws, especially for the reason that so far the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency has not carried out two of its basic tasks. It's market surveillance and regulation. Gentlemen, on that part, you failed more than you failed. Is it your fault that you personally can't and I don't want to judge it, but the fact is that from all this, we can't accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64016	Thank you. We have a few corrections. The first is an incorrect quote, and the first is the distinguished representative Nevenka Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64017	Thank you, Vice President. It is not an accurate quote from counterpart Bernardic that there are no employees in the report. Buddy, you haven't read the report because if you did, you'd see it on page 5 of the report, I'll quote you, "In 2009. HERA hired seven new workers so that on 31 December 2009, there are 49 workers as well as on 1 August 2010." And these seven new employees are precisely to what you have spoken about in principle, to strengthen capacity for efficiency and expertise in order to comply with HERA legal obligations, but also with the obligations of this third package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64018	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64019	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague, Bernardic, argued in his statement that HEP privatisation was included in the HSS and HDZ Agreement. That's not true. The coalition agreement is public, it is also an integral part of the government programme of the Republic of Croatia. Comrade Bernardic, you should have read it and informed yourself and then you would have seen that no privatisation of HEP is mentioned there. It's simply not acceptable for the HSS or the HSS will agree to that. I also ask you nicely not to frighten citizens with something that isn't real and that doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64020	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. In what?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64021	Mr. Vice President, Article 209 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. So, I didn't make the assessment or the claim, but I asked the question, and I'm glad that here's my colleague Petyr answered that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64022	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and don't do that. It's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure simply. Dear Representative Ante Kulušić, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64023	Mr. Vice President, so my colleague Bernardic says that HEP has banned a connection to the network for some wind power plants. It is simply not true, but it is another one in a number of Croatian public deceptions. In fact, HEP encourages new investments in the branch, and as far as the privatisation of HEP and the Prime Minister himself has said, the Prime Minister, Mrs Kosor, said there is nothing to privatise HEP and that these are lies and lunches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64024	Thank you. We're going to discuss clubs. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Honorary Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64025	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen from the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and the Government, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the 2009 report, the HERE Report so short that I don't have to repeat these four long words, it's actually said that someone already said I'd use one of these people's languages, an supposedly independent nerdy report that he overwrites from year to year, changing only data like that of the Donoress school. And since you're already here so I don't forget, I'm going to ask you at the beginning of the immediate exposure when and how much will they collect the price of electricity next year? But before I start with the exposure, I must say that here what is the role of HERE is the independent work of HERE and what it is about me is more concerned about the energy situation of the Republic of Croatia, and then as it says in the introductory word in the Report, that in terms of security of supply, and further opening up of the energy market, it is necessary to take care of the construction of new energy facilities for the production of electricity and thermal energy of natural gas, oil and oil derivatives, terminals for ingested natural gas, transmission systems and new supply routes. And then this third package is mentioned which should take effect in 2012. Here, on several occasions, we discussed in the Croatian Parliament the energy strategy of the Republic of Croatia and I would say about the way where and how to go, and I still think that strategy, especially in terms of the growth of the energy capacities of the Republic of Croatia and the strategies, i.e. the concept of strategies and implementation, is not good. You see, we invested in reconstruction, so in reconstruction by building big money, building a large number of buildings in all areas and regions of the Republic of Croatia. I'm not going to talk about that eight-bit former subject from before noon, but I have to say it's about tens of thousands of objects. Shouldn't the Croatian Government and those in charge of this, then the experts in HEP, then HERE recommendations, be able to go in this direction so that each of these facilities has private houses, either apartments, residential buildings, so that solar cells are installed to employ domestic capacities in the production of these solar cells to save energy consumption or, in order to do so, to produce energy to these systems and reduce the consumption needed to be imported. Imports for TLM and 800 million kunas of wasted money so I don't talk. So, no proposal, no plan, no concepts or strategy at all was there or still has it. When it was proposed to introduce and exploit the RDF substance into the energy system, therefore municipal waste as domestic energy and substitutes for more expensive import components such as coal, oil, gas and uranium. So, uh... And it's been denied. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's no solution, there's no indication that anyone would think about it. It is significant to point out that there is, meaning the role of domestic renewable energy sources and the sun, which is just before and the wind power plant that Mr Bernardic spoke of earlier. Then, the biomass of hydroenergy and new technologies with domestic equipment and home concessions. Then it is also possible to use small hydropower plants as renewable sources and the most valuable national resource that can, therefore, via power plants on Savi and Drava but not as it happened in the Lic Lesto that can produce so-called new 900 megawatts of electricity. If we were to sum up all the possibilities that come out of this alone, Croatia's independence of electricity imports would be much, much closer to our concept than it is now. Maybe that's not the job and the role of HER, but I just can't go past this topic, so I can't get past this one, or this way of arguing, so I'm asking you for patience. So, all that was proposed was somewhat susceptible and certain lobbys, and then at one point the estimated high electricity consumption in the Republic of Croatia was overcharged, overcharged, to prove, or to prove and suggest to the Republic of Croatia, that Croatia needs a nuclear power plant, and believe that no one wants it, it lies in Germany on the railways of people protesting nuclear waste and not the work of a nuclear power plant. Now, the government has announced that, and the other day we were arguing here that gas consumption prices for local self-government will be handed over to the regional authorities to city councils, municipalities, and I don't know who. Is it possible that the city councils, we know their compositions, I don't underestimate anyone, they take over part or part of HERA's business, and that's exactly what it costs. How will the city council know or how they're professional in that I don't know, and HERA isn't. Either it's a transfer of hot potatoes to gas collection, so the gas collection that's on the pier, which is there to the city councils, so local self-government, so let the consumers talk about them and not about HERA or I don't know about the Croatian government. This is why I express one dissatisfaction, dissatisfaction with the overall attitude towards the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia, and also with the work of HERA, although it is not, it is merely a control and regulation as Mr Bernardic said, and is not in this system operative in terms of electricity production, electricity transmission or other energy, gas etc., but only regulated and supervised although it did not regulate and monitor on several occasions when it was necessary and when the state lost say how many 600 million kuna on that import electricity transaction more expensive and sell TLM to the cheap. It's a mastery that really borders on madness. This is why the HDSSB club is not acceptable and will not vote for it, but I have made these arguments in this debate before, because according to the assessment of both the World Bank and the world economic experts, the economic three are the resources of world energy, food and water, and indeed when we are talking about the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, we had to say this, and I think that in the Croatian Parliament there will be more topics in the energy strategy of electricity production and we must once again bring the concept and strategy where Croatia will go, although there have already been a lot of these attempts here and there has been a lot of talk about coal as far as I know, and the conclusion was that the coal future, coal, therefore as an energy future of the Republic of Croatia. Is that right, colleagues, you remember well, a year ago there was a debate about it. Here will be the HDSSB club for the adoption of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency's annual report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64026	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First of all, it's MP Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64027	Thank you, Vice President. HERA should be a regulatory agency that reacts to poor aspects of energy policy and directs this energy policy in the desired direction. This critical tone, which was naturally expected in this report, is not present, or is not present. This report is a dry bureaucratic list, not what HERA did in 2009, but what generally happened in energy in 2009. HERA does not implement a proactive policy, which is the role of the regulatory agency, it does not even implement a reactive energy policy, which is precisely scandalous, because energy is one of the three sectors in which the state must build a system of self-sufficiency alongside the water sector, and food supply, which I was talking about during the budget debate. Then why do we need HERA anyway? Would something have happened if we didn't have Hera and her 49 employees or employees? Did HERA ask the government what it did to ensure the security of gas supply as a key energy, and after the major gas crisis that happened to us in the winter of 2009? The answer to that question is not, HERA didn't do anything about it. Did HERA ask a question about why... In 2009 did not finance renewable energy projects, despite the fact that Croatian consumers provided more than 200 million kuna through their electricity bills to boost renewable energy sources? [[You don't understand.]] It's not. HERA obviously did not matter at all what the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency should be dealing with in the first place. HERA did not react to many meaningless elements of the energy strategy, which was also adopted in 2009, did not respond to the incredible energy efficiency of this document, did not react to a fully unfounded projection of 5% of the annual GDP growth in the strategy, which was evident that the projection was absolutely unfounded. It has not responded to the incredible ignoring of energy efficiency in the strategy, which is a key segment of European energy policy. HERA does not recognise the potential of energy, especially renewable energy sources as a logical and key engine for Croatia's development over the next 10 years. That's just scandalous. This is embarrassing for an agency that should regulate energy processes in Croatia. The opening part of this report discusses the temporarily closed chapter 15 regarding energy, the quality of which we have the opportunity to close in the last 10 days very much read and hear in the media, in the part of that, and in the body of the one concerning the obligation to take care of medium and low radioactive waste in Croatia. If the other aspects of this extremely important chapter are closed in such a quality way, then I can only conclude the woes of us. HERA proudly announces that it is ready for a very demanding harmonisation, i.e. the transposition of a third package of European energy regulations that are binding on all EU countries, as well as Croatia as a future EU member. A very important segment of this package is also the higher role and authority of the regulatory authorities of individual Member States, and since this report shows that HERA is not an absolutely no energy policy regulatory factor in Croatia, we can only fright from 3 March 2011 when the third EU energy regulation package begins with application. And because of all this, of course I can't support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64028	Thank you very much. Now it's the honourable representative of Nevenka Marinović's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64029	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the HERA Administration, the Honorable Secretary of State. Here is the content of the report despite some tones in previous discussions which are before us meaning structured according to the recommendations of the RGBA Association of the national regulatory authorities of EU member states whose HERA is, of course, a member of the observer status until the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU. Why is it important that the report is standardised? Because all members have their annual reports on websites, of course, and it is possible to compare. Here, I also expected my colleague Bernardić to compare this data with our data to see how our HERA does and how other regulatory agencies in Europe do it. But I didn't see it arguing that way. Hera's business is of interest to the Republic of Croatia, it is based on public authority to ensure the application of the principle and visibility and objectivity and impartiality in work. In sectors which are managed by 6 directors who are in charge of the professional work of HERA, and here I hold the important emphasis that they are elected in public competitions and correspond to the President of the Governing Council. In addition to the director, we have 7 new employees, I already said in 2009, and that means employees are just to boost capacity, meaning that it would strengthen HERA and because of its effectiveness and expertise to comply with certain obligations by law, but also for this third package of measures. The report shows that 30 meetings of the Governing Council were held with a number of agenda points, all of these decisions are published on the HERA website. In addition, 90 complaints, objections and representations of energy buyers were received from which 20 complaints were filed from HERA's jurisdiction, and 2 concerning the administrative dispute were raised against them. Here, I would like to stress here a significant role of HERA which I have not heard a word about before, and this is the role of HERA in customer protection, through the implementation of supervision of energy entities, particularly control over the quality of energy operators' services, I also hold it extremely important, but also through the Consumer Protection Council, whose members are representatives of the Consumer Protection Association, which deliver both recommendations and opinions, but also initiatives to amend consumer rights. Energy purchasers, whether they are electrical, heat or natural gas or oil, mean protecting their rights against HERA, through complaints, performances and other objections. I'm going to look at the state of the energy sector here for a little while, by some types of energy, which is visible from the HERA report. As regards electricity, the Republic of Croatia's legislation is in line with EU legislation, the process of restructuring of the electricity sector has been fully implemented, tariffs have been established for each separate regulated energy activity, and the electricity market has also been established. As far as electricity production is concerned, we also have 3 new power generation permits, and we are looking forward to it because it is the producers of renewable energy and cogeneration. HERA also extended 4 permits for the activity of trade, intermediation and representation on the energy market. When it comes to the production of electricity from renewable energy sources, I will remind myself of the specifics of the October 2009 Strategy for Energy Development of the Republic of Croatia concerning the exploitation of renewable energy sources. The first is to fulfil the obligations under Directive 2009/28. The EU on the promotion of renewable energy sources, including large hydropower plants, means in gross direct energy consumption of 20%. The second is to meet the EU Directive on the share of renewable energy in direct energy consumption in transport by 2020 to be 10%. The third objective is to maintain the share of renewable electricity production including large hydropower plants in the total electricity consumption by 2020 at 35 %. The report also shows that despite the high interest of investors for a small number of facilities during 2007 and 2008... And they either started working. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, a small number of plants. We expect that, due to the positive regulations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I will primarily think of the Law on Conduct and Conditions to encourage construction and investment that during 2010 inclusion, we expect the inclusion of larger privileged producers. It's also a big interest in wind-using plants. They were granted approvals by the end of 2009 covering 5,000 megawatts of total planned energy. It is mainly about acts, meaning prior energy consent and registrations in the register for projects found allowing the examination of renewable energy potential within the field of testing. The number of energy approvals following the issue of the location permits is much smaller and this suggests inability, indicating that there are certain obstacles. The first is somehow an inability to obtain local permits, and this is what the Government has solved and renewed, by extending the deadline of this before the law. I would just like to mention that apart from this obstacle, we have and that existing projects block the development of new projects that could be built perhaps faster than those that are listed under the quotes "reserved". However, other conditions related to environmental protection and the use of space, and the space is that you will recognise this clean and exceptional potential of the Republic of Croatia, sometimes extend what I believe is not always bad, but it is bad when they prevent these processes from preparing projects, or new investments in this sector. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64030	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64031	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague mentioned that HERA made a significant contribution to restructuring and stabilising the supply and production of electricity if I understood correctly. So I would ask her also because I really don't think the citizens have any information on whether the restructuring and stabilisation of the supply includes giving up the investments and shares that Croatia has made in the blocks of Kolubara, Obrenovac, City and Tuzla thermal power plants.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64032	Thank you. Nothing. And another replica of the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64033	Dear colleagues, Marinovic, we did not talk about the positive aspects of this agency because we did not see positive aspects of the Agency's action. You mentioned in your presentation of HROTE, i.e. there were few renewable energy projects financed by CROTE, I assure you that the reason was not because there was not enough interest in different investors and providers of different projects, on the contrary there was a very large number of projects offered, however, the reason why these projects were not realised is that HEP did not give these 200 million CROTEs what we had the opportunity to find out from the media. Which is just scandalous, I believe that HERA was supposed to react to this case and it seems to me that HERA didn't respond to it very much. In addition, it is unacceptable that HERA is not concerned that Croatia does not yet have the Law on Renewable Energy and that the rules on the placement of renewable energy sources in the Croatian energy system are so complicated that they do not actually encourage but are just preventing the realisation of renewable energy sources in Croatia, which is inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64034	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64035	Here's what I don't know, Mrs. Holly, but I just wanted to point out positive if you're not positive about these effects of HERA on electricity consumers then I don't know what's positive, I think that's why I pointed out that part because these are extremely positive effects that you haven't noticed and I think they're significant. These are the same electricity users that you claimed secured 200 million kunas for renewable energy sources. When you talk about how much they have provided, you must also protect those same consumers, so I was talking about protecting these very consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64036	Thank you. Let's move forward with the debate before I inform you that at 16 hours and 52 minutes, the time for the 10-minute hearing has expired. It is next, the distinguished representative of Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64037	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Board of Directors, ladies and gentlemen. The worst nightmare for members of the Governing Councils or Croatian agencies is to become famous in the Croatian public, which we witnessed the other day with this unfortunate Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, an extremely significant fund that was almost unspeakable in public, about a fund in which huge financial resources were being poured in for a purpose that only says a name and was being spent on how it was spent. And it became known because it entered the focus of the interest of Uskok. Unfortunately, and HERA became more famous to the wider Croatian public after the shift of the former President of the Governing Council, and that the paradox should not be changed because of what he did badly, and could be read from time to time in certain media, but what he did from good faith, what was in his description of the work he was doing. But his worst crime was that he was connected to a man who fell into political disfavor. I'm saying all of this for the simple reason I've repeated this on the occasion of the discussion of the Report of the Competition Agency. There are two possibilities for people who run these agencies or funds, and one option is to work professionally. At the same time, professionalism necessarily requires sometimes to enter into conflicts with stronger, superior and superior ones, thus being ready for a shift or on the other hand to receive wages, to count the days until the end of the term of office, to obediently determine all that is said by the government or the competent ministry, and again without guarantee that they will not be removed. Because that's exactly what the former President of the Governing Council shows. Hera herself likes to stand out here as a non-profit independent regulatory agency. Now whether or not she is to what extent she is indeed. Let's start with a nonprofit, the most interesting fact is that the profit of HERA is $11 million, we'd say thank God someone in this country is doing a positive job, better at profit than losing. At the same time, however, if we know how the funds are poured into this Agency whether it may then be considered because the Prime Minister himself spoke of the need for state institutions to bear the burden of the crisis evenly with economic operators, then perhaps it is thought that, if not for this year, then the next one about reducing that famous fee for carrying out energy activities from 0,06 to some smaller percentages, or 0,04, by balancing the costs with what has been spent, and it is also interesting that most of these funds go to employees' salaries 45 or what is 49, more than 60% of the funds go to employees' salaries, which, if we take the average they would receive far more than average wages in Croatia, which can again be good but then new standards are set before HERA. So, if it is teamed up and we see that there are enough employees, if it is said that a new 7 has been received that should be just an additional guarantee for more professional performance, if the salaries are relatively decent for Croatian conditions if the inflow of funds is extremely good and then the question is how are these other functions of HERA as regulatory and independent agencies being carried out. And one of the problems why we can put a question mark on how independent she is is the conflict of interest that is constantly being withdrawn with members or members of the board. Again, I am attached to the former president who came from HEP who, after his resolution, briefly went to HEP for pay. How independent it can be if people come from such powerful economic entities. And the best thing that shows is I'm not talking about conjecture. How much HERA was able to control what was happening in HEP, at least formally at least if you had an explanation that you were doing your job, and what others didn't listen to is their problem. If the problem was not apartments because they were too small no matter how small and at what prices they were divided, it had to fall into the eyes of the price of the purchase of electricity or the relationship between TLM or Aluminium Mostar whether it was brought into the arrangement or not. HERA, I think, should have, had, had to give its opinion on these arrangements. I remember when a few of us raised the issue of the upper horizons from the ecological point of view of the major hydroenergy project in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska, at that time there was torment. Almost no one in these energy structures wanted to talk about it at all. The importance of the problem and the rest has been minimized. However, in the media especially in Bosnia and Herzegovina, all of what is currently in Croatia could be read. At that time, the various names of large players in this area of electricity sales for which no one in the Croatian public mentioned that today would have seen that many of our officials were in contact with them who bought the electricity at prices that they bought unfavourable for HEP and for Croatia, and that in the public at all was not particularly apostrophe, and I can see that neither HERA cared, at least it was visible, at least you could read it clearly and loudly with that you could really boast in this report that this was the case. And how the relationship between HERA and the Government works may well show an example of this adoption of amendments and the addition of the Energy Act where HERA is not even consulted, although it is legally mandatory not to give an opinion on the law which will again cause a series of conjectures. Perhaps as experts say they will restore the state of things heat energy before 2005 and contribute to a great proportion between eaten Croatian cities in the price of heat energy. With all these weaknesses that are being read from this report and more from what is not written and everything we know how things are, the question is whether the agency is able to take on the new obligations imposed by the third set of European Union energy laws? Will HERA be independent enough to bring electricity or gas prices alone or will it work on a remote control as it has been so far? And all of this, of course, shows that there's still a lot of work ahead of all of us, it's not just the responsibility of the board. It is the responsibility of politics, we must assume our share of responsibility, us, you, in the ruling majority but also us in opposition because the laws are passed in the Croatian Parliament. This Government is also voted in the Croatian Parliament, and the fact that this Government is not responsible enough does not, of course, reduce the responsibility of all people sitting in the administrative councils of HERA or any other agency or fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64038	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64039	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, honored Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. In this standardised report, HERA gives an overview of the state of the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia. This report also refers to the Air Protection Act. And right now, at this moment, a huge cloud of smoke has gone out of control over Sisak because of the failure in the refinery, until the air quality condition is known, because the measurement station in Caprag hasn't worked since November 18th. And the malfunction itself is prescribed to break the compressor that broke down just a few days after the annual repair. And here's the situation of our energy sector, and HERA boasts, among other things, that Chapter 15 is temporarily closed. Energy, which is correct. However, let us look at what the European Commission says in its report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia, regarding Chapter 15. - Energy. And he says about HERA that in June 2010, the government disbanded the HERA Management Board, which raises independence and actually independence and powers, hence the competence and real power of HERA regulators. In addition, they say that little progress has been made on the internal energy market, and with this only chapter 15, the European Commission has a lot of other objections, very strong remarks concerning the energy sector, for example the fact that the Institute of Radiological and Nuclear Security also has questionable independence, since the inspection body has been left in the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, not within itself as it was negotiated within Chapter 15, even before the merger of these two institutions, the State Department for radiation protection and the State Department for Nuclear Safety. It may not have a direct connection to HERA, but the fact is that this report by HERA is a representation of the state of the energy sector and also the fact that 15% of energy is supplied from Krško Nuclear Power Plant, which is in the 50 per cent ownership of the Republic of Croatia, and is located only 20 kilometers from Zagreb as the largest population centre. If we haven't even worked out a nuclear accident plan yet, we haven't transposed EURATOM's European guidelines to the end of our legal system. Here's all that says here in this report. So, the fact is that it seems like a constant problem is that agencies, bodies, administrative bodies in the Republic of Croatia are being held together, that they do not have enough independence as they should have to perform their duties. And also this recent law, amendments to the Energy Act, completely bypassed HERA as a regulator. So, HERA seems to only exist as one chronicler of events, to describe the situation in the sector, and not to do what its purpose is. to play an active role in market regulation. The fact is also that small businessmen, the tinyest ones who, say, want to build a wind power plant because of HEP, can't put extra electricity into the net because HEP is a monopoliest, HEP doesn't respond. Also here is the walking director between HEP, HERA and back to HEP, so what independence it is. In addition, the European Commission shows and shows this in its progress report on the Republic of Croatia. And to end up with one thesis, that it's better for this HERA than for Enron to come to us, thanks to the lobbying of the ruling years ago. It's a good thing we got rid of it, so it's better this kind of hera than a disaster like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64040	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Mariana Petir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64041	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Col. Franić, you referred to among other things in your presentation at Krško Nuclear Power Plant, which is in fact the largest investment by the Republic of Croatia outside our borders, and you mentioned that we do not have a plan for protection and rescue. I would like to remind you that in July of this year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the State Plan for Protection and Rescue and that every company, including a nuke, of course, has their own special protection and rescue plans. I'm not saying it's on time, but there's a plan anyway. What I may be more concerned about is a situation that is often happening when it comes to the infringement of the ESPO Convention, where, of course, our neighbours from either side would come, which are signatories of the same Convention, the Convention on Cross-border Impact, should consult the Republic of Croatia if they are to build certain energy facilities near the border. This does not happen regularly with Slovenia, namely Slovenia is building hydropower plants on the Sava, Croatia is asking nothing, and it still seems to me that it requires a steady reaction from our side, which we have the right to international conventions. The second thing that concerns me, what I learned from the media is that Slovenia has already issued a location permit for the construction of a nuclear waste dump at the border with Croatia, which is contrary not only to Slovenian regulations but also to international regulations. And I sincerely hope that this communication and dialogue will improve because Croatia, when it builds anything, then informs its neighbours according to the principles of the Convention. Unfortunately, some neighbors don't have the same treatment, although it's so prescribed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64042	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64043	Dear fellow Petyr, I did not refer to the National Protection and Rescue Plan. We have it, it's good to have it. I was talking about the European Commission report and the fact that we do not have something called a nuclear accident plan that is in line with the Convention on Nuclear Safety under the patronage of the International Atomic Energy Agency and the conventions signed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. However, right away, I am very pleased with what you said in the previous exhibition or replica, I do not remember exactly that the government is not considering the privatisation of HEP, and therefore the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, because the only remaining Republic of Croatia in the ownership structure of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant guarantees a direct impact on security policy. Otherwise, we as a state would have to intervene with this through a very complicated and complex system of international conventions, which is because of the proximity of the Krško nuclear power plant itself, doubtless impractical, so this is the best solution for the safety of Croatian citizens. But the nuclear alert plan we have to make as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64044	Thank you. And we still have one individual debate, distinguished representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64045	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the proposers, colleagues and colleagues. Regulatory agencies serve to essentially regulate relations on the market of certain specific activities in this part of the energy. And I will compare only the Croatian Regulatory Agency and I will take one that I really think about best, which has worked hard, in many ways to improve the market and we can be satisfied with that market. And a big contribution has just been made by the agency. It is an agency for, the Croatian agency for telecommunications and postal services. We can say that in a part of telecommunications, there's a lot of things that are in line with business, that we have a number of progress, in the part of the price reduction, regardless of whether fixed networks, mobile networks, Internet networks. We just have enough competition. We also have confessions that not yet until the end is done by the agency itself and indicates what they will do, and also the problems identified in postal transport and what all the agency will do. I compare one such report that really shows how much we left the market to market elements, to market business, how much we try to limit both monopolies and how many Croatian citizens and Croatian businessmen benefit from such work. And now back to the HERA Report and can we say the same satisfaction for the energy market? My answer is no. In fact, we must stress completely unsatisfactory. Why? Number one. The energy market is going back to electricity. Insufficient production in Croatia, huge imports to Croatia. Furthermore, the goals we are set to use alternative sources do not come true. The main culprit is the hep monopolist who collects money from Croatian citizens, but does not pass it on to those who have to achieve their goals. All of this allows for HERA, all of it. Taking and non-intentional means, strictly dedicated means. Shall we talk about gas? Well, the gas market is a completely unsettled market in Croatia. Every year, we worry whether we'll have enough gas for the citizens, not to mention that every year industry doesn't have enough gas. The question is, what's the reason? The impact of HERA on the fact that it did not provide sufficient amounts of energy in the gas section. Are we going to talk about that other part, that precisely because of government policy so-called. social policies and price dictates which is contrary to the market elements of business and energy, contrary to the directives, contrary to what we say we will do and that this policy dictates the lack of gas and huge gas problems. Are we going to talk about the huge problems between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the INA at this time because we do not have a regulated gas price market, and that is why Hungarians or INA have not previously taken care of the settlement of long-term quantities in the future, so there remains uncertainty for future sources of gas and I would say basic and energy, but also a goods factor for the Croatian industry. Yeah, that's our problem. And the biggest damage is if we don't have secure energy sources, we don't have them in the gas. On the other hand, we have a continuous unfinished negotiations between the Government and the INA in the part of which INA achieves enormous losses, does not want to further produce losses, does not want to carry on the social policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and all this is a job of HER. These relations should have been taken over by HERA. HERA is the one reporting to us. We need to know about these problems and relations between the government and HER. We need to understand that we need to settle the price of gas. We don't solve it. And when we're jeopardizing and supplying, I'd say we're hoarding the dubious. There's really a lot of dubious stuff going on. None of us know how to solve the dubious. But unresolved issues between INA as a producer or a major distributor of import gas also reflect on local gas distributors. Yes, local gas distributors have very different entry prices. HERA aware of everything that's going on under me would say the pressures of government policy on energy prices don't allow formation I'd say market prices. We have dubiosis, losses and local distributors. And a complete absence I'd say investment investments and the expansion of a network of gas distributors. I cannot achieve positive results, let alone the results needed for further investment, and I would say the security of the gas energy source that let's not say whether it's priced better, but speaking of environmental protection, speaking of the interest of that part is much more acceptable energy. Therefore, if we are talking about HERA's results in the regulation of the energy market then we must conclude we have not received any positive effect except here my colleague said a positive effect is the relationship of possibly HEP and the Consumer Association. I would say a slightly more serious relationship between manufacturers and distributors towards Croatian consumers and respect for them in view of HERA interventions. And we accept in that part, probably both improvements and... action. [[You don't understand.]] We wonder if for this situation on the energy market Croatia, which means lack, undefined prices, non-economic relations on this market, therefore none of the elements of HERA have been realised. Are the people in Hera responsible for this situation? And then we need to understand with the government's energy price control policy, HERA cannot achieve any of the goals outlined, the objectives set out to guarantee Croatia's citizens and the safe access to energy, the way they should. And I am proof of what happened and the replacement of HERA, the management of HERA in this year is simply an NGO, an independent body from the government removed. Why? Just because he said his opinion, didn't make his decision, didn't make a decision, the opinion said. Opinion. And that was the reason for disbanding people in HERA. Therefore, we SDP representatives find the report unacceptable as a report because the fundamental objectives of one regulator are not achieved, nor security of supply, nor price, and I would say neither distribution on the energy market. What we want to say to this new team is certainly not yet to blame for this condition, the question as much as the former team, because the main problem is government policy. And now we're going back to whether the actual energy market can survive the government price, the price that threatens because the most expensive is when you don't have energy, when you close production because there's no gas. Believe me then, it's the highest price industry pays. The fear of citizens when they don't know if they're gonna heat up is also the highest price. And once we have to understand by discussing such reports we have to send a clear message to the government we have to have economic relations on the gas market, because it has the whole world, it has Europe to which we are looking, and I would say controlling these relations on the energy market ensures uncertainty and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64046	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64047	Vice President, you mentioned the part that I would mention in the replica, because I actually don't see a place or moment where we can talk about it, which is that we have sources of energy, but that we have ignored or that we have missed in some other way. The Republic of Croatia is in the former system until '90. invest and build on the foundations of inter-republics that were actually built as inter-state contracts by the thermal site in Gacko in Bosnia, the capacities in Tuzla, the capacities of Kolubara, or Obrenovac, and that these energy potentials, as well as how much of the use of the data barata is not available in the public, or that energy produced and sold is not charged. In addition to how much information Gacko has been privatised and sold to a foreign investor and investor in Bosnia and Herzegovina without the interest of the Republic of Croatia being protected. This is the question when it comes to the lack of energy which is evident and which will be more evident which, we find, the standard of citizens will grow, and the development of the economy will grow.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64048	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64049	We are moving to the 2009 report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2009. Proposer of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2009 and the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by most votes, 71 votes for, no abstentions and 31 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64050	We move to the next item - - Supplement of the report on the work of the Croatian Programme Council and on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations set out by the HRT Act in HR and HTV programmes in the period from 14 October 2008 to 24 February 2010 and the HRT business report in 2009. ( 2009 HRT Annual Report) Proposer: The Programme Council of Croatian Radio Television, which, in accordance with the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament from the 18th session held on 15 July 2010, and in conjunction with Article 19. The HRT Act, the government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, on Gender Equality, on Information, Information and Media, and on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. You received the reports at the session. HRT Programme Council President Zvonko Milas will further explain the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64051	Thank you very much. Ms. Representatives and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Vice President. So as you said, the Croatian Parliament was at the 18th session of 15 July this year, so it did not accept the report on the work of the Programme Council on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by the Law on HRT, Croatian Radio and Television for the period from 14 October 2008 to 24 February 2010, and we received the obligation by 30 September of this year to submit a report to this House. As part of the report, we had to report in particular on the achievement of the obligations of the HRT arising from the Law on Gender Equality, the national policy for the promotion of gender equality in 2006-2010, taking into account the unexecuted obligations of the Council established by the 14th session of the Croatian Parliament, as well as the observations and proposals made at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament's Committee, and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on that report, and, in particular, to report on the achievement of the obligations of the HRT arising from the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages, and the documents governing the obligations of HRT on the promotion of gender equality, the right... group, children, persons with disabilities and other groups. [[You don't understand.]] According to the above conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, the Programme Council has concluded that it is necessary to supplement its work, reports on its work, and on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations established by the law, which we have done and this report is before you today. As before, it is based on everything that the Council has worked on during that period, which has credible documentation, phonogram records, session records, and everything in accordance with the HRT Act. On this occasion, I would not hold back on the elaborated material that is in front of you, I remain on the disposition for issues arising from the work of the council's authority, but I would refer to the current course of reporting if you would allow me. So there is often a wrong perception in the public about the powers of the council, especially with regard to internal issues and the functioning of the HRT. I must point out that the council does not bring the program orientations of HRT, but only gives them an opinion that is not binding. Their dissatisfaction with the programme and the fact that the opinions and suggestions of the council on the programme are, in spite of the repetition of everything we've been making through suggestions, e.g. the reference to language and speech in HRT programmes, gender equality, national minority programmes, objectivity of informing the development of its own... productions, and, in particular, because of the extremely poor and non-transparent business that caused all of this, which was just mentioned, sanctioned by the Council in the only way available to it in accordance with the provisions of the law and resolved the directorship of the HRT, and at the end of the General Editor of the Information Programme and the Director of the HRT Programme. In accordance with the legal provisions of the Council, representatives of the various social groups who at least in the current composition of which we have insights do their utmost work, meetings of the Council are under constant public supervision, discussions at meetings are open and important issues arise beyond the set framework of the Rules of Procedure, thus opening up the possibility of a maximum initiative for each member, and thus assessing whether or not to participate in the work and making a decision on their own. This also led to the fact that several members of the council resigned from the council and the Council is now acting with 6 members, one missing since November 2009, three members since July 2010, and one member resigned in August this year. And in such a defiled composition, the Council continued to work with full engagement, with the exception of a working session which discussed the reports of the programme directors and editors-in-chief of the Information Programmes on the implementation of radio and television programming in the period from January to June 2010, and the Management Report on Business for the first 6 months was held a thematic session on the Croatian Television Drama Programme as an important segment of the programme, which, according to the members of the council, should be the provider of national and cultural heritage, which has been falling more and more qualitatively lately. One of the reasons, though, may well be, is that it's a cruel business, so a lack of funds. The HRT Council concluded in view of the state of play that we must continue to hold the thematic sessions on both the subject of the dramatic and the subject of the situation in the Information Programme and that on issues related to the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Finally, I would like to say that the Council is very important in the opinion of the Croatian Parliament, that all well-intentioned advice on improving the work of the council is welcome and that we will also hold a thematic session to discuss your proposals and remarks, and in order to improve the work of the council, which I hope will also contribute to the new law that is currently under way. So far so much, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64052	Thank you. The Director-General of Croatian Radio Television Josip Popovac will explain the HRT Business Report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64053	Mr. Vice President, MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. You are presented with the 2009 HRT Business Report. The members of the HRT Directorate were Mr. Sutlic, Mr. Mezulić, Markot, Guberin and Mr. Begovic until 8.12.2009. Since 9.12.2009, I have been with V.D. Director of Croatian Radio Mr. Zoran Mihajlović, v.d. Director of Croatian Television Mislav Stipić, Sanda Vojković as V.d. Director of Music Production and Tomislav Meštric, who was elected representative of HRT employees. The goals of business in HRT in 2009 are set by the business plan and the rebalance of the business plan. In mid-2009, a rebalancing that I now mentioned was carried out due to the inability to achieve planned revenues from marketing. In fact, some of the biggest clients have reduced their advertising budgets and are therefore projected revenue from marketing is lower and up to 180 million kuna has been forecasted. It is also estimated that the implementation of the austerity and rationalisation measures in consumption will reduce the total expenditure of HRT by 155 million kuna. However, at the end of 2009, marketing revenues were less than planned for 62 million kuna, hence the rebalanced plan, and the revenues from the tax and other revenues were higher by 35 million kuna. The real effect is 27 million kunas less achieved total revenue than planned. HRT has achieved 81 million kuna of total expenditure more than plan. Of which, 39 million kuna refers to the additional cost associated with the potential departure, encouraging forgiveness of the departure of 226 early retirement employees, which is an extra-planned cost not realised from credit assets but from current liquidity. The value of harmonisation of customers from marketing and television fees is greater than the plan for 17 million kunas as well as the broadcasting services of radio and television programmes that are larger than the plan for 7 million kunas. HRT thus ended the business year with a loss of 106 million kuna and with great liquidity difficulties. Total revenue of a billion 464 million kuna was made, which did not cover the total expenditures of a billion and 570 million kuna. What I must add to this, which is that, in the drafting of this Business Report, the same accounting policies as for the 2008 report have been used. So both can be viewed and observed in one continuity. Here, so far, so much for questions, I'm on board. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64054	Thank you. Committees on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, on Gender Equality, Chairman of Mrs. Gordana Sobol's Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64055	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen from HRT, colleagues and colleagues. At the 41st session held on 3 November this year, the Committee on Gender Equality discussed the completion of the Report on the work of the Croatian Programme Council on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by law for the period from 14 October 2008 to 24 February 2010 and the 2009 HRT Business Report. In his opening statement, the HRT Director-General discussed improving the difficult financial situation from the previous period, but warned of a decline in revenues from marketing. A member of the Programme Council, presenting the addition of the report, stressed that the Programme Council accepted the comments and suggestions of the Croatian Parliament as well as the parliamentary committees. In this connection, a number of recommendations have been made, among them, to implement the targeted education of editors and editors on the integration of gender equality issues into editorial and journalistic work. In the debate followed by the members and members of the committee, they made a series of remarks to supplement the report, which they assessed barely better than the report itself. As a fundamental problem, there is a further lack of understanding of the very concept of gender equality and what the whole area of gender equality includes. In this case, the Reports shall contain a list of emissions among which a large number cannot even be classified in an area that could be considered an area of gender equality. And let's say, among other things, when it comes to individual shows like Sunday at 2 a.m., 50 shows a year, there were only 4 shows where women used to host. When we talk about the sports programme for one whole year, the entire sports programme singled out two shows that discussed gender equality, however, one of them talked about the humanitarian event. An explanation has been requested whether editors, editors are required to attend education on promoting gender equality and whether there are any sanctions for not fulfilling that obligation? An explanation has also been sought which has not led to an analysis of the advertising content related to sexual stereotypes. The importance of education is highlighted and the comments are made regarding the use of the standard Croatian language on HRT. As regards the financial report, it is expressed dissatisfaction that, despite the losses, costs are unplannedly increased, especially for wages. It has been warned that editorial freedom cannot mean that editors at HRT are not subject to legal provisions. Furthermore, the observation that the Programme Council paid particular attention to promoting gender equality at the heart of other areas is considered unfounded. In fact, the Croatian Parliament has obliged the Croatian Council of Programmes to submit, in addition to regular annual reports, a special report on the promotion of gender equality in HRT programmes, no matter what anyone thinks. The President of the Office for Gender Equality of the Government made a series of remarks on the addition of the Report, warned of inaccuracies and of the lack of understanding of the concept of gender equality. She pointed out that, in addition to the Report, an action plan was needed to promote gender equality in the process of adoption. The lawyer for gender equality who was a lecturer at the workshop gender equality in HRT programmes organised by the educational centre warned of the negative attitude of participants and workshop participants themselves as well as the lack of express interest of editors and editors for the workshop. He believes that the Croatian Radio Programmes in the area of achieving obligations to promote gender equality could serve as an example to the editors of the TV programme. The principal also provided further explanations, as regards advertising content, that they are being reviewed but that failures are possible. As regards the financial report on salary expenditure, the severances that HRT was obliged to pay are included, but it was stressed that the salaries on HRT did not grow for 12 years. The Directorate plans to sanction non-school education, and it is pointed out that there are three national and 8 regional programmes that are broadcast for 24 hours as part of the Croatian Radio, which is likely to result in a higher quality of radio programmes. The Council member agreed with the majority of the comments made in the debate, however, explained the limited powers of the Council which cannot be confused in the editorial policy but only to make observations, make recommendations and possibly try to influence the Director-General. After the debate, the members and members of the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the following conclusion: It is noted that the report on the work of the HRT Programme Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by the Croatian Radio and Croatian Television Act in the period from 14 October 2008 to 24 February 2010 and the HRT Director's report on business in 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64056	Thank you. Committee on Croatians outside Croatia, Chairman of the Committee Mr. Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64057	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia discussed the report in question as an interested working body. A representative of the Report's proposal to the Committee detailed the business of HRT in 2008 and 2009, as well as the accounting policies based on the 2008 and 2009 Business Reports, as well as the consequences resulting from this business policy in 2009 and 2010. He also answered a number of questions from the Committee members regarding the problem of the functioning of the programme council, etc. In the debate, several members of the Committee stressed that in the report on the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by the Law during the observed period there was no mention of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Although one of the conclusions of the Committee held from the meeting on 15 April 2010 regarding the examination of that first part of the Report has just been entrusted by the Croatian Programme Council of the Croatian Republic to report specifically on the implementation of Croatian obligations to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with the Law on the Croatian Republic and the conclusions of the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia as of 1 July 2008. All this is assessed as a consequence of insufficient representation of programmes dedicated to Croatians living outside the Republic of Croatia, as well as insufficient public information in the Republic of Croatia about their countrymen outside the Republic of Croatia. Regardless of the dissatisfaction mentioned and the fact that the mentioned Report does not mention Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the Committee was pleased with the work of Croatian Radio and its commitment to Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. The Committee expects Croats outside Croatia to be told more in both information and political, cultural, educational, economic and other Croatian emissions. The Committee advocates strengthening the media connection between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, i.e. Croatians in emigration, Croatian national minorities in neighbouring countries and Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the aim of informing and sensitising the public about the problems, interests and possibilities of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and the resulting multiple mutual interests of Croatia and Croats living outside its borders. When it comes to the emissions in question intended for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, it is well rated "The Voice of Homeland" even though it is shown in a small time and satellite programme for Croatians in America, Australia and New Zealand. Support is given to the "Croatian Image" programme as a project of Croatian and Croatian Government aimed at promoting and preserving Croatia's heritage and linking Croatia with the Croatian diaspora. The Committee welcomed the decision of the Croatian HRT leadership that the "Croatian Bich Chronicle" in the production of a picture of Croatia intended for Europe in the future can be viewed in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, although it is considered totally unacceptable that the same emissions in Europe are only seen via satellites on the 3rd channel of HTV every other Sunday morning at 2:30 a.m. At the previous meeting on the Report on the Implementation of Programme Principles, the Committee proposed to avoid discrimination against one part of Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, especially those in Europe and the public in the Republic of Croatia, that the "Croatian Chronicle of Bosnia and Herzegovina", "Figure of Croatia" announces, and "My birthplace" be broadcast on the first uncoded programme of Croatian television. At the same session, it was proposed that the picture of Croatia be adapted to a specific international programme that would not be aired in English, German and Spanish. This programme would promote Croatia worldwide at all levels of that economic, political, cultural and tourism, such as BBC, World Service, Voice of America, Deutsche Welle and others. It is explained in a way that the picture of Croatia should be created by us and not only by foreign media. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the following conclusions "It takes note of the report on the work of the HRT Programme Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations set out by the HRT Act in the HRTV programmes from 14 October 2008 to 24 February 2010 and the HRT Business Directorate's report. The second conclusion is, "The Croatian Programme Council of the Croatian Republic is obliged to report in particular on the implementation of Croatian obligations to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the Law on Croatians and the conclusions of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia since 1 July 2008 and 15 April 2010 also requires the directorship and the Croatian Programme Council to consider how existing emissions to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia would be broadcast and undated 1st HTV programme".
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64058	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Ms. Mariana Petir's club of representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64059	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and deputies, President of the Council, Mr. Directors. At its meeting, the HSS Club discussed the obligations of the HRT Programme Council and the directorships arising from the conclusions adopted by the Croatian Parliament at its 18th session. In this regard, it was concluded that the Assembly concluded at that session that it did not accept the report of the HRT Council for the period 2008 to 2010, which was also the position of our HSS club. At the same time, the Parliament has charged the council to make it to 30. Nine. In 2010, he submitted a new report on his work and implementation of the programme principles and obligations as well as the 2009 HRT Directorate's report, which we must conclude here is not fully implemented. Namely, a 2009 directory report was submitted, instead of a new report on the work and implementation of the laws of established programme principles and obligations of the Croatian Council, provided an update of the earlier report. It is visible in addition to the report that some of our remarks from the HSS Club fall on fertile soil and are appreciated for what we welcome. I would also like to point out that we support the conclusions of the HRT Programme Council, which undertake the Croatian programme leadership to change and improve the current programme policy, and are listed in this report. Therefore, we at the HSS Club are inclined to support this report, taking into account the fact that the people sitting here are not responsible for the business described in this report. But let me also say a few sentences about currentity. In fact, in HRT's editorial policy, in the opinion of us at the HSS club, there are still gaps that significantly reduce the quality of the programme and bring HRT's role as public television, as there is not enough attention to the responsibilities that HRT has because of its influence on the formation of a public position. Our position is that HTV as public television should represent the interests of all citizens. in that sense, one of the main criteria for selecting guests should be whom this guest represents. In fact, it often happens in shows to host representatives of political parties who barely have one representative in the Assembly or associations that have 5 or 10 members, while parties that have the electoral result of the association, the community, citizens' initiatives that number tens of thousands of members are systematically passing by. This is particularly evident when discussing general human values. We have already warned at the HSS Club and unfortunately in that segment we have not seen a millimeter move. HTV's work model is also detimizing for politicians and MPs who have constructive discussions and proposals that offer solutions and which distinguish work and occupancy for citizens and not demagogues, because they cannot get space in information emissions. Often, and this has been particularly highlighted lately, we can see in the information program One man Ben shou as a report on the work of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, and this was expressed here these days when reports related to the adoption of the state budget were presented. I could say that someone who's watching this information program can figure out, the more explicit you are, the better you are, and you'll get more space, no matter what you don't speak very wisely or wisely, or I could say you don't represent anyone. Because of the subjective display of the work of media representatives, but also on public television, there is an impression of privileges that do not exist and there is added anger among citizens as part of a society that lives on their behalf and contributes nothing. Of course, there are such cases, but they should be called by name and last name, not all politicians and MPs in the same box. We have witnessed last week's link of MPs when it comes to the Pensions Act, although it is known to be a matter within the jurisdiction of the Law on Rights and the responsibilities of MPs whose amendments are in preparation. I will personally testify that in a press statement, I said that I advocate that the law should be changed in the sense that officials are equal to all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to pensions, stressing that I believe that the Constitutional Court decision that we must respect is not fair. In addition to HTV, which was a fruit of construction and aimed at showing the representatives as a privileged caste, there was quite something different from what was said, however, we were Stigmatized. The same case was with a recent statement by the US ambassador, which was completely defaced and put in the wrong context about which Mr. Jandrokovic, the foreign minister, spoke here in the Parliament yesterday and denied the HTV contribution. HTV has shown that it has not made enough efforts to protect the majority and the value system of the majority in its programme, and this also raises the question of its role as public television. We heard here just before in the report that the call to give greater space to Croats outside Croatia. But I tell you that there will be little further that neither Croatians in Croatia nor outside Croatia will be spoken of, because today, in the media, all that is patriotic and all that is godly is a mockery, and that is, unfortunately, public television. Is it acceptable to mock our saints, not to appreciate who we are and to spit on the table from which we rose. I think everyone should think about it. These days, announcements are also heard about the abolition of Ecumena and Mir's religious shows and the well-evaluation of high-quality, which is less than 1% of the broadcast programme. From 300 hours a week, we can watch religious content shows in a country where the majority population is declared as Christians. I would like to remind myself that the Law on HRT in Article 7 notes that Croatian Radio and Croatian Television are obliged to permanently and truly, in whole, impartially and timelyly inform the public about facts, events and phenomena in the country and abroad of public interest and to respect, to encourage pluralism of political, religious, worldly and other ideas, to allow the public to be familiar with these ideas but to forget about this article of the law. HRT is dealing with loss, the situation with advertisers because of the economic crisis is getting worse, but all this can't be an excuse for the kind of program we're looking at. No novelty, and popular show programs are recorded according to licenses, instead of producing them ourselves. What is sad is that in what we produce ourselves, and these are domestic series, we hear curses that have become an integral part of the language of speech. I know some will say that swearing is not the biggest problem with HTV, but it is certainly one of the symptoms in which domestic production of the program is and what is the state of HTV if such emissions are purchased. Starting with the end of 2009 of HRT with a business loss of 106 million kuna, we do not understand the high rate of staff cost growth by as much as 15.7%. How business losses can be achieved and compensations ranging from 150 thousand to 750 thousand kuna can be paid simultaneously in HRT during 2009. As a public institution, HRT is mostly financed by the subscription paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and therefore has an obligation to comply with the situation in the Croatian society, which is not the case now. A pensioner who has a pension of 800 kuna 10% must give his pension a monthly subscription if he wants to watch television, and then from that aspect of the pensioner, and in this context, he should indeed offer the programme that deserves to be paid to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We at the HSS Club believe that there is a need to seriously remove the gaps that took place in the editorial policy and regular business of HRT in order to provide viewers with quality program, timely, accurate and objective information, and give HRT back its damaged reputation. Since this is about the report submitted for a period during which some other people were at the head of the HRT, of course we respect the fact that you who are here today cannot be responsible for their work, but we expect much better results from you, especially with regard to the return of HRT through the change of programmes and the introduction of order into the frameworks of public television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64060	Thank you. SDP club Mr. Representative Antun Vujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64061	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues from the television, gentlemen of the ministry. Let me say a few words on behalf of the SDP club regarding this report. The report certainly mentions a whole series of things and failures, then organizing how not to reach them. Here we heard reports of clubs that also had long lists of objections. These long lists of objections, interestingly, also include gender equality issues and the question of minority representation. No one mentioned the question of professionalism, but it might add. But it's all in the shadow of one key event, and it's another event, and it's the passing of the law, and it's actually the position in which public television finds itself getting circumstances that we can't without counting and not finding out that it's actually, that... It works in a one-stop-shop, a one-stop-shop, a one-stop-shop where the Board of Directors works and a one-stop-shop that also operates in the Programme Council. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here it is said, Mr. Miles mentioned it, so now of the 11 members of the Council there are all six left. First, there was a blockage of one member's election, and that was exactly the opposition's. The blockade took place through the club's disagreements most in selecting a fully-defined member for the Programme Council due to an alleged conflict of interest. It has been established, or is nowhere and no one has found that such a conflict of interest exists, however, the blockade has been carried out and, of course, such a blockade has followed other blockades. First, the same Program Council replaced one person from the position of principal or principal director, and appointed a few months after that, I think six months for the position, so to an even higher function. And so there were three other members of the Council's resignations. Then the Council left another member who probably went to his island of knowledge to take a vacation. And so now we have a situation of having 11 council members of six council members. Such a council cannot, it does not have the necessary majority to appoint the Director-General so that it is, in fact, extended to the Provincial that it is constantly extending the Provincial in the sense of the Director-General's office, etc. We can't support this council, and that doesn't apply to any person present here, it doesn't apply to either the President of the Council or to those who stayed in the council, it doesn't apply to the Director of the Council. This simply refers to disagreement with the fact that the main purpose of the council is not fulfilled and that the good part of the guilt is not borne by this Assembly. Fortunately, the law does not provide for sanctions for television in terms of the adoption or acceptance or non-acceptation of the report. This clause has been incorporated into the past law with a good intention of not actually happening because of any or somehow complex parliamentary majority being disabled by the report of this council. But there are moral obligations and there is a force of some argument, and there is absolutely a need for us all to worry about the fate of public television because it is the only medium, the only one of the great media, the significant media that remains public. In this sense, there are always two obstacles when it comes to public television. On the one hand, all our comments on quality care, divided among other things or at least reduced for certain values that this public television has, because it is still one of the better public televisions, and the best in this part of Europe and certainly our dissatisfaction with this situation. I think it's crucial that we concentrate on the future law, I think it's crucial that we install in it those instruments that will help solve the issue... and in the leadership of public television, and then in the council itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if I'm not mistaken for some of the knowledge I have, maybe we're in the process of reaching some kind of consensus on how to manage it, in a way that protects the autonomy of public television, regardless of which party was in power when it works in the fullest form of this Law. Perhaps the gentlemen of public television are fortunate that there are certain uncertaintys here, so I hope that we will install such a law in which there will be no majorisation, in which we will be able to ensure that you as a Programme Council and you as a directorship have protection from this Parliament, that you are not being persecuted by every single minister of finance whether you should pay more VAT or not, that you can therefore commit yourself primarily to building professionalism in the journalistic structure. Because at this point, you don't have such programs. Commercial TVs are pressing you with one type of information that you can't answer to the same type of information. We are aware that a certain drop in ratings is also related to such access to the media. You have a rival diary that does not agree on the importance of the news it gives, but on when you will appear to give the breaking news. All these are the circumstances in which public television acts as the sole protection of these citizens against private interests. And with the support we want to express to public television, we believe that the way in this particular case to this support is our abstention in terms of accepting this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64062	Thank you. One correction by Mrs. Susana Bilić Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64063	Dear Mr. Vice President, it's fellow Stazic, I apologize to my distinguished colleague, Vujic. If it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Like this, my colleague Vujic said that... in the Directorate's office and the Programme Council and for the state of Croatian broadcasting, the guilty parliamentary majority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know yourself that this is not true and that no appointment of the 10th or 11 members of the Programme Council has brought the situation into this state. Because you're going to admit to yourself that this is all the law, the law spent in 2003. I am pleased that you support the adoption of a new law that will regulate the role of the Programme Council, the Management Board and the Supervisory Board differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64064	For the HDZ club, Mrs. Representative Sunana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64065	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, respected MPs and MPs, respected director, representatives of the Programme Council and the Directorate. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the addition of the Work Report and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by the Croatian Radio and Croatian Television Act during the period from 14 October 2008 to 24 February 2010 and the Croatian Agency for the operation of HRT in 2009 which, in accordance with the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament from the 18th session, has been delivered by the Croatian Council since 15 July. I will first look at some of the allegations from the Annual Report on HRT's business, and I have to notice that the report from the phonogram shows that HRT had a number of problems in business, so these reports could also be called a collection of rooted problems that should be read again so that someone in the future would not repeat the same thing. In fact, the business year of HRT ended with a loss, but we have heard it today from 106 million kuna, with a total revenue of €464 million, which the HRT failed to cover total expenditures of €570 million. At the end of 2009, marketing revenue was less than planned for 62 million kuna, and revenues from the tax and other revenues were higher by 35 million kuna. The Programme Council of Conclusions of our 18th session is responsible for this House to report specifically on the achievement of the obligations arising from the Law on Gender Equality, and national policies to promote gender equality, which is something the colleague has already said. I would like to express my satisfaction that the need and importance of education is recognised in terms of understanding the very concept of gender equality, and that all gender equality is covered. Because the main problem has been seen to be a lack of understanding of the very concept of gender equality and ways in which a number of social political economic and cultural topics can be effectively processed from a gender-sensitive perspective. In line with their recommendations, it is recommended to conduct a constant education of editors and editors on the integration of gender equality issues in editorial but of course also journalistic work. At the same time, the Council has tasked the Council to submit a special report by 30 September of this year on the implementation of HRT obligations stemming from the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages and the documents governing the obligations of HRT, i.e. on the promotion of gender equality, the promotion of the rights of vulnerable groups. It refers to children, persons with disabilities and others from which it clearly stems that, in connection with programmes for members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the National Minority Council are making extraordinary efforts and resources, which will ultimately continue to take place. However, when we talk about public service and meeting the role of HRT in this regard, I must also refer to the part relating to the information programme, and something has already been done by my predecessors. First of all, on the central HTV Dnevnik where they find topics such as investment, foreign investment, topics outside I will say daily depression but also topics that are important not only for local communities but for the overall economic perception of the country. I'll give you one example. It's been a while. A colleague from Sibenik-Knin County told me a few times about him, and I want to say it here one more time. If a billion kunas for water and draining in Croatia are not news to which at least a minute of daily time should be devoted, then we rightly wonder what public interest is. Unfortunately, there are dozens of such examples, but the exception is to the Croatian Radio programs, which keep almost half of the country's radio listeners listening, and the role of the Croatian Radio's information programme as the most credible, most professional source of information has been confirmed. In anticipation of the adoption of the new HRT Act which will define the very sphere of public interest by the contract, we will have a vague picture of how the public role of Croatian broadcasting is actually fulfilled. Despite all the problems and turmoil, however, this leadership is making efforts to stabilise the situation on HRT and public television as soon as possible, and therefore we commend them. The insistence on respecting the Croatian Law on HRT is important in the development of Croatian broadcasting as a public media and Croatian civil society. And while commercial televisions in the war for viewers are very often deaf to some fundamental ones, so we can also say the ethical principles of modern civil society, they are also deafening the laws that regulate media space. I believe that the issue of HRT must not and should not be a question of political prestige, rivalry, fighting between political rivals, that we must indeed sit together, and that is what we have been doing for the last few days, we are trying to overcome these barriers, and offer the best possible solutions and help those health forces of HRT, and I personally believe that there are them, that they are, that they are, and that they are, restructured by the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public, in a way that the HRT really is a public service. And here I will remember lastly on November 21st 1996 when the UN General Assembly declared that day on the world day of television, so it was marked three days ago, a medium that holds power, some will say the media that owns the illusion, but also has a large role in the development of democracy and political participation of citizens, and therefore its public role is extremely significant. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support further reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64066	Thank you. HNS Club, HSU, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64067	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the Programme Council and the Directorate. This supplemental report is actually a creamworks, because today we talk about what was going on in HRT's 2008 business a little declassified, and unserious, because if we can say anything else that in many ways is now worse than it was in 2008, and that actually reports of this type serve as a calculation of a management team with the one that was before. What can and must worry is the fact that Croatian broadcasting is a public information service, established by the Croatian Parliament, and we cannot and must not run away from our responsibility, and I always repeat responsibility is always on the ruling majority, because it makes decisions for the state of the HRT. The situation is worse than ever. Worse than ever because of the implementation of what must be done, so restructuring with a reduction in the number of employees, but without any clear criteria and with such danger to compromise the programme. I hear that yesterday at a meeting on HTV it was said that the program can't be sacred cows, so at the cost of jeopardizing the program, some people should be removed from HTV, and I'm asking what should be sacred cows on TV if it's not a program? Could it be cameras, corridors, ceilings, floors, cables? The program is the essence of television. She doesn't exist without him. So if, from some of the editorials of this class, 10, 15 or 20 people who carry the program, while the unemployed remain on the payroll, then the question is, what are the criteria? And how was it even possible for someone to be a part of Croatian radio television for 22 years? How was it possible that someone was working all day, so it's not about correspondents who work one, five, three hours a week, occasionally, from a remote place, from the island, but it's about people who create a program, producers, people who are directly in the program, in its creation. How is it possible for someone to be there for 15 years that he's not busy and that today he's leaving, and that those who are formally on the payroll have no fear, because someone else was doing a job until yesterday for them, probably they won't work tomorrow. It is not a problem, therefore, that Croatia's broadcasting needs to be restructured, it is said that son qua non of its survival is condicated, and it is not a problem that a certain number of people must go away, but it is a question of who is leaving, by which criteria, which will remain. Does the creative part of the story go away and the creative part of that team, or do people who don't deserve their pay leave? According to many information, officials at several levels are not competent to assess it so well. And there are serious indications that the waist is not listening, and that there may be a direct threat not only to the quality of the program, but to the setting of the program. And then what happened in 2008 is completely ridiculous compared to what's happening now. We see that some parties would edit a program on HTV, some would edit a diary, as if it weren't enough so far. Well, it's hard to put anything positive in the 30-minute journal, obviously the end of so many circuses and scandals that are produced every day. So there's one competitive television, there's a journal that lasts an hour so it doesn't get in to push in any positive emissions, or information because there's so much garbage that's accumulated in society, social trash, political junk that pollutes the space of cultural, sociological, political... And by the way, that's right, that's right, fellow Markovanovic, I agree. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're probably a good expert in that regard. So, what are we surprised at? As soon as you start talking about something that's not in your best interests, gentlemen of the HDZ, the story of Cacic opens right away, right? Now, let's take that opportunity when the Vice President of the Parliament won't warn you what you're jumping into the speaker's word. I know you'd be the happiest to have at least a piece of cards where you can charge and bring Mr. Cacic to court and to do so in these seven years if you could. But what will you do when you can't. It's not easy for you to see him show up on HTV, but what you're going to do when he's an interesting talker, when he has something to say, when he has what... Mrs. Vardic, I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm saying this exactly because you won't let me talk about the subject, getting like we're on a towel.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64068	Look, I'm sorry, but let me say something about this.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64069	Well, finally, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64070	Yeah. When you call and invite MPs like this, it suits you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64071	I wouldn't even notice that they're there considering how much they work, but they're getting you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64072	Yes, that is why it is cast upon you, for you call upon them in a certain way, for you call upon them. It's a kind of rhetorical figure that's known in rhetoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64073	So our interaction is established, we love each other, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64074	Yeah, yeah, according to that one, let's go crazy tonight.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64075	Given the conditions in which HRT functions in permanent tension and schizophrenic atmosphere for more than 2 years, the program that creates the program is of top quality. Given what capacities and people will be working on this programme in the future after such a implemented restructuring of the HTV programme is not bad, and it is likely that there will be a disturbance precisely because you are working as most in this Assembly to prevent a very important process of final appointment of a permanent administration, the final appointment of members of the Programme Council who are not in conflict of interest as you claimed, because it is both the parliamentary commission and once you have pulled that cat by the tail, when you have disrupted relations, then you are suddenly guilty of the law, and they are always responsible for people. People sitting in the administration, people sitting in the Program Council. If the situation in the Programme Council were normal, cooperative, creative, no matter how critical, I wouldn't say mass cases of resignations because 3 resignations is very much. They're people who didn't come to the boat, they came here to do a serious job. The result of what the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament is doing is that today we only have 6 people in the Programme Council, which is a key body that should oversee the programme and carry out public service functions is not able to function. As much as we talk and keep quiet about it, the fact is that it's your responsibility. The HNS-HSU club will not be able to support this report and protest because as the ruling majority you ignore the situation on television on which the state of emergency is ruling.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64076	Thank you. A few corrections. First, Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64077	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, let me correct the incorrect quote when you say it's hard to push, the program is thought to be something else in the Dnevnik next to so much garbage and scandals that are happening. That's an incorrect claim. The correct claim is that bad news, scandals, depression, and I don't know what's going on everywhere in the world, but we don't need to dominate our program, we don't need to spread dissatisfaction or dissatisfaction like that. And I agree with a statement I recently read where a man who visited Croatia says: "A lot of what I saw in Croatia I liked and none of what I heard." We need some optimism.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64078	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64079	Here's what I have to do to correct an esteemed colleague who said we don't even have a piece of paper against his distinguished party president. We've got a lot of paperwork that obviously didn't make it to the DORH. Here, last night I learned the report from the Financial Police in 2001 that mail didn't arrive, the mass of contracts, etc., and his president's reputation is normally known not only in this country but also in neighbouring countries. That's normal, right? And here's what I'm sorry, buddy, is just one sentence, which wasn't in power in '46. You'd achieve an envious reputation and success probably.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64080	Mr. Representative Goran Maric, the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64081	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Beus, said, quote: "The state on HTV has never been worse." That's not true, and you're wondering how it's possible that an employee works for 22 years? The situation years before this was much worse, chaotic, irresponsible, disorganized, ruled by the will of individuals, a state where no one had cared for people coming to work for years, whether they worked at all, where they spent time and ran the company those who preferred both society and a cup and restaurants, not HTV. And this administration needs to suffer because it's the bearer of bad news. Finally, it turned out who falsified the financial reports, who hired falsely, how many employees have paid regularly, and doesn't come to work at all while the workers have been doing business for years. The problem on HTV is not the fees you put in because they've done most of the work, the problem is employees, and that's the big part of the employees who've only been getting paid by HTV for years, and they don't come to HTV at all, and they have all the privileges. But we finally have a real picture of the situation on HTV, and that's why this administration doesn't have to suffer for what it presented to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64082	And Mrs. Representative Sunny Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64083	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Beus and I like to change in benches like this, but I have to correct you, my colleague Beus, you said the ruling majority ignores the situation on HRT. No, exactly the opposite. As you can see, we're not ignoring anything, we're just doing a new law that's coming to our session tomorrow, and as you mention, it's producing an existing law. So, by new law, all those who care about public television will introduce order into public television, they will already be made to mention a contract that will define the area of public interest, so if you are the same that the final order is being introduced then I think you will agree that the proposal of the law and given that the mentioned schizophrenic conditions still give us a little more dignity when we talk about people who work there on Croatian broadcasting are doing top-of-the-line professionals, and I believe, of course, they are still doing it or are not doing those who need to be tracked, but we are not here to decide or do it, but the house itself will do it. The same way I think it's wrong when you say you haven't noticed us, you have to notice us because we are still the ruling majority in this House, and what you have to discuss about all the points because there are very few of you, then you are... perhaps a little more often than we are in this Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64084	An individual debate, Mrs. Representative Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64085	Thank you, Vice President. I have to admit that when I received that document, that addition to the report that I was very surprised, because after that salva of criticism that we as MPs and MPs gave to the first report, a man would expect this report to be much more critical and self-critical and more serious than it was the first document. Unfortunately, I do not see any significant step forward, or improvement in relation to that first document that we have so brutally criticized and which we have not given the passage and which is why we have had to make this addition to the Report that we are ultimately discussing in the Assembly today. It tells me that in principle it's a problem, now I'm talking about gender equality, such that the staff, the programming board, but generally people on television just don't understand it. I'm going to start with some pretty banal things, which is the language of the report, which is still, or is still not entirely gender-sensitive, regardless of what the report is saying about a working-sensitive problem would at least expect it to be used if nothing else is natively sensitive. This is not the case here, because in some situations it is spoken in a natively sensitive language, but in most other situations it is not used in a natively sensitive language. This indicates a very low level of sensitivity, the responsible persons on HTV according to gender equality issues in general. The lack of understanding of gender equality at all is evident from the list of emissions that allegedly address gender equality issues, so we found in that list all the emissions or certain parts of the emissions related to, say, family issues, some health issues as if they were absolutely female issues, as if they were not all people's problems. This is also inadmissible, because this creates a woman's ghetto topic that women in Croatia are pushed into that they are forced in principle to participate in topics that concern only this kind of domain. The situation regarding advertising content and birth stereotypes that they continue to represent and promote is just scandalous and I can't really believe that Croatian television is not able to do anything about simply rejecting advertising content that supports gender stereotypes but is still constantly happening, regardless of what we say in this Report and other media reports not only on Croatian television but generally on television. It is also unacceptable to ignore education obligations on these issues and to explain that simply journalists and editors did not want to respond to gender equality education is a pretty bad explanation and I think a certain kind of coercion should be done and financial punishment on this issue. The use of natively sensitive language on HTV is still problematic in one part. In fact, often talkers on shows, regardless of what people are meant by women's sex, when presented in the functions or jobs they perform, are spoken of as ministers, directors and the like, it is unacceptable. If she is already a female, then you can at least present her in function in a gender sensitive context. The dispersion of male female partners or conversants per type of show is also scandalous. On important topics such as politics, economy and other topics that have a certain high importance in society, we mainly have interlocutors that are of course male sex, and when it comes to some shows that are more frivolent tonnes or are fun to this type, then we will generally have conversants on these issues. Of course television can do something about it and no one says there should be entertainment shows but the question of whether such content should also promote a gender stereotype that women and those who deal more with such topics are involved in such topics, and about important issues of society are those who should talk about these topics exclusively men. And we always have some justification in these reports why it wasn't possible to place more gender equality topics, so we're meeting this justification for objective circumstances. However, there is no explanation anywhere that these were objective circumstances and why we are not able to have real gender equality on Croatian television as a public television, but it is constantly prolonging something, so the question is whether we will have an addition to this 2008 report, or what? I really think it's just amazing that after that criticism we had on that first report, it's possible that we are discussing this type of report in parliament today. Finally, I will look back at another issue that is also a question of gender equality, which is a question of the rights of sexual and gender minorities, which is also being addressed on television in a rather unusual context, and I would ask that more attention be paid to gender equality and this problem that has not found any important place in this report in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64086	Thank you. And Madam Representative Karolina Leakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64087	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear gentlemen, representatives of HRT and the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. In the context of this debate, I want to actually look back at the current situation or the events on HRT in the last few months or weeks, because I think they have much to do with the content of these two reports. First, I appeal to receive a future business report for the past year, not at the end of the current year, but in the first quarter, perhaps next year. I believe that it is also a difficult circumstance that we are actually discussing today the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programming principles and obligations laid down by the HRT Act in a situation where the Programme Council has been acting in the back of its system, and the entire HRT administration has actually been a temporary administration for a year. And after so many months of that temporaryity, she hardly enjoys legitimacy any more. I am sure that it does not enjoy the trust of HRT employees who, or at least, have shown that in the last few weeks of their actions, have expressed their dissatisfaction with the way HRT is managed now or in a way that does not devastate HRT as a public common good. And that's how a house spreads an atmosphere of fear and uncertainty where decisions are made by a veil of secrets, where public surveillance is actually gone, where we account for the public. And all comments, recommendations or appeals that benefit, for the benefit of, well-intentioned HRT come from a circle of journalists, people who deal with media, film, creative industries, science culture actually encounter rejection. Because it seems to me that the current interim director of HRT didn't actually come to HRT to fix public radio television that really needed a good creative injection, but that you actually set up Mr. Popovac there to end HRT as public radio. I don't know in whose interest, I don't want to speculate, but I do find that your actions are being condemned and the people who are working on HRT alone, and I'm sure you know that, because otherwise you wouldn't be locking yourself up in your office while people are protesting in front of you in front of the HRT building a few days ago. I wouldn't look specifically at certain points of the Programme Council's report, because what I said works in the back of the system. There's been a lot of debate in the House about why it's like that and I don't want to talk about it. But I repeat that the state of temporaryity on HRT has been going on for over a year practically since the head director and branch directors were elected to their posts temporarily for 6 months and three of them on 9.12.2009. With the council confirming the VD's mandate for another 6 months after the first 6 months. And as far as I know, it wasn't done for the branch director, so I'm asking Mr. Milos to plead on that fact if possible. I ask, does this mean that Mr. Mihajlović and Stipic actually act outside the law and, if that is true, who made it possible for them and why is this happening? I would also like to know today if it is possible, Mr Popovac, why the public is not allowed to see into the plan of restructuring of HRT which the government has returned to repair or to do so. Until when must an improved, improved restructuring plan be submitted, and why did the government actually return it? Did he return it because you wrote that you would fire too few people and whether your restructuring plan is actually a different name for firing people who are working on the production of the programme, which performs the public function of HRT and without whose engagement HRT cannot function in a way that all of us who participate in its funding are expecting. Those who think differently and those who think that the HRT programme must produce people who are full-time employees on HRT, I think they have big problems with understanding the way the creative process works and thus question the quality of the HRT programme and also in many other ways harm Croatian culture, science, education and so on. I will repeat once again that the issue of public television is a strategic issue for the Republic of Croatia, that HRT is much more than an information programme and one's toy ahead of parliamentary elections that all citizens and citizens in the Republic of Croatia must very much care for the financial stability of HRT, that its business is orderly, that the spending of funds from marketing access be clearly separated and that it is known what individual funds can be spent on. Finally, it is very important for HRT to continue to finance the Croatian audiovisual industry and to set out by law the amount of funds in the Croatian audiovisual centre. Please respond to the situation with HRT obligations in this regard, because we know that commercial television publishers, and even telecom operators do not pay funds to the Croatian Audiovisual Centre and thus directly harm Croatian culture in general? HRT must not allow it, we must not allow it because HRT must continue to be a partner not only in Croatian film but also in Croatian music and culture in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64088	Thank you. Two repairs one replica. First correction, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64089	Thank you very much. counterpart Leakovic, speaking of the illegality of this administration, said "This administration does not enjoy the confidence of HTV employees". It can't be exactly, because no one or anyone else can know if they enjoy employee trust. No one's ever done that kind of research. But I guess we're not going to bring in managements like that and they were competing for a director like they did in former companies when the executives were giving loans to companies in Chačka worth 5 million marks and never charged them. And they competed and spent 20 years working on HTV and they're doing nothing, and the situation isn't idyllic. I'm just taking this as an example. There's a problem now. For example, the teletext works unprofessionally. Teletext broadcasts HINA reports and extracts pretentious titles and false titles that cannot be derived from the text of HINA news. That's why a lot of complaints arrive at one of the deputy ladies. And I think it's time you replaced that deputy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64090	Second correction Mr. Representative Ivo Škaričić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64091	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I believe Mrs. Leakovic's incorrect quote was made when the interim director was brought to finish the radio. It turns out that radio television is failing both human and programically, which I don't think is true at all. For me personally, the most quality program of HTV is more quality than commercial television, especially Dnevnik, an information program that I think is very objective and gives space to everyone. It is also an incorrect assumption that HRT is someone's toy ahead of parliamentary elections. I believe that HRT is absolutely no one's toy nor can it be, and that claim of yours should be supported by evidence or at least by an assumption of whose toy it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64092	Replica, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64093	My colleague Leakovic, when you talk about Croatian public television, you particularly point out that Croatian broadcasting for Croatia is indeed an institution of strategic importance and that is indeed the case. And we as a small country, regardless of all the faults that we highlight here, must simply cultivate the Croatian Radio Television cult as public television. In any case, it can be better. However, announcements that regional centres will be shut down are dangerous and worrying. If Croatian TV has fallen into financial difficulties, then it is not because of these centres and people here who have been mentioned and who are working hard on production rather than because of them, and it is probably someone who is guilty, because they received enormous profits, and Croatian radio televisions have not seen it. Everyone knows everything about it already. Therefore, these questions I want now the answer to who comes from Croatia's broadcasting through certain regional centres, saying that they are doing nothing, that they are not needed etc. Croatian radio centres need our smaller environments, Dubrovnik, Sibenik, Zadar, continental Croatia, Čakovec and everywhere. They are of such great importance to information, especially in the smaller environments of our audience. And yet another question, here I don't see, it may have happened earlier, the Croatian Radio Television had its valuable properties, land, so I ask the question when, how and why and to whom a large field of ownership was sold, once owned by Croatian radiotelevision in Zadar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64094	Finals. The president of the HRT Program Council, who's going before? All right, then, V.D. Mr. Josip Popovac, director-in-chief of HRT. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64095	Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. I'll go in the back, it's easier because I'm fresher. So, on the special inquiry of the distinguished Ms. Marinović, as far as this is concerned in Zadar, I am familiar with the case, so that terrain fell into a divorce case with transmitters and links to the company "Transmitters and Connections" in 2002 and are still property of "The Transmitter and Connection". So in the shared balance, I don't know why or how it went I have to admit it, but in the shared balance, that field went to Zadar with "Transmitters and Connections" as well as some other properties and so as they decided at the time, so the law that the Croatian Parliament passed at the end. As for the last days, i.e. the debate of the distinguished representative Leakovic and the esteemed representative of Mr Beus, two things are only very difficult sometimes, and also large professionals to clarify two things, and I tried on TV and we also talked to the trade unions, with journalists, with representatives of the Croatian Journalist Society. Two things are crucial. One is that the outside cooperation you said was creative everywhere. No one in their right mind keeps a screenwriter on his salary, no one in their right mind keeps on the payroll of the directors of the great playful things of film, nor does he have any money for it, nor is that possible. Therefore, such copyright cooperation and such external cooperation will certainly remain. But after 15, 20 years came the end of a single slave relationship that has been tolerated for years, which is that by the basis of a contract on work and the basis of permanent performance and authorial contracts, you had a de facto hidden working relationship. The criterion of the moment when these things were observed, given that there are severe penalties, large penalties and Croatian broadcasting like me, the criterion was only one. For years, this thing has been trying to get rid of it, so we've tried to reduce the outsiders by 15, 20, where possible, and every time the program falls apart, it's just for that person's sake. It's human, and I understand that. It's about human fate, it's about people who have worked here for 15 years, it's about my colleagues at the end of the line that I worked with. But the question is, whether or not the concept of it was V.D. Chief Director had the support or he didn't have it, I have the right to break the law. Now, I'm also the directorate of the grandma horn when I finally stick to the State Inspectorate Act, you know what he could have done, come to the Dnevnik and seal the directorship. And what would happen then, if once the journal didn't go because that's what the State Inspectorate has the right to do. In Pula, there was a case, we had a journalist regularly on the work contract, there was a labour inspection, she found it at work, she proved it was an undercover working relationship, and the company paid 30,000 kuna fines, so that things like that wouldn't happen anymore. And one more thing, those outsiders were really working because I've been on TV for a long time, and I know how they've been coming and everything I'm telling you right now I've told the unions. A good part of the permanent employees took out outside associates who did it for them, and it took years. Then at one point you had a situation that certain external associates made a lot of money because they worked very hard. We worked 20 shows a month. Then there was the profit. Then there's some bosses there in 2000, 2002, there's somewhere, and I remember because I was working as a producer then, so they said look like this, so you can't have more pay than I do, so how does this one make so much money? And you know what they did? They put them on a cobwebs, up to 10 grand a month you can make money, if you don't, nothing. What happened, this one doesn't do 30 shows anymore because now he's back in the situation that he's working, no radio is going to make just as much money. And that's how he got the number of outside associates. There have been several attempts in the past, received in the working relationship. Again, there was a number of outside associates, but it was an illegal situation. And then when I get the question, why don't we get rid of these drones? Yes, there are. But you have the Labour Act adopted by the Croatian Parliament, and it is not possible to put any of that person in the care program if there is an external associate in the same workplace. The court will get him back to work right away. And it's not true that the program is compromised. Where there were exactly cases, they responded immediately and people were admitted to work. But we simply can't service the situation when we're saving on everything that's possible for the program to function normally, to put up with the situation so that we can be overcompensated. According to the new law, that is, by the oatmeals that we now have towards the European Union and what we must subdue our product cannot cost more than that product costs on the market. And the order was that, unfortunately, we had to thank outsiders first so that we could, first we have to offer them jobs to those same people who are employed because they have the same right to work. That's a pretty complex legal issue. And it's not about the grandma horn that does it. A colleague in a department on television these days said, is what I'm doing now, boom, I'm working on my old days, because that's what it is. That's how it was, you're well-informed. But there's also a background legal, there are penalties, there are violations, sanctions and criminal responsibility. And another way was not to get rid of that illegality as well as a bunch of other illegalities that we've had to solve and solve in the last 10 months. What I would still refer to, and that's the debate between distinguished MPs Mirjana Petir, if I'm not mistaken. Marianne, I'm sorry. So, "Peace and good" and "Ecumen", "The First Voice" and those two shows are certainly not the issue. [[That's the cute little Mariana.]] So "Peace and Good" is like a brand of Croatian radio television. I was also a producer of Ecumen. It was also a matter of talking about changes to the captain of certain emissions for the simple reason of the new scheme, so that Croatia's broadcasting of its legal obligations under the programme and the achievement of its public function will continue. But that certain business policies that have been the rule so far have I said that not all cows are no longer business policies and they have to change not just because we want them to, but because it's our legal obligation. And again in the end, we're all talking about change. Somewhere with these changes needs to start. Everyone says there will be painful changes and painful cuts. It was not pleasant to do what we did, but unfortunately it was legal and the only solution we could legally make, because we couldn't accept them all in a working relationship because we have a collective contract that limited the number of employees to 3435 this year we have it. So it's a maximum number and it can never be bigger. So there are a number of parameters for these decisions and for these actions that have been implemented. And I have to tell you that in a week things still work out. Some who have not worked remembered their skills and I think they will exercise their right to work. And as for creative occupations, we will fulfill our legal obligation. We will take creative interests from the market clearly according to the project, but then it's not a hidden working relationship but it's an author's contract, an authorial collaboration without which it's not possible to do a movie or a lot of things today, and it's too clear to us. Besides, I've personally done such things my whole life, and I think I'm more competent than many professionals who've certainly never looked at that part of the production. There was another particular inquiry of yours, which is the legality of the branch director. So, as far as V.D. is concerned, The term of office was prescribed for the Director-General, and neither the Statute nor the Law speaks of branch directors in this way, so we received an opinion from the Ministry of Culture as well as from independent legal experts to subsidically apply the Law on Institutions which gave the possibility that they would actually be V.D. They stay until the first man is chosen. Here's what's gonna happen. I hope to get rid of this new law. The bill says so, so as far as the legality of the term of office is concerned, I think I've said everything about it. As far as restructuring is concerned, I don't think the restructuring has begun. You know what, this was only a regular business and the removal of damages from Croatian broadcasting and the harmonisation of business with legality. And I can also document that for any person for whom you ask how much damage and what consequences could have been. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64096	One correction, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64097	Thank you very much. Comrade Pupovac, here you have heard from me before how much I have commended the work of the administration. I appreciate the rationalization, the savings you're doing, but I just can't accept as your claim we're saving on anything that's possible as perfectly accurate. Because if the restructuring process hasn't even started yet, you've prevented damage, and only the savings are coming. But the latest news I've received is not in favor. Is it possible that hundreds and hundreds of employees who remain without a job on HTV and fees could not be selected from among them by a spokeswoman but chosen from outside? A minute ago I received such news, where one person quits and is admitted to a permanent working relationship on HTV. So what selection is it if 400, 500 HTV employees who have been leaving their lives on HTV for years are unable to be a spokeswoman. So I don't agree that it's total savings and this is the wrong message. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64098	Mr. Zvonko Milas, president of the HRT Program Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64099	Thank you very much. I'll just take a minute. This was directed to Mr. Pupovac. I'll just say that all well-intentioned criticisms towards the work of the Council are indeed accepted, but once and for all to resolve so-called. a transparent council. I'm sorry Mr. Beus isn't here. He says his own thing and then he disappears as much as I've noticed. We were able to react in the way that some members of the Council who resigned, say the moment when we elected a candidate, or the person for the principal director, when these same council members who resigned chose the person who had therefore been fired and who was proven to have been malfeasances, so alienating Croatian radiotelevision money, did not prevent them from giving the same person their voice, regardless of the administration, therefore, of the man's proven claims, in a way that she had fired him, that she had fired him. So that's what he says about the job itself, so that's what he says about these people, but that's what he says about the critics we could move, but since we didn't move long ago when this country was meant to be created, we're not going to move now as long as we all do it honestly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64100	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9:30 with this report on the exercise of legal aid rights and the expenditure of 2009 and reports on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2010 on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-24-0.u64101	Ninth, addition of the report on the work of the Croatian Programme Council and on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations set out by the HRT Act in HR and HRTV programmes in the period from 14 October 2008 to 24 February 2010, Croatian Agency Reports on HRT operations in 2009, Annual Report 2009 Proposer of the Programme Council of Croatian Television. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: It is noted that the report on the work of the Croatian Labour Council and on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by the HRT Act in the HRT and HRTV programmes during the period from 14 October 2008 to 24 February 2010, the HRT Director's Report on HRT's operation in 2009, the Annual Report of the HRT for 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This addition to the Report was accepted by the majority of vote 69 votes in favour, 30 abstentions and 1 against. The Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Assembly to draw two other conclusions, which reads: First, the Croatian Programme Council of Croatians is obliged to report specifically in the following Report on the implementation of Croatian obligations to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the Law on Croatians and the conclusions of the Croatian Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia from 1 July 2008 and secondly: the Director and the Programme Council of the Croatians are obliged to issue existing emissions to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia on the uncoded 1st Croatian programme. I shall put to the vote the first proposal for a conclusion of the Committee. Let us please include and vote on the first proposal of the Committee's conclusion. Score. This one. The board's conclusion was unanimously accepted by 92 votes. I am voting on the second proposal for a conclusion of the Committee. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This second proposal was accepted by the majority of 82 votes in favour and 1 abstention and nothing against. The Committee on Information, Information and Media has proposed to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads as follows: Supplements to the Report on the work of the HRT Programme Council and on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by the HRT Act in the HR and HTV programmes during the period from 14 October to 24 February 2010. HRT Directorate Report on HRT's business since 2009, Annual Report for 2010. This proposal is groundless because the first one to be taken into consideration has been accepted.
