ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60614	Mr. President of the Parliament. Before I start, I want to express my bitterness. Before today's session, we went to see which one we were in line for a speech. I signed up last week, and that's when I got the information from Mr. Bukarica's secretary that I was the first person to discuss it. I know that at least 10 of my colleagues called after me before they called from the other clubs. Now it turns out I'm not the first, I'm the third, and the first one behind me is only 10. No, I'm not talking about myself. I'm talking about all the other clubmates and colleagues, because as far as I know on Friday, there were at least the first 15 from our club. I know that nothing is obviously going to change, but I think it's time to know and it's not right to mix applications in this way or to choose to find a different way to log in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60615	Thank you. This is the first case that such an observation was made at the beginning of the session, because I have not noticed so far that it would be manipulated at all with the applications regarding who it is when it submitted the application. However, here is the secretary of the plenary session who knows it. I'll check it out later, see how it went. I don't think we have any reason to doubt it until proven otherwise. Let's move on. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. We move on as I announced at the agenda point - Proposal to launch a trust issue for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Jadranka Kosor Proposers: 58 MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Representatives of the Croatian Parliament raised a question of confidence from the Prime Ministers under Article 116. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 113 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The government was obvious in this proposal. You took the government's testimony to the benches. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Before I give my word to the proposer's representative, I would like to warn and ask the representatives of the Croatian Parliament to stick to parliamentaryism in this debate, that anything can be said in a decent but not offensive manner. I ask you to stick to it, because there are certain Rules of Procedures which I will strictly apply, and I would not want to but I would ask you to remain in the context of a normal debate that can be fierce, it can be temperament, it can be of course justified but should not be offensive to anyone. Not for the Prime Minister, not for the ministers, not for the MPs. I ask you to keep it at this session, to be one debate, of course, sharp, temperamental, political, reasoned and all that should be, but not personally offensive and not to use words that are not suitable to be used in the Croatian Parliament. That's why I ask you all, regardless of the right or left side where we sit, and I hope that's how this session is going to be. I don't know why Mr. Damir Cain is looking for a word now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60616	Your Honor, Mr. President. Since we have a dozen, fifteen rectifiers on the other side of the curve, and since those who speak in front of clubs can't answer the Rules of Procedure, I would suggest that we make maybe one experimental amendment, so that even those who have to listen to all these replicas can respond as nicely to them as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60617	... discussing and violating the rules of procedure. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] It's the way it is. An incorrect quote can be corrected to the club's representative, but it can't be replicated. When an individual discussion can be one and the other. We'll stick to that, because that's what the Rules of Procedure says. And neither is this session nor is this opportunity an example if we had to experiment on something, so that experiment would also be said it's contrary to the Rules of Procedure I would have to accept it if it were. Let's move on. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60618	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. This is not a good start, and colleague Sobol voiced her position as a witness, so word for word and doubt about manipulation in a schedule to be spoken by the MPs. Well, that's just to let the public know. She's a witness. He's not a penitent witness. It also works for the public, because what we are doing on behalf of 58 MPs who have signed and I believe in the name of the Croatian public we are doing as our business and we consider our own representative's duty to discuss the confidence of the Prime Minister at a difficult time for Croatia today. Politically speaking, whether this is a debate on the Prime Minister, whether it is a debate on the government as a whole and not crucial. We can interpret it one way or another, leave it one way or another, but the consequences are the same. It votes for the confidence of one policy, one continuity of politics, one practice and the consequences of that policy. Since it is important for the public to be informed of everything that is happening these days, I will begin with yesterday's correspondence regarding a meeting that the Prime Minister called for tomorrow. It's a very important topic for me and it concerns this whole complex of issues, it's a context. So, the Prime Minister made an invitation to me personally the day before yesterday to ask me to attend a meeting dedicated to a meeting or to discuss all activities related to the completion of Croatia's accession negotiations with the European Union, which will be held tomorrow at 12 pm in the government. I answered that on behalf of the SDP, on behalf of the HNS, Liberal Democrats, IDS and HSU, which reminds the Prime Minister on behalf of the four parties that on Wednesday, October 27th, the Parliament is on the agenda to vote non-confidentially on the agenda, that this is our initiative, and that in calling for "a meeting on all activities related to the completion of accession negotiations", we see primarily marketing motives, not state motives. It's a letter we sent to the public. Unfortunately, given the letter, given the contents of the letter, in its format, to the complete ambiguity of who is calling, which will be precisely the subject of the talks, so who will be at the meeting I had to conclude that it was unfortunately the practice of its predecessor, Ivo Sanader. That is exactly what the magazine meetings were called, and it was never notified of who would be at those meetings. So in order to protect the simple dignity of this House, this is our view, you see different, and our parties in agreement with these parties have responded like this and ended up independently of the results of Wednesday's vote, because we are legalists, we propose as responsible Croatian politicians with numerous European political and state ties one seriously prepared meeting on the subject of the final conclusion of negotiations with the European Union. That's what Mrs. Kosor answered yesterday that it's a form of hate and that I'm trying to, at this point I have to be a little bit and personal, turn everything into dust and ash. Well, Mrs Kosor went to Brussels to talk to the President of the European Commission and the Vice President of the Commission. After that, we heard their statements. The Commission President's statement was very cold and distant... I was not satisfied as a Croatian politician. [[The noise in the hall, the intruder doesn't understand.]] Slowly, we'll come to what you said two years ago, just patiently. So she sent this message, a message of hatred and a desire to turn everything into dust and ash, a party that had a prime minister, who had a minister of foreign affairs, who had a minister of defence and who had a minister of European integration and who had done absolutely everything in those four years to get Croatia on the European path, to get candidate status, to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement and to make Croatia go the right way. Here's a statement from the President of the Croatian Government. I don't have a comment on it, but for the sake of the public, I have to say it. Our thesis is, not our thesis, our belief that Croatia has become a hostage to internal conflicts in HDZ and that such a situation must cease. There was one debate in this House two years ago, a debate on the confidence of the Prime Minister. I quote: "Stay here when it's hard, especially because it's hard because you haven't done some things or done them the wrong way. And as it is said in America that the commander-in-chief is the head of state, the commanding chef, so is the one who escapes at a difficult moment the ultimate fugitive, the fugitive and the chef. Well, I hope that after today's October 22, 2008, Mr. Sanader will not be a top fugitive but will remain in charge and irresponsible." Those were my words in this House and these are the HDZ gentlemen's best proof that we are SDP and your former president for two full years. I knew what would happen eight months later. You're right gentlemen, yes, we make plans, we float, we knew everything in the 10th month of 2008, take a stenogram and read it. The only thing we didn't know, we didn't know what was going to be the scale of that more fugitive, and they're enormous. So that's proof of keeping the lottery two years old. On our letter, i.e. on our document, which requires the launch of a trust issue to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on three basis. The first basis is that it is responsible for the increasingly poor economic situation and the lagging behind of Croatia and economic depression. The second point is that it is responsible for not implementing the necessary reforms in the country for which Croatia has been stagnating for years, it has failed to complete negotiations with the European Union for years. And on a third basis, in my opinion the most important and certainly motivated at this time to initiate this procedure, which is that this government, headed by Mrs Kosor, has lost all political and moral credibility, that Croatia is a hostage to the dynasty struggles in the HDZ and that such a situation must cease in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, in the interests of national stability, in the interest of implementing reforms and in the interest of Croatia's entry into the European Union. I am saying this on behalf of the party whose president I am for three years, which laid the foundations and set the way for Croatia to join NATO and the European Union. No parties of hatred, no parties of discord, no parties of manipulation on any basis, no parties of corruption, no parties of robbery of state-owned enterprises, no parties of thieving. The European parties that carry out their work and their mission in the most honest way according to the highest standards and that is our goal and that is our job. But here today we're talking about you colleagues and colleagues. So the government has lost all credibility as far as we're concerned. The highest government and HDZ officials are being investigated, charged with suspected crimes of serious crime, heavy robbery, money withdrawals, and that is something that in every country, in every democratic order, causes concern, causes restlessness, and causes political reactions. This is a political reaction, and today it will be a political debate in which we will not save evidence, attitudes, so if you want and harshly, I am convinced that colleagues and colleagues will be restrained when it comes to vocabulary and refrain from the insults that we always try to do. But in which we shall ask for truth to be cast out into purgatory. In Croatia, for almost a year, we have been watching as the practice of a political organisation is tightened, a practice which finally, after several years of silence, was finally recognised by the State's Attorney's Office and the USKOK, a practice that results in criminal charges and proceedings against highly ranked and responsible people. And that's a political problem. It is a valuable problem for Croatia. Practices that the state and public property are considered to be something private. And I agree that we have to fight it. The only question is who was invited to fight it in Croatia, who has moral, professional, working capacity and who doesn't. Croatia is suffering under HDZ at the moment and is being violated by its international reputation, regardless of what you have different interpretations. The Prime Minister was in Brussels the other day, she went there because it was the job of the Prime Minister. For me it was a marketing visit, for Mrs. Kosor it was an important state visit. The result of this visit is a warm friendly hug and solidarity and one cold, distanced, state-run assessment by the president of the Commission who said he did not know when Croatia would finish negotiations and that everything depends on us. There, colleagues and colleagues, this is the result of a visit to Brussels. But please, I very much support these contacts because they are in the description of the work of the Prime Minister and the previous and current Prime Minister and the current Prime Minister. The economic situation in Croatia is bad. I will not compare Croatia with Kyrgyzstan because it is not right. It's been a figure of speech these past few weeks. Croatia has a strong potential to be a successful, rich country of free market, but also a space of freedom both private, space of security and space of entrepreneurial freedom. Croatia is unfortunately not and does not become according to all measurable and real parameters. Croatia is one of the few countries that still stands at a downturn at the moment and will end this year in 2010 with an economic downturn and that is the fact. And I'm not going to compare Croatia for our sake with Kyrgyzia, but I'm going to compare it to all those countries that are comparable around here, that are doing something, that are trying to talk about reforms, and I'm not going to talk to my colleagues about it very briefly. There are many examples. To talk about some successful reforms, about great results, about the launch of an investment cycle, about Croatia standing in response to the government, that Croatia is coming out of the crisis and recording the growth which is not true, that is for each of us to read and have an opinion on it. So that's just not true. But I'll be very clear again. That's not the main reason why we're asking this government to leave. Because that reason existed economically a few months ago. What was happening in this assembly, in the public, is what deeply undermined and so fragile the confidence of people in politics is the responsibility of HDZ, the Croatian Democratic Community, a party that has been acting 16 years of Croatian independence. It's a very long period. And all deformations of the Croatian system, all corruption, all bad habits are the sole responsibility of the ruling party. At this point, Croatia is a country that has a weak international reputation whatever someone wants to write in the government's explanation and whatever someone thinks intimately about it and as much as anyone encourages what is happening in Croatia is a shame, it is a shame. What happens to HDZ officials, and many are listed here, is also a shame but the reality of colleagues and colleagues. It's a reality. Any party may have problems with internal relations. So we were not entirely immune to it either, but it is very important at what level these misunderstandings occur, which are actors in this drama and how they end up. In the case of HDZ, it is a pandemic that simply clapped all of Croatia and Croatia out of that state must come out and must come out as soon as possible. And I can say what you don't like, what you can call a slammer, which you don't want to hear. But I'm not insulting you. And this is our job. I'm doing the work of the Croatian opposition today. We also do our job and so we propose a whole series of regulations, and you reject them. However, as everything should mature, everything and fruit and wine a little bit more in the end, the truth comes to light and things lie in place, so you also accepted our proposal for, after a long rejection, a proposal to abolish the outdated in the privatisation robbery and displayed it as your, excellent, very good. So here you are now I see you accepted and a proposal to criminalise wage default for workers, who half a year ago as a rag you wiped off the table when the SDP proposed it, too with a delay, so I hope you'll accept our third proposal, and that's a suggestion to leave and call the election, but as soon as possible. For God's sake, as soon as possible. This is no longer the condition of Croatia. As far as insinuation is concerned, in order to slow down reforms, in order for Croatia to miss the entry into the European Union, what reforms? Well, we've been negotiating for years and every year, every year the goal is to keep going. You want me to quote what you said here in this assembly in October 2008, then about the discussion of the government's trust, about Croatia's prospects in the European Union, what you said about your former president, you, Mr. Hebrang, you, Mrs. Kosor, you, Mr. Matusic, not to list further. What you said about the objectives and dates of Croatia's entry into the European Union. I find it incorrect, to say the least, today two years later and who knows how many months before Croatia's insecure entry into the European Union, when it comes to the uncertain, to subvert to anyone, to anyone and to at least to the Least of the SDP... Some kind of hatred, some ambition to turn everything into dust and ash. [[You don't understand.]] Gentlemen, it's not a job. And I'm gonna do it a hundred more times today. And I'll answer the word a lot more times, because I have a lot of things to say. And I will not insult you with a single word. But I'll tell you the facts. If the truth offends you, the truth hurts. The truth hurts. Especially in this sense, the government's cheerful defence when it comes to this, this is the government's defense, and this whole document called "demonstration" is written in defense form. The government's activities, particularly the Prime Minister of Jadranka Kosor dipl.iur, should first and foremost be seen from the position of Prime Minister in the segment of the successful and effective fight against the mentioned problem. The Prime Minister, as well as the entire government in the fight against corruption, has primarily a political role and responsibility in creating legal but institutional assumptions. It's a sentence the government tells what it's doing in the fight against corruption. What should we conclude from this? The Prime Minister's arrest? To determine investigations? Because the government's change, or the elections that are being shown as the greatest possible destruction, would be distracted by the Prime Minister. In something that's illegal, so the Prime Minister probably doesn't. She can't do that. That's what some other organs do, and I'm going to say here, have been closing their eyes for many years in front of obvious abuses, and they existed, and we talked about them in 2007 in the campaign. Maybe a little bile, maybe a little too loud, but we were telling the truth, and the truth always comes out eventually. It's like water, it's got its own way. So you're talking about some kind of package of laws. So don't ask us to be entrenched, so let's remember, it's the greatest paradox of the moment when some of these laws were passed. Well, they were brought during the term of office of your previous president, what an irony. That's ironic. And you're referring to those laws. You initiated them. Furthermore, what bothers me in this document, as a Croatian politician, in this response to the government, is calling for some international factors and the international political public, which as a great support of the Prime Ministers, and this is supposed to be a very important thing, and we should reportedly impress Croatian citizens. Well, look, I'll tell you now. We think differently. We think this government is embarrassing Croatia, and we think we should leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60619	Come on, please. Please give three, twice you have offended the Prime Minister and this third time the government, and once you have hardly offended the Croatian Democratic Community, which I will at the end of your presentation here and explain and say.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60620	You can do it now. Tell me how hard it was for me to offend the democratic community.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60621	Please. You've discredited the Prime Minister's moral component twice. You can talk about political qualifications, and in the moral part and in the moral component of any person, and here in this case the Prime Minister is, in my opinion, an insult. The second insult is when you compared the Croatian Democratic Community with the pandemic, i.e. with the general contagion. And third, when you're talking about the disgrace of Croatia. Please, don't declare yourself uninsulted, but you've been insulting yourself the whole time. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60622	I'm glad you see how good it is that I insisted you explain where I offended it. So I stand entirely behind those words. Moral, and here we talk about morality, is an integral part of politics. Nemoralization, non-hitting into private matters, not digging into people's bags, but public morality. This is a sphere of public morality. What are you doing? Who's funding you? Where did you get the property? Where'd you get the movables? How do you finance your client? What money do you finance your client? Where did millions of kunas come from for party campaigns? Where did millions of kunas come from for vehicles? From where? Who asked that question? Who ever raised an eyebrow to those naked facts? Well, you see, Mr. President of the Parliament, when I talk about the moral component, I'm talking about being a politician. And that's why I'm going to insist on the moral component, not on the moralization component, I'm not a preacher or Catholic or Protestant, but I'm a citizen and a representative in this House and the president of a party who claims to do the right job. The voters will decide. So every time you think I'm insulting someone, you feel free to interrupt me, you can do it 20 times. I'll explain to you every time what I meant by that. Yes, I think there are serious moral problems. Yeah, I think there's a serious moral deficit. The government has to be a role model. The government doesn't have to be a moralizer. The government must be made up of people and led by a person who will notice and warn the public at any time. Yes, Croatian services, Croatian lawyers, Croatian police must be made up of people who will at all times enforce the law, not play by inspiration. Who at all times will punish and persecute those for whom there is even the slightest reasonable doubt that they have committed a crime. And we think it wasn't like that. And that's the question and morality, and that's the issue of law enforcement, and that's what modern democratic liberal societies are based on. Yeah, it's our ideology, to believe that, and to worship that book. That's true. So to involve the international public and international factors in the internal political relations of a small one, but I hope that the proud and independent European states, of tomorrow's EU member states that will formally be equal to the largest ones, this is a very serious issue. It's not '99 anymore. years when a coalition headed by one SDP party had to Croatia in very delicate circumstances, Croatia away from Europe, Croatia away from NATO, to return to the right path and put and track the way towards the EU. Croatia has come a long way since 2000 regardless of all deformities. Croatia, unfortunately, has retarded in some things and has retreated backwards. And it bothers me, let's say, I find it unworthy of the Prime Minister as an institution, correct me, Mr. President, if you think there's something offensive in my words, that the Prime Minister is digging through drawers, looking for what was in the contests eight years ago for the assignment of intellectual affairs... And then he finds his dirty conscience and his cobwebs and finds out, am I insulting Mr. President of the Parliament? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] No, I don't. And finds public tenders conducted according to the highest European and world standards, the highest. Well, you see, in that sense, Croatia has gone backwards. Croatia has gone backwards, Croatia has deformed, forgive the President of the Parliament for insulting Croatia, but this is my Homeland of others I do not have. I give the facts, what everyone sees. I express the facts, therefore little respect for Croatia. Don't hide, we've seen that some people like to hide behind things these days to justify their decisions, don't hide behind international factors. For cooperation with Europe absolutely always, we know a lot about it. But decisions in Croatia are made by Croatian people. Our country is entering the EU to finally deprive us of all the excuses that have burdened us and filled our complexes for the last 50, 60, 100 years. It's always been someone else's fault, Belgrade, Pest, Vienna, Istanbul, Berlin, communists, large Serbs, we've all survived, we'll survive something else. But we finally have a chance to be our own on our own and to be our masters in the largest number of questions that we're working on ourselves. Respect Croatia, do not refer to international factors, they are partners, and they are not mentors. I'm sure we can all go without a mentor and so can the HDZ, right? My colleagues and colleagues... It's not over. We've got a long day ahead of us, and we're not gonna make a deal about this. We're gonna talk all day and we're not gonna get tired of it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You will not be pleased to hear it, we are not glad to find ourselves in the situation in which we have found ourselves because it is humiliating for Croatia and it is our duty and we will keep repeating it. So you won't shut us up. Would you like me to quote everything this Reverend Home on this right-hand side said two years ago? Here's a stenogram. Do you have the strength to do that? Do you have the strength? Each of you individually? Deal with each other, but do not traumatize Croatia. Croatia is in an unspeakable situation thanks to the fifth time I repeat it, the dynastic clashes within one party, and the Croatian government has become the power to defend unclean conscience and break up all state-run legal and other ties with the former president. Discard me, you'll have plenty of space and time. So final, for now. This government, in our deep belief and trust even better and stronger arguments, is no longer able to lead Croatia. There is no reform potential, entry into the EU as the declared highest target is delayed indefinitely. Two years ago in this House, you said we were going to join the EU, or close the negotiations in 2009, that didn't happen. It's been two years, and that goal is still on a relatively long stick. This government is a failure, but this government is above all, and I stress it here, primarily responsible for this third reason, because it sets a bad example and paralyzes Croatia in its party conflicts. And you'll hear it today 100 more times. And I believe the President of the Parliament will not correct us in that sense, and we will not be insolent. But that is the truth that the Croatian public must hear. And let's not, we won't even call the polls because the only poll is the election, and for those elections in Croatia it's about time. It's time for someone to take responsibility, it's time for this country to run a fair and good government, a government that will answer to the citizens, a government that will in its root prevent any corruption, a government in which corruption will not happen, and if it happens as soon as it is noticed, those who are responsible for it will be expelled from those parties' heads. ... That's what we've been doing for years, what I practice, what I believe, and that's what we're going to convince Croatian citizens of, because without them and only without them, this story doesn't make sense. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Thank you, Mr. President, thank you for your corrections, goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60623	I said you insulted the Prime Minister twice because you took away her or said she had no moral responsibility. You later explained that about the government, the failures of these and those. Secondly, I warned that you insulted HDZ when you compared it to an infectious pandemic, so general pandemic. And thirdly, you also insulted the government when you said it was embarrassing Croatia. I do not trouble the qualifications that are given in one acceptable political way, but with such words it is an insult and I interpret it so. And once again, I ask all MPs and MPs to refrain from these extreme qualifications. If you remember several times I could tell someone he was lying, so I abstained, so I sought some milder euphemism to say the same thing, and to be a little more polite to hear. So you can say don't tell the truth. So I advocate a more decent vocabulary in the Croatian Parliament than any individual, representative, minister, government, Prime Minister and anyone. I ask you to make it easier for me to conduct this session in that you will refrain from such qualifications as inappropriate and offensive qualifications. That's why there are now 28 corrections of incorrect allegations. 28 so by word and count. I ask you both in the answers and corrections of an incorrect quote to stick to what I've been saying and what it's worth to everyone. So here we go to corrections. Ms. Representative Marija Buric-Pejcinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60624	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There are a number of incorrect allegations, especially those related to Croatia's accession to the European Union. I'll fix two. One is that the Prime Minister's invitation to tomorrow's meeting is a marketing procedure and the other is about the EU's abstention over the rapid entry into the Republic of Croatia. Yesterday there was a meeting in Brussels of the Cozak Committee on European Integration, which discussed both the EU Presidency and Mr Leterme and Mr Barroso and Mr Van Rompuyem. The main topic in terms of enlargement was Croatia and Mr Leterme, who spoke about this, left absolutely no doubt about it and the issues came not only from Croatia but also from the other side about Croatia's very fast entry into the EU. The meeting included two representatives of the SDP. As for the fact that it's a marketing procedure for tomorrow's meeting, it's also said that part of the job around that quick entry depends on the Republic of Croatia. If we have a consensus on Croatia's entry into... it is a big job that we cannot finish this job ourselves or you alone, then such meetings must be held very quickly in order to maintain this quick entry of Croatia into the EU, which was spoken of by the leaders of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60625	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60626	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Article 113 has been injured, which defines specifically when voting on trust to the Government who can answer, who can correct the allegations. And for that reason, I would ask you to apply article 113. Apparently, they're trying to stop the incursions all the time. It's exactly what's written who can answer. There's a vote here on the government's trust, so be sure to answer those whose trust is spoken of.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60627	Thank you. In any case, when someone argues, an incorrect quote can be corrected, but it cannot be replicated. So let's move on. Mrs. Sumrak will make it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60628	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Thank you for giving me a chance, and I hope I don't want to take instructions. I will correct the incorrect allegations of a representative of Milanovic who has been banging. In fact, he himself said that we could call it a "slap" when he said that Croatia was deformed, that the Croatian government was digging through drawers. Namely, they are bothered by the fact that in this Croatian government headed by Mrs. Jadranka Kosor crime and corruption has no name or name, no party, so you are afraid. And keep talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60629	Please, every MP has the right to qualify for the way he exhibits himself and use this word or that word but not the rest of us. Therefore, let us refrain from repeating it and qualify it as it applies to MP Milanovic as well as to each other. Mr. Frano Matušić is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60630	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's an incorrect quote when counterpart Milanovic listed it as not SDP, so he said SDP is not a party to corruption. That's an incorrect quote. Why is it an incorrect quote? Because at the time of SDP's power it was possible to do crime in Viktor Lenc, as it was possible to bribe SDP officials in order to make a deal with Daimler, which Daimler admitted in front of the US court, it was possible to sell hotels to friends, it was possible for the minister to make deals with his companies worth 500, 600 million kuna, without being punished for it. Therefore, it is not possible that it was not a party to corruption. This is evidence, and it will certainly be proven before the court that it is corrupt works and about the Rijeka Markets. And about who he was talking about and who he was talking about and how he was talking about, so we too could remind you of what you were saying to the Croatian public especially to the Zagreb public about Milan Bandic. That was a year ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60631	Thank you. The second part does not belong, the first part falls under the correction. Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica will correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60632	Mr. President, Madam President. I'm correcting three incorrect allegations. One was when Mr Milanovic said the foundations for NATO and the EU were set for 2000. The foundations were laid in 1990 by the Christmas Constitution and on June 25, 1991, when you of the SDP left this assembly. As for the second allegation, you were saying that the proposal on non-depreciation of crime was initiated by you. You could have initiated it in 2000 to 2003 and you didn't do it. And third, that yesterday's departure of Mrs. Kosor to Brussels is a marketing move, and where greater marketing than today's session and your demand for trust is when you know you don't have a majority in advance. So the whole marketing is yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60633	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60634	Thank you very much. Well, it is an incorrect claim by MP Milanovic that the government has lost credibility. That's just his opinion. I'll remind him that no one asked for a shift from this government except for the SDP. And I'll remind him that in 2002, the unions, the workers, were looking for the replacement of the SDP government's ministers. And unions and labour representatives have never asked for this government's replacement. That's why I think we should leave the political hens and seduce the public with the catastrophic forecasts and the Nostradamus statements here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60635	Let's hold off on the hens. (Laughter) Please have Mr. Ante Kulusic's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60636	Mr. President. Listen, it's gonna take more than what's said, but I'm only gonna have one, so I'm gonna add one more thing. He says Croatia is a hostage of internal conflicts in HDZ. It is simply not true, but Mr Milanovic has said a hundred times that he will only tell the truth and only the truth. The truth is that this government has set out to fight corruption, but the problem is that Mr. Milanovic served that the problem in the drawers is because someone needs to take out what happened in the drawers nine, 10, eight years ago. However, the tragedy is that this was exactly one hate speech partly wrapped in cellophane and I think that the Croatian Democratic Community is happy to have such opposition and it is very difficult to lose the elections of this kind of SDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60637	Thank you. Correction, Mrs Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60638	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Milanovic said, I quote, "Croatia has become a hostage to the HDZ conflict." Falsely, Mr Milanovic, there is no conflict in HDZ. And if it's a conflict, turn to your party, there's too many. The HDZ won't reach them that easily. Turn around, no hostages. You have two colleagues behind you as fugitives you mention, and there is a great fugitive sitting in the City of Zagreb who has caused you some kind of unrest, which you are now giving up. Start working on yourself, because you won't be able to justify to the citizens this speech you've spoken here as an exclusive hate speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60639	Thank you. Mr. Niko Rebic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60640	Well, my colleague Milanovic said on behalf of the SDP club that there is no hatred in the SDP, there is no intolerance, so I invite him before the Croatian public to say whether it is tolerance and whether it is normal in a legally regulated state that the largest opposition party is obstructing the Constitutional Court decisions, and we know that there is no more instance behind the Constitutional Court, so further than that, the rule of law no longer works. What's that, is that an invitation to demonstration, to a barricade, on the street, so is that tolerance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60641	Mr. Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60642	Thank you, Mr. President. I will correct the incorrect allegations of counterpart Milanovic, who said the Croatian government has violated the international reputation of the Republic of Croatia and that the results of the last visit by the Prime Minister to the European Union are a warm hug. It's not true, it's not true. On the contrary, just over the past year, the Croatian government has achieved the best results in negotiations with the European Union, all negotiating chapters have been unblocked, negotiations are nearing the end, and these are facts. It is clear from your presentation to counterpart Milanovic and the attacks in the media that the SDP is in panic precisely because of these results of the government that are achieving negotiations with the European Union and positive shifts in the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme. You are attacking the Croatian Democratic Community and coalition partners, of course without arguments, calling for early elections, and you are asking God not to, and by the way, you are spreading discouragement and fear among Croatian citizens. The citizens see it, they read you as an open book, and thank God they're falling short on your empty appearances. You have a little disappointed me with my colleague Milanovic because I expected you to be better prepared for this last and desperate opportunity of the SDP...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60643	Thank you! ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60644	But as they say, our... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60645	Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60646	Your Honor, Mr. President. History is false, historical is false, not just the incorrect allegations by Mr Milanovic, who claimed the SDP had founded Croatia's path to NATO. It is an irresponsible, unfounded, incorrect and inconclusive statement to Mr Milanovic in the Croatian Parliament. HDZ has established Croatia's path to NATO by creating a Croatian state, the defence of the Croatian state since '91. '95. when you were sitting in Brussels. Secondly, HDZ formally secured Croatia's path to NATO through five cycles of maps from 2004 to 2009, at the time when you called and called for a referendum that could formally prevent full Croatian membership in NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60647	Correction, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60648	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In his marketing speech, not his political speech, he said a number of incorrect allegations, so I'll make it right as far as I can. First, he said that the public who listens to him must say that he is manipulating the order of speakers. That's incorrect. I checked, I got the information, we submitted 8 applications the second the agenda was adopted. It was therefore not possible to teach on the basis of the Rules of Procedure before that. ... That's what I'm saying for the public, not him because he knows what this is about. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Another incorrect allegation is that HDZ officials are being investigated. Investigations are carried out against the same number of SDP officials and these investigations will soon produce results on the 2003 MUP, which gave large money to a marketing organisation that is both marketing rules for SDP and Daimler-benz and for Rijeka markets and for HEP apartments, etc. Therefore, it is incorrect to say that processes are being conducted against HDZ officials. They're also being conducted against the SDPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60649	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60650	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm not normally a person who likes to correct or replicate, but this time I really had to correct Mr. Milanovic's incorrect quote when he said in his first part of the presentation on several occasions that the Croatian hostage of the HDZ conflict was. In fact, we in HDZ started a mandate with 66 parliamentary deputies, today we have 65, while on the other side of the SDP they started with 66, and today they have less than two, or they have failed to raise 60 council members even though they have six political parties. So there's more conflict in the opposition than in the ruling coalition. Thank you. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60651	Mr. Representative Ivan Škaričić. Here you go, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60652	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam President. It is incorrect that Mr Milanovic was quoted as saying that the Croatian government had lost its political and moral credibility. Is it possible that she lost because of Mr Milanovic's efforts to make sure that the government's trinity in Croatia is indeed a trio of power, unlike the SDP that disabling the court's decisions, which disabling the Constitutional Court's decisions? And when you said that shame in Croatia that happens in my opinion is exactly the biggest shame that has happened in Croatia in the last 15, 20 days because that way you undermine the very foundations of Croatia as a state.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60653	Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60654	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of Mr Milanovic who said we have plotted the way to join NATO. I'm sure you didn't do it to Mr. Milanovic. Our citizens know who made it possible and done it, and you, as I recall, sought a referendum and challenged it, made it difficult for me to enter. You also stressed that you are three years ahead of the party, and I still think you have a problem with authority, because Mr. Milanovic is the authority of a reputation that is gaining, not building such a speech, force, insult, or pride by quoting himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60655	Ms. zastica Bozica Šolić, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60656	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I will quote representative Milanovic, he said, "SDP policy has laid the foundations of Croatia's path" and then you said "entry into the European Union and NATO." Agent, that's a big lie. I'll remind you exactly what it is. That you were already in '91. years, i.e. The SDP policy orders that SDPs come out, that there was a vote on the independence of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. from the separation from the Yugoslav republics. Second. You requested a referendum to join NATO. My predecessors have said what it means, I won't repeat it. And a third. You would like to take over the power and helm in Croatia. Well, Mr. Milanovic, you're the president of the biggest opposition party, so look at what you've done 11 years of running power in the city of Zagreb. You have destroyed practically financial and economical, the largest entity in the Republic of Croatia, not only in Croatia but throughout this region. This is an example for you and your party to lead Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60657	Thank you. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60658	Thank you very much. In a number of incorrect allegations from counterpart Milanovic, I will correct two. I quote: "I will not compare Croatia with Kyrgyzstan, let's not refer to polls." This is not true for your signature on how many opportunities I have to see the proposal to launch a trust issue for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, so I don't know if you wrote this material or these 58 MPs in the Croatian Parliament because it is as clear as your speech. And the other thing, you said that this government is in violation of international reputation, so I'm asking the leader of the opposition if it's true, are the inscriptions in one week that the SDP president sharply criticises foreign diplomats in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60659	Thank you. Correction Mr. Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60660	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I would like to correct two incorrect allegations by Mr. Milanovic. The first is that our president is irresponsibly leading politics, and the second is that our president shames the Republic of Croatia. I think the president is a disgrace to this all she heard today. First of all, Mrs Kosor pulled Croatia out of bankruptcy, saved the country from financial breakdown, ending negotiations with the European Union, the most difficult chapters. I think they're gonna close all the drawers that someone in this country should have closed long ago. And the rest of this is funny to me, and I'd say something I learned in kindergarten: "An environment of a box and make some chicken." That's what I heard and what's funny and what little kids should laugh at this for the shame we heard today from Mr. Milanovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60661	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60662	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I have noticed these incorrect allegations that previous colleagues have corrected, but it certainly bothered me that the invitation to the President's interview tomorrow is not state and visit Brussels as well as marketing. So is there anything more important for the country than the negotiations to end negotiations to join the European Union? Your coalition partner is in agreement with that, and you say you're talking about responsibility and work. The responsibility is also to pay off pensions on time, ensure a quality and accessible health system, etc. But all in all, in the course of your debate, I realized that you're kind of sorry that you raised this question of trust and that you're kind of reading yourself. We accept every argument, but of course on the basis of arguments. Politics isn't gonna happen. I know that you may answer in one way with a Latin saying, and I have a home saying in our village, "Or a plow or a plow." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60663	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60664	And I'll end up with one proverb, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of counterpart Milanovic, in fact almost all are corrected, but I would also join the corrections relating to the party conflict in HDZ. Soon we will see if we have a conflict, soon we will vote, and that will be the best evidence actually. On the other hand, I would dare say that you really disappointed me, Mr. Milanovic, because you didn't even read the document you submitted here. Because if you did, you'd know that on page 6 you're talking about Kyrgyzstan. Don't tell me, Professor. Puss that you read this document. I haven't seen a more illiterate document since I've been in this assembly and ignorant and he could really serve, he could serve in classes in high school, in higher schools as he shouldn't work. This is a really sad one document that has no head or tail, which has no arguments and has nothing. I'd say another proverb. It's really not pretty and it's not hot when a cat's got a calf's head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60665	Mr. Representative Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60666	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Milanovic said SDP is not a hate party. I'll list two facts that deny what he said. The first fact that today's speech, as you warned him of, was driven by hatred towards the Prime Minister, the party's presidents, according to HDZ members and foreigners in general. And the second fact is that a party branch of the SDP every Monday, or every Tuesday from Rijeka, speaks with an unprecedented hate speech that has not been recorded in these areas. If the SDP president does not deny it then or does not distinguish hate speech from reasoned debate, or disagree. If he agrees, then he accepts the political work of the SDP, which is work, the political work of hate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60667	Madam representative of the Sun's Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60668	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll correct two incorrect allegations. The first incorrect allegation is that Croatia suffers and is being violated by international reputation, namely the head of the government and president of the Croatian Democratic Community. So if suffering is what the President of the European Commission said the other day, Mr Barroso, I will quote: "The Croatian government has set out on the path of important reforms, and I would like to welcome the prime minister's determination on the plan."then that suffering doesn't hurt us if it hurts SDP. And another false allegation, our country enters the European Union to get rid of the complex. My colleague Milanovic is gone, I guess there is more important work to do, but I will say our country will enter the European Union because it has always belonged to the European Civilian Circle and therefore let the SDP, or their president, not transfer its complexes to Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60669	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60670	Mr. President, by the way the SDP behaves, it is incorrect that they were in power for only 4 years but 59 years, 55 years before the war, and 4 of that and 1990, and fortunately only 4 years later, because they returned to the early 40s when the same characters were accused, they ruled democratically all in the name of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60671	Madam Representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60672	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to correct one quote immediately in a series of incorrect allegations. One of them is that Mr Milanovic said he would sit here and argue all day. The way I see it, he's already gone, and otherwise he's not in this assembly, as you know, I've told him that sitting around hurts him, and I think if he was in the government he really wants to be in, he'd have a headache too. It is incorrect that this government has retarded, incorrectly shamed Croatia, that the prime minister was marketing in Europe, because Prime Minister Barroso himself, the President of the European Commission, welcomed Monday the progress made by the Republic of Croatia on its way to the European Union, and said that accession negotiations are progressing at a constant pace. He spoke about the date, and said the date would not be, not because Mr Milanovic said so, but because the member states decided not to set it before the negotiations were concluded. Sam says he has nothing to do with Croatia's progress. And I repeat things are going well. That's what Mr. Barroso says.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60673	Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60674	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to correct Mr Milanovic's incorrect quote, which said the government systematically rejects proposals, so all quality proposals related to economic reforms. It is not true, and it is Mr Milanovic himself who denied it, when he transferred the portal Business.hr on 24 April of this year, as a result of the programme of economic recovery, he tells me as Croatian patriots and citizens, we cannot do anything but support the programme. Secondly, he reiterated that the SDP has been proposing for a year and a half a number of concrete macroeconomic tax and economic measures, which are now largely accepted in this economic recovery programme. Therefore, Mr Milanovic, a programme of economic recovery cannot be supported one day, and the other day it cannot be supported exclusively for daily political needs and purposes. And secondly, regarding NATO and the European Union, I remind Mr Milanovic to read the document, namely the '89 Croatian Democratic Community programme. the year in which the national policy of entry into Euro-Atlantic integration was drawn and subsequently implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60675	Thank you very much. Let's move on, Mrs. Agent Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60676	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting Mr Milanovic's incorrect allegations that the government is now announcing a criminalisation of salary default, as accepting SDP's proposal. Mr. Milanovic, along with members of his club, cheats on the public and likes to buy cheap political points at the expense of workers' troubles. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The penal code was also incriminated, and I recall that it was the government of the HDZ and the majority of the HDZ in 2006 that raised the biggest impediment from one year to three years in prison, and what Mr Milanovic may have heard from the Ministry of Justice that as part of the amendments of the KZ, this incrimination will now be more clearly disciplined because the government of the Croatian Democratic Community decided on by the parliamentary majority, and not because it proposed by the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60677	Thank you. Correction, Ms. Representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60678	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In a number of incorrect allegations, counterpart Milanovic said Croatia had gone backwards. I simply cannot believe that you can say such a thing, as you know it is incorrect, not only is it incorrect, but I would say that it is also incorrect, since Croatia is at the end of the negotiations to join the European Union, and thanks to the Prime Minister, and to all of us, as well as to your colleague Milanovic, a clear message was sent from Brussels two days ago, when said Croatia is happy to have such a Prime Minister, a brave woman for bold moves. Keep that in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60679	Thank you. Mr. Representative and Vice President Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60680	Dear President, it says for the purchase of fire trucks the highest according to world standards has been obtained. I must remind myself that there was an invitation to tender when it appeared that it was not the most favourable one to whom the job was intended, then the competition was annulled and a decision was made directly at the closed session on who would be the supplier. And secondly, he said, a respected representative that in 2000 they had to return to Croatia on the right track. Croatia's right path was debated and voted on June 25th, 1991. The year you voted against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60681	Mr. Representative and Vice President Vladimir Shakespeare, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60682	The incorrect claim by MP Zoran Milanovic that the insurmountable conflicts within the HDZ have blocked the normal work of the government. First, there are no internal conflicts in HDZ. Secondly, the government's work is not blocked, the government functions as well as the Croatian Parliament as well as all the institutions of the system. Therefore, the construction that Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor should step down and because of the insurmountable conflict within HDZ is one fiction, one tower of sand, one tower that will collapse on its own and which has already been torn down by the power of the arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60683	Thank you. Now he has the word of Madam Prime Minister... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60684	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60685	If I skipped, it wasn't on purpose. Here you go, Mr. Djakic. Please, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60686	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I will correct the incorrect allegations by my counterpart Milanovic where he claimed that they are working as an opposition in the interest and on the well-being of the Republic of Croatia, to advocate a genuine fight against corruption and to support the European path. From what is stated, it can be argued that it is absolutely incorrect because it is evident that they are absolutely opposed to the fight against corruption in each segment, especially when it comes to their members. And when any doubt is directed at them, they are absolutely opposed to being investigated and all the reconnaissances needed to bring about true truth. The final economic recovery is also a brake and you are the same brakers in each segment and in every legislative proposal you voted against. It is absolutely evident that you do not want this Croatia well, and today when we see how you react to a meeting on the European road it is clear that Europe is also your side and that you do not want it in this form as led by President Jadranka Kosor. When you talk about having to discuss this whole day in this House, I see you're back now, but probably because it's gone to your groin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60687	Thank you. I think we've had 29 corrections. We had a 29 correction, so now we're finally moving on. So now he has the word of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60688	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I warmly welcome you on behalf of all members and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the beginning, still at the beginning of this debate. Let me say that we'd like to remove maybe just some little business misunderstandings. Since Mr Milanovic, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, made it clear, that is, on behalf of all those who signed and requested this request, therefore speaking of the reply of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that we sent yesterday to the Croatian Parliament, a response which in a very reasoned way absolutely refused all of what we might actually call an indictment which was filed against the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of those who signed the request. So I want to make it very clear that there is nothing in the government's response that could be called defence. Since Mr Milanovic called that answer a defense. It's not the government's defense because this isn't a court. This is the Croatian Parliament, this is a assembly in which Croatian MPs elected in parliamentary elections speak one another. One in favour, one for, one against, but certainly the Government did not send its defense in its answer, but an argument, and one of the arguments is this review, that is, the report on the implementation of our economic recovery plan. I ask you all to take a good look at this review of what we have done so far in the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme, study and it will probably be easier for many to vote at the end. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament when I stood before this pay phone in July 2009 and came with the signatures of representatives of the ruling coalition who decided to support me and my government then I certainly came with the mandate of the President of the Republic of Croatia, then Mr. Mesic, so absolutely in one legal procedure. No one put me in this place, no one left me but I, here in the Croatian Parliament, received the support of most MPs and MPs as Prime Minister. Since then, since the moment I presented my Government programme to you, and in program 3 of the main pillars: the fight for exit from the crisis, the fight for economic recovery, the fight for the end of the negotiations in order to become a 28th-member, a proud member, the EU as we are a NATO member and certainly one of the important pillars of the government that I have presented and which most in this House are fighting corruption and crime. At that moment, the country was indeed in a particularly difficult situation. In fact, a major global economic crisis has led to our door. The situation was really very serious, and we already agreed recovery measures with our social partners and started working in July, as you know. At that moment when I stood at the head of the government and when all these people around me, so the ministers and ministers began a difficult and painful job that we showed that we had both strength and will and that we showed that we had knowledge. EU entry negotiations have been blocked. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you of the situation when it was completely uncertain when we were going to launch this process. When I tried and, as you can see, I succeeded with the support of, above all, the coalition partners and this majority in the Croatian Parliament, an agreement with Slovenian Prime Minister Mr. Pahor with the Slovenian Government on the arbitration agreement. And then there was a lot of people here and there were those here, and they're the ones who are asking me to leave today, and then, of course, the whole government, who have been restrained actively, passively, abstentioned and then after that for. But it doesn't matter now. It is important that from that moment on, we have separated negotiations for the conclusion of the negotiations, that we have started negotiations, that at this point we have all chapters open, that we will certainly close the new three chapters in November, that in December we will close the next four chapters and that I am, during my stay in Brussels, who I am really proud of, because it was really great, it was really constructive, I really got full and true support, we also talked about the rest of the way about the most difficult chapters related to shipbuilding and related to Chapter 23. Justice and human rights. We've done a lot of things in this business, as you know, and I admit it may have been done long ago and years ago. I remind you of all those obligations we have from the SAA, etc. related to our European path, but these jobs aren't done, and here we are now doing them. And about the shipbuilding, we've sent restructuring plans and I'm sure this job will end well. So we separated the negotiations from resolving the border issue. That's what this majority, this coalition, this government headed with me. We'll end the negotiations next year. And I think it is unworthy for anyone on the Croatian political scene to assess my talks with the President of the European Commission in such a way as to speak about the icy or cold face of Mr Barroso of the President of the European Commission, because this is not how politicians who want to conclude the negotiations speak. Mr Barroso is a serious person who stands at the head of the European Commission and is therefore elected there. And of course we talked about the difficult problems, and of course I received support in that, and of course it was supported by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I believe, of course, that many of you have heard this in a conversation with the Vice-President of the European Commission and the Commissioner for Justice, Mrs Reding, who I am really saying is proud of me personally as Prime Ministers. So much for those findings, ladies and gentlemen, that this government is embarrassing Croatia. I really think it is also such a qualification as an unworthy Croatian political scene, because so, ladies and gentlemen, whatever anyone thinks about it, it is certainly not President Obama when he invited me to the meeting and dinner where we talked about Bosnia and Herzegovina, about the road to Bosnia and Herzegovina, that Mr. MPs, when I talked about the NATO action plan for Bosnia and Herzegovina, when we talked about when Croatia will end the negotiations. So certainly not even the vice president of the United States, Mr Biden, when he invited me to visit and when we talked about the Croatian road to the EU and when we talked about the Euro-Atlantic route to Southeast Europe. So certainly not the other prime ministers and statesmen think, here I am going to say from President Obama to Prime Minister Putin, with whom I have discussed certainly far more important economic issues. Ladies and gentlemen, our goal is to complete the negotiations and become a proud member of the European Union and we will do so, we will do so. We've got as you see for Chapter 34. – The institutions we will close in early November, we have received a plan of 12 Croatian MPs in the European Parliament. Commissioner in the European Commission, Judge in the European Court, Judge in the Court of Justice and one Judge in the Court of Justice. Of course, the budget for the first two years is 3.5 billion euros, 9 members in the European Economic and Social Committee, 9 members in the Committee of the Regions, and a lot more that I will not list, but it is particularly important. So it'll be confirmed. Once again, the Croatian language will become the official language of the European Union. And I believe that all relevant political forces will support our path and will support the conclusion of the negotiations and will contribute to this path. That's why I, ladies and gentlemen from Brussels, have invited the leaders of parliamentary parties, all the leaders of the parliamentary parties, to meet tomorrow. Tomorrow's Thursday, Thursday usually comes after Wednesday. Wednesday is a debate in Parliament on my trust, and Thursday is after when there will be a meeting of the government and when I called for a trail of talks with President Barroso and Vice-President Reding in order to agree on further steps by all parliamentary parties, namely all those who want the European path of Croatia who want Croatia back home, where it belongs, at the table of European states and peoples, to sit down and agree on who else can do, do, help and in the communication strategy towards Croatian citizens, but also in the EU countries to get our job done as soon as possible. Because the truth is, President Barroso said now everything depends on you and on how fast you're going to work. And at what rate we'll work if one of them wants to finish the negotiations, and the other one's doing everything possible to stop it. And it's absolutely certain that this debate is actually going that way today. It won't happen ladies and gentlemen, we'll continue our work. I stand before you with a truly pure heart and pure cheek. We will certainly continue our business of economic recovery. Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia today are interested in how they will live tomorrow, how will they educate their children, how will they get a job? What's actually going to happen tomorrow? Will they be able to pay their bills, and they are not interested in a free debate about what anyone thought about this government, for sure, and that every citizen and citizen of the Republic of Croatia knows no shame on Croatia. So I invited you to that meeting, and I think it's something that's common. I didn't send that invitation to the ladies and gentlemen of the press, speaking of the marketing trick. I didn't send it to the press, I sent it to the presidents of the parties in the Croatian Parliament. Who will be at this meeting is troubled by Mr Milanovic because it depends whether he comes or not. I come to meetings that talk about Croatia's European future no matter who sits at these meetings and always come, I will always come, I will call everyone, I will gather all the forces I can right now. I call on both the SDP and the opposition parties to join us on that path. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking of the work we're doing, a lot of hard work has been done by this government, but I have nothing to say about it here from those painful and difficult cuts and decisions we didn't have the support of, above all, the SDP. Some other opposition parties are in some particularly sensitive SDP matters not. So I already mentioned the arbitration agreement, at the beginning the SDP was against it. The amendments to the Labour Act are absolutely against it. How can we, ladies and gentlemen, change anything, and we are constantly invited to do so if we cannot amend one law or two articles in this law? Peace insurance, the Pension Insurance Act, I don't hear we have support. Finally, we here in Parliament have proposed to spend the next year when we are making the budget frozen, so that they cannot be increased. We didn't get the SDP's support in that, we didn't, they voted against it. We have announced the Law on fiscal responsibility for everyone in this country, all the users of the state budget. We didn't get SDP support. With regard to savings, ladies and gentlemen, we have announced many reforms in this sense that ultimately have the result of savings and are reflected in the state budget. See what happened around the benign, absurdly benign things like connect. The administrations of the two ergels and thus save 30% of the budget money. Well, it's an unseen hack and an unprecedented noise we've been facing. About the benign things like joining the administration of two ergels, with no one moving an ergel or a horse. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has invested 20 million kunas in the ergel, in a riding room in the ergela in Đakova. And I could count a lot. I'll say we didn't get any support for the combined public procurement, not a single word that the government in reform programmes, in reforms, would support in difficult decisions. However, when we announced some cuts that are of course very sensitive and very painful, and I remind you that we have reduced the examples and pensions paid according to special regulations, etc., when talking about salaries and pensions, then the SDP has just come out of the SDP if we come to power we will return it all. I don't think it's behavior that would be acceptable in a crisis, but please, the opposition does what it thinks is best. Ladies and gentlemen, we've done a lot of things in the fight against corruption, we'll do more. We're absolutely uncompromising here. I will now speak of my party, the Croatian Democratic Community. Of course we have the support of our partners, but as far as the Croatian Democratic Community is concerned, I think I have the right to say and mention it today to my party, as in this particular watch that came to your tables mention the internal conflicts in HDZ, the largest Croatian party, the historic Croatian party. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made a clear decision, the fight against corruption is the Croatian Democratic Community programme. You should have both the courage and the strength and the knowledge to do order in your house. I'm calling on the SDP to do it in his house, too. As soon as the fight against corruption, as soon as any sign comes, touch the panel, not to say the door to the SDP is a big frustration, everyone gets up on their feet and everyone says they can't. Look at the example. Minister Karamarko, indeed an excellent minister and in my government was welcomed, indeed, by birthdays and banners and praises and tin music when he finally came because HDZ is one professional person, he will make the order. However, as time drifts away, he suddenly became both a spy and an unqualified person and a person who must be driven out of the government. Why, because Minister Karamarko works uncompromisingly in the fight against corruption. Yes, we're opening drawers both at the Ministry of the Interior and in other ministries. Yeah, we'll open the drawers, they won't get tired of opening drawers while we're gone. Why, because it is good for Croatia, because it is good for Croatian citizens and citizens, because they see both faith and hope for change, that something positive is happening and that we are determined to do so and that we are uncompromising. When we proposed Mr. Bajic's attorney-general, the SDP was against it. All of us to our question who can come, and Mr. Bajic is a professional, a person who has results, you said anyone, anyone but him. No one can be the attorney general. The attorney general can be a professional person, who does his job in quality and who is naturally uncompromising in this business. We have him, this ruling majority supported him, and this ruling majority thinks we should have full political space in every sense of that word to do its job to the end. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be no trial here for the government or the ruling coalition or ministers or me. In the elections when the time comes, and all the members and members of the government will welcome these elections truly proudly, raises their heads high because we will know that in these moments we have done all that was possible, in such difficult times as it was possible to do. It's not an easy way, it's really not an easy way. And personally and all of my colleagues in the meantime, doing this job, we've earned a lot of enemies. However, we will do this work to the full. I'll quote here and a great politician named Gold Meir. She said nicely once that we can't erase history just because it doesn't fit our present and that's why we have to carry out reforms, we have to do the job to the end. We have to listen, we have to hear, and I'm sure this government has proven it countless times. We are not going to be ladies and gentlemen either shaken or thrown, nor are we going to stop just because some want Croatia to be a hostage of impatient and immature desires to come to power that could stop everything that we have set in motion and all that we, ladies and gentlemen, will bring to an end. The institutions of the state must indeed function. We will not and must not allow it to be admitted absolutely nothing, nor the work of the Government, nor the Government, nor the Chamber, nor the Constitutional Court, nor the Supreme Court, at all, the courts, to attack the judges and to try to stop a process that has taken place and is unconstitutional. Stopping Croatia's independent entry into the European Union, too, ladies and gentlemen will not pass as well as stopping any anti-corruption process. Well, that's it. I am sure that both in the war against corruption and in the war, that is, the fight for economic recovery and in the great job of joining the European Union, we will indeed win. In the end, I would just like to say two more, three words about what is happening through this debate today and what is absolutely and totally unacceptable to me as here is the person who has been and twice a representative in the Croatian Parliament and several years of government, which is a blow to our coalition partners, a blow to people who are honest and consciously doing their job, a blow that tries to discourage them, demean them and who is trying to push them out of the ruling coalition so that we do our job to the end. I think it's one of the most unacceptable things that's happening today. But I also think that all those who put into it are actually underestimating their potential coalition partners. Radicalisation is aimed at taking over part of the electoral body of potential partners, but everyone has the right to decide which, with whom and on which foundations they will co-ordinate. I will not allow it, and I will never admit that we are driven by contempt, driven by hatred, driven by mutual disrespect and humiliation. That is why I call for this debate to indeed be at a decent and dignified debate. As far as members and members of the government are concerned, we will be the leaders here and let this be at the very end because I really think that each of us on the political scene must first of all prove with our own work and his own life the fundamental values for which it stands. With your own work and your own life every day. Let me say and say on behalf of all my colleagues and colleagues that we will live and work in this way, to finish this short presentation with "All for Croatia, Croatia for nothing!". [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60689	I thank the Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor. And now we have corrections to incorrect allegations. First Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60690	Thank you very much. I'm not happy, however, Sanader was clapping harder when he was finishing his speeches. And I'll correct a few allegations. One is the fact that this government is both in its work and in what is an embarrassment to Croatia. That's not what I'm saying to the world media. We have many articles where Croatia has become a synonym for corruption, where Croatia has become a synonym for incompetence because we are the only country that does not make any progress and no GDP growth this year. Unfortunately, these are all facts and these are the results of this government. You're saying you're getting out of a crisis. 80,000 people remain in your term of office, GDP drops 2% this year. These are the results of your government's work. And when you talk about courage and knowledge, tell Mrs. Kosor you were brave from 2004 to 2009 when you said "Where is Ivo and I" or it looks like the courage woke up only in 2009 when Ivo left.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60691	Mr. Representative, you said this government was embarrassing Croatia and you called on the world media. They also insult Croatia as you do. We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60692	Let's warn the world's media.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60693	We have this miracle. Yeah? Well, first of all, we've got one violation of the Rules of Procedure of Mrs. Gurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60694	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. MP has injured the Rules of Procedure in Article 214 of his presentation and saying that this government has offended Croatian citizens, offended the Croatian government, insulted us Croatian representatives who love this Croatia and live for this Croatia, and therefore I ask you to give him a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60695	The warnings will be shared... I'm still pleading, I'm still trying in some way to bring ourselves down into some frames of normal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if that's not possible then we're going to have to apply with great regret and these measures of ours disciplinaryly to say, right? But for now, I'm holding back. There's another violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zeljko Turk. Mr. Zeljko Turk, did you lift? You're not. Excuse me. Vice President Vladimir Shakespeare has also suffered a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60696	In 209nd, paragraph 2, MP Maras did not correct the incorrect allegations at all, but made a slanderous claim that Croatia is synonym for corruption. It is an insult to the Croatian state, it is one slanderous meal and claims and insults by both Croatian citizens and Croatian states.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60697	Thank you. All those who are likely to appear because of the incorrect application of this instrument inaccurately, 90% of the cases are correct. So I don't even think about trying to sort of channel it, because it's already tradition here that, when correcting the incorrect quotes, they say anything to anyone who thinks of it. That's why you vice presidents are right, but we're moving on. Mr. Maras, he has a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60698	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Seks broke the Rules of Procedure because I did not determine it, but I expressed regret that this government has brought us into this situation that in the world Croatia has become a synonym for corruption. So you're not... You have not properly applied the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I have expressed regret, and the fact that we have become a synonym for corruption has led to... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] The HDZ government. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60699	To talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure there precisely states that an article that has been injured should be listed. Everyone. Here's Vice President Shakespeare's article. So could you. So you're not. However, we are going further with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, with the great risk that it will be overruns of various kinds, etc., but here is Mr Davor Bernardić. Here you go. Correction of an incorrect quote, I'm sorry. Correction of an incorrect quote, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60700	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the prime minister presented several incorrect allegations. You said it was important to you what President Obama thought. What he thinks you can't know, you can only know what he said, but it's more important for all these citizens what Croatian citizens think at the moment. You said it mattered to the citizens how they're going to live tomorrow. Citizens also care about how they live today, it is also an incorrect quote. And you said you wouldn't give up on implementing economic recovery measures, but first you need to start implementing them, because the results don't go into service or the measures are in place, that's what 32 billion internal indifference, 80,000 people who lost their jobs, 15 billion kunas of the state... You didn't count the merger of the ergell. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60701	Thank you. Please, if we already have a wide range of opportunities to correct the incorrect allegations in the House, it would be good to drop Obama's correction and other presidents, so let's bring ourselves down to our Parliament. Mr. Gordan Flego, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60702	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, in her presentation, she pointed out that we are doing everything in our power to conclude negotiations with the European Union as soon as possible. I don't think that's right, unfortunately. And as she mentioned unworthy on several occasions, I would say it is unworthy that MPs and the Croatian public are not told that within the same government there are tendencies of stopping or renewing closed negotiations. We have concluded chapters 25 and 26 temporarily. What the Ministry of Science recently put into public debate as a proposal, which was the laws that were born for two and a half years. The government's proposed interventions in the system of higher education, and in the system of science, not only introduce a whole series of unconstitutionalities and against constitutionality, but in fact so much restructuring of the system of science and higher education, that we should change the negotiating position and thus reopen it. I am therefore afraid that this thesis is not true that we are doing everything we can to complete the negotiations as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60703	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Vice President Vladimir Shakespeare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60704	I refer to Article 209(2) as my colleague, Flego, did not correct the incorrect allegations, but semi-emised what he himself said with the government's thesis on the law. The controversy with thesis is not correcting an incorrect assumption, because correcting an incorrect quote means correcting a factual claim, not a semimic with a thesis.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60705	That's true, but here's in line with our current tolerance to be able to say anything that I don't know what to say. This is true. We have a correction to the incorrect quote, Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60706	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting the following inaccuracies of Madam Prime Minister: "When I was headed by the Government, the ministers began their work." So this claim is completely incorrect and incredible... The 12 ministers of the government were ministers of the government of Ivo Sanader, the three ministers of the government were state secretaries in the government of Ivo Sanader, and only two ministers were not in the government of Ivo Sanader. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] They began their work long ago, 88% of the members of this government were in the government of the one you walked on the assembly Friday, and 88% of the members of this government acted as though they were going to give him 88 roses while he was Prime Minister. And Mr. President, let Vice President Shakespeare preside when he keeps reporting for injuries to the Rules of Procedure out of the ordinary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60707	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have nothing else to say, my only foothold is the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60708	Correcting the inaccuracies of the Prime Minister by the great foreign policy successes, on the accession of the European Union, I call for a witness to Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, and quote her sentence spoken in this House in 2008, and as regards the good path on which the government and in fact Croatia is in general, the President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso, who spoke, as you know, about the calendar for the conclusion of the negotiations next year. It was said in this House in 2008. Next year was 2009. Today we are the end of 2010, and Commissioner Barroso is no longer talking about dates at the end of 2010. It's a testimony to foreign-political success.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60709	The violation of Mrs. Durjica Sumrak's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60710	Thank you, Mr. President. Injury of the Rules of Procedure... Because they're shutting me down. [[Speakers off the mic, you don't understand.]] He's not talking about this government, he's not talking about this subject, he's sticking to some other topic and he's talking about another government. Now you can, let me turn it off now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60711	The truth is, there was a quote from 2008. Thank you very much, let's move on. Correction, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60712	It is incorrect that Mrs. President chose to make a statement. We are doing everything to bring Croatia into the EU while others are doing everything possible to stop this road in the EU. It's simply incorrect! Because not exactly conducting the reform procedures as a wedge has got into a car that should be taken to the EU by Croatia. Will we be introduced into the EU by a party whose policy is to ignore the law and which rules as Mrs. Lovrin said last time, "I have a guideline," on your note, "I have a guideline from the HDZ Club." Is it the party that destroyed the economy, whose ticket employment is just a ticket to the HDZ membership card, that those who allow the employers... Pay? [[Speakers off the mic, you don't understand.]] A political rating party, which threatens to pull out of drawers in 2004 only then... So, if we think in the EU, if we think well of Croatian citizens... [[Speakers off the mic, you don't understand.]] [[Speakers off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60713	I haven't noticed, I haven't heard that Madam Prime Minister told anyone specifically that she's doing everything to slow down or disable it. She said that others do, that others should recognize themselves if they wanted to. Mr. Vice President Shakespeare has a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60714	Article 2, Article 209, is not about correcting an incorrect quote but about an uncontrollable outcry of the hatred of MP Antičević, of an uncontrollable outflow of hatred and of an online... That's what Agent Anticevic is about. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] They defamation of one defamation with defamation and hatred. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60715	I will be persistent, persistent in trying not to use the most difficult word qualifications. I beg you, because every action causes a reaction and then there's no end to it. Let's calm down and talk in harmony with good customs. Because here he says, and I'm going to quote, Article 214(6) says, "By his conduct he's deviating from the general rules of conduct in the Parliament." It's so wide, it's stretching, but sometimes it can be qualified like this. I ask you not to bring the chairman, not just me, of course, into the temptation that we must then qualify and begin to share warnings, etc. I'm asking you to avoid it. And I think when I ask you so many times, it does the courtesy of my age that you should listen to me. If nothing else. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic, also a correction to the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60716	Thank you. Here's what I'm going to say very, very controlledly that fellow Shakespeare wouldn't have to intervene. Madam Prime Minister, it is not your claim that the citizens of Croatia are not interested in this debate and that you have stated and supported that you will not stop with the measures of economic recovery even though this morning at 7.30 this morning at the first HRT programme I quote: "The situation is more than good, however excellent." You really don't seem to be the head of a government, but some cult that believes in something that no one believes in or sees. And as for corruption, I'd like to ask you to examine the role of police in the cover-up of the Brodosplit affair. Then I'll believe you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60717	Please don't, we see that the system works both with the police and the State's Attorney's office and the court, let's not get into it. We gave them the instruments of the law, and no one should be asked to apply the law because as soon as the law was published in the People's Newspaper, it became an obligation for everyone. Therefore, we should now make additional requests and requests for laws to apply. The law is there and let them work, and we know who's supposed to do it. Mr. Vice President Shakespeare has a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60718	Again, in clear Article 209(2), if you had listened a little more carefully, then you would have noticed that the Prime Minister did not say that she was not interested in the debate in the Assembly but was talking about something else. She spoke of the untrue thesis and claims that stand out, which you point out is that there is dissension at the top of the HDZ, that there is disagreement. You should have seen that. But if you'd listened carefully then you'd have heard it, and like this you were completely obsessed with that as soon as possible... One bad habit you need to let go of once. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] Listen, listen carefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60719	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60720	Article 214 has been injured, and that is because fellow Shex is disturbing the session by sharing lessons with other MPs as they have to speak. What is most important is that the Rules of Procedure are prescribed for which one can receive a warning. The moment you deny MPs the right to speak on all subjects, then you brought down this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60721	Please mention the article. And secondly, to create a mess or some atmosphere seems to be a united synergy force, so we have an all the time such an impression here. We now have a breach of the Rules of Procedure Mr Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60722	Mr. President. I'd like to join your model, which is that it often hurts Article 214 here. The Rules of Procedure and that from Mr. Shakespeare, who really falls back from the usual conduct in the Parliament, because he keeps showing up, and as a measure, I think whether the Businessman is hurt or not. So I'd like to ask for the relief of this session to move on and to end this kind of competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60723	Thank you very much for the alliance in these efforts. But since Mr. Shakespeare has been declared the best known procedure long ago, and all I've ever seen is him as a man who also wants to be within the Rules of Procedure. And now we may see beyond that need but certainly thank you for your intervention. We have Mr Ivo Jelusic to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60724	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'm correcting her several times mentioning her recovery term. Economic recovery and the state of the economy in one country... are through several parameters primarily through two. Growth and unemployment rates. Unfortunately, it is incorrect that Croatia is in economic recovery, because compared to 15 of us nearby Eastern and Central Europe, Croatia has the worst growth rate, we are fighting Romania for the beginning, and if the growth rate is 2% unfortunately we will be the last. The second argument or second parameter that we don't have a recovery is the number of unemployed. In September last year, we had 30,000 employees less than today. Unfortunately, it was a trend and last month we had 2% less than we had in August than we had in September. So, unfortunately, we don't have economic recovery, it's just not true. It would be good if it were different.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60725	Ladies and gentlemen, please one more little one, I won't be long, intervention. At least let's keep the form so that I say correcting the incorrect quote, which is one of these magical ordinary forms, and then you can say what you say, but at least it looks like it's correcting an incorrect quote. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic will make it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60726	Not wanting to offend the Prime Minister or the Government, I'm correcting an incorrect allegation. Madam Prime Minister said she's doing everything in these difficult times to get out in these difficult times. However, to these difficult times, this entire government has brought it. The only thing missing is the captain with a little vitre. So, I think you should warn a bit of an agent who's yelling that I'm a commie. I am no commie nor was I in the party, the Alliance of Communists, unlike you at least 90%. On the other hand, we've lost almost two years since 2008 when this entire government was due to resign because if it's true what the captain says he didn't want to sell Croatia and territory, then this government hasn't been shown yet. I'd be so glad to have this middle here where your coalition partners are sitting, for example. that your shift would be a mob victory, as they defended it in 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60727	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60728	Wait for Madam Prime Minister... /The speaker is off./... In the end, I still wish that instead of the autograph that you got from Barack Obama that you got one... /The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60729	... Please, you'll get a gentleman. [[Speakers speak in the same voice, you don't understand.]] I'd just notice if "captain" what you say isn't going to be a good thing if you're quoting something and telling the captain not to degrade it. I heard he's a colonel. Mr. Boris Kunst, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60730	Mr. President, Article 209(2), this is not a correction to the incorrect assumption, this is pure nonsense that we've been listening to.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60731	You hear the qualification is something one way or another not regulated by the Businessman. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic will also correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60732	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. I am correcting Mrs. Prime Minister Kosor's incorrect statement that SDP's qualification that HDZ's government is embarrassing Croatia's unworthy parliament and offensive. This SDP finding that HDZ's government shames Croatia is clear and true, because HDZ has transformed Croatia into a homeland as a share society or better to say with complete irresponsibility and unlimited possibility of robbery. 40 million evidence to confirm this thesis is, for example, Kuna from the FIMI-MEDIA project has been sucked out so that the state budget, salaries of workers and pensions of Croatian citizens and thus the financing of the personal and party needs of HDZ officials has been ripped off. It is a shame for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60733	Mr. Representative, I give you a warning about the government's insult, repeated, intentional and systematic actions you do not do in this assembly many times, but it is here as well. And that's why, with great regret, I have to, because this is inadmissible. That's what the government is so offended about, that I give you a warning. And Vice President Jarnjak's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60734	Your Honor, Mr. President. Despite the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 209(2), despite the day-long appeal to try to be courteous in this Assembly, speak nicely and despite what Mrs Opačić said yesterday that there will be spit on the other side today, and on their side of the arguments, there are precisely insults from the MP Jovanovic in the worst way both in Croatia and in the government and on HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60735	I did what I could to tell us to say to point out that we really don't use these heavy qualifications or insults as you can see. That's really offensive. There's a correction to the inaccuracies of Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60736	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations, quoting the Prime Minister who said that for all painful and severe cuts of HDZ and this government did not have SDP support. This is simply not true for the simple reason that you gave up all these alleged painful and severe cuts, or you did not even go into these difficult and painful cuts. But what and for what never in this Assembly by SDP will get support is for what you've been doing for the last year, that the greatest burden coming out of the crisis and so on. You transfer your economic measures to the back of those who usually have the least. They're unemployed, the other day we discussed it, they're workers who work, and they don't receive wages, workers for which employers don't pay contributions, and this government hasn't been able to determine whether any of these employers have the right to help the state or not. And then, Madam Prime Minister, it is not also true that this debate today is simply because the SDP wants to come into power in an unhealthy way. No, Madam President. It is true that by your inaction and giving up all possible reforms, you are doing everything you can to remain in power unhealthyly.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60737	Thank you very much. You've extended a little bit, but... But we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60738	Thank you very much, Mr. Baby. You violated Article 214 by warning your colleague Jovanovic because none of these provisions in Article 214 have been violated, please read all of them. So Mr. Jovanovic held the topic under discussion in his speech, he spoke after he received a word from you. With his incursions or in other ways he did not interfere with other speakers, he did not report for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, he did not disrespect anyone and insulted the President and did not deviate from the usual conduct in the Croatian Assembly, and... Wait a minute, please, let me explain. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] And just because he said that the government shames Croatia does not mean that he insulted Croatian gentlemen, because the government and HDZ are not Croatia, what you think they are, but they are not Croatia. Croatia is not owned by HDZ but by all its citizens. And the other thing, unfortunately by the behaviour of Mr. Shakespeare and the Capricorn, is that Mr. Shakespeare would like the opposition.....the noise in the hall, the speakers speak in the same voice....
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60739	Come on, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60740	That opposition.../The speaker turned off./... and the Constitutional Court, but it did not but watch [[That's what you're looking at.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60741	I didn't understand the noise, but I have to tell you this. Please. I have warned Agent Jovanovic of insults and if it is only MPs then paragraph 5, and if it is about others, it is by its conduct that the general rules of conduct in the Assembly do not offend anyone, then that is paragraph 6. If you think or anyone that I have given that warning in some way that you think I had no right, there is also an opportunity to address the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to discuss it. Mr. Vice President Vladimir Shakespeare also has a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60742	Mr. President, the strict measures, among them the pronunciation of the notice, are executive and they are not under discussion. There's no room for debate. When the chairman gives a warning measure, this measure is immediately implemented and there is no place for any intervention by the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, and if they knew, if they followed little Rules of Procedure 213(2), they would see it. There is no debate on the strict measure of caution.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60743	That's right. We heard Mr. Maras' argument about me being wrong. We've got a few more. ... Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60744	Mr. President of the Parliament, sit in the chair seat, please stop this farce. Either you hold a session, or let Shex or Jarnjak or someone else run it. .../The noise in the hall, the speakers speak out loud./... So it's not possible, you solve your problems with each other and that's what I'm talking about. .../The noise in the hall, the speakers speak out loud./... It is not possible for the Vice-President of the Parliament to intervene ten times in the case of which the President of the Parliament is responsible. It's sabotage. Protect the dignity of this institution or let it sit in your seat. .../The noise in the hall, the speakers speak out loud./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60745	Every MP has the right to raise a plate here and answer the word. Whether I'm on this side or with someone I've challenged so far so that's ten times, I haven't. That's what it says in the Rules of Procedure. And when I'm going to preside, that's what I decide, none of you here as many of you as there are... But I can let one of the five vice presidents preside when I have that reason, when I get tired, etc. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I, in my opinion, am modest in these circumstances as we do today, correctly this House, and I have not questioned anyone's dignity or the right to any institute or correction of an incorrect assumption if it has the right to do so or to injure the Rules of Procedure that I do not give him my word. .../The Intruder doesn't understand. It's not my capacity, because if my integrity were questioned, I would know. I have a lot of experience in it, and I know when something like this is trendy or something. I didn't feel that he was teaching me, but that he was answering and arguing about what we have today in this political situation in the assembly. So, if I were to live with Vice President Shakespeare or any of me wanting to get laid here or correct me, then I would say that. However, I don't experience it that way and any help including yours when it's in any place whose I'll accept. I've just been raised like that since I was a kid. Thank you very much. Ms. Milanka Opačić, also has a correction to the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60746	I'm correcting the inaccuracies of the prime minister who said she didn't get SDP support for painful cuts. You didn't get it because the painful cuts weren't there first. Secondly, all that was in Parliament was pure cosmetics. When you shut down the agencies here we asked how much savings for the state budget we never got the answer because there is no savings. So, people are still working. You're just formally abolishing agencies which is pure cosmetics. Secondly, we are not and we will never give you support to lift tax benefits for the purchase of the first residential space because it is a blow to young families, while you have not caught that part of the non-taxable that leaks out of the state budget, which flows into private pockets and those who are already extremely rich in Croatia. When you make the order to strike among those who are rich, then you will be able to touch and get our support to touch this poor thing that barely knocked out the money for the first apartment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60747	Thank you. Vice-President Željka Antunovic has a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60748	Thank you very much. I am correcting Mrs. Kosor's incorrect quote when she claimed that the fight against corruption was a HDZ programme. Countless facts suggest that this claim is not justified and that it cannot therefore be accurate. First of all, all open affairs, all investigations leading up to the stage in which they are suggest that corruption and abuse of political power are closely linked to HDZ or HDZ financing. On the other hand, although it is the government in continuity your government has not taken any measure that could be called fighting corruption. All your measures can be politically referred to as "the shiver of thieves". An effective state and an efficient government are fighting corruption, and there are no shifts in this direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60749	Thank you very much. However, the correction of the incorrect assumption that we are not fighting corruption I think the public and we all know that these things are still happening. But that's your right to think. Ms. Marija Lugaric, correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60750	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting two allegations. Mrs Kosor, I first quote: "The Republic of Croatia is a hostage of impatient desire to come to power". This is an incorrect allegation that the Republic of Croatia is actually an incompetent policy which in a year resulted in the fact that 80 000 people are out of work, which means that daily because of the policy led by Mrs Jadranka Kosor and her government 200 people are out of work, that it is a policy that leaves 10 to 15 families without an apartment on a daily basis because they cannot pay for housing loans and that is a policy in which the standard of citizens fell, given that salaries are both nominally and realistically less than they were a year ago. Another quote, I quote, "No one has set me up in this place." Mrs. Kosor, you are the Prime Minister for the will, mercy and desire of the fugitive prime minister who said I quote 1.7 last year: "I will propose that Jadranka Kosor be Prime Minister." And then, by party joint discipline, it was done here in the Assembly as well as at an incredible democratic acclaim at the HDZ Assembly for the presidency of the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60751	Please cross the correcting frame of the incorrect quote, but you're not the only one in it. However, the term of the fugitive, the unfettered, and the man had been there a little while earlier. He didn't run anywhere unlike some we often see, so we don't see in the assembly, and they're not said to have escaped. But they actually ran away because they're gone. Mr. Shime Luchin, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60752	Thank you very much. I'm correcting the incorrect quote around the drawer. Madam Prime Minister, you have my full support and open all drawers publicly. However, it is incorrect that you will open the drawers. Why? All drawers are open in 2004, 2005, 2006. There's a record of that in the crime scene. I'll help you find them. What you are now doing with the opening of the drawers of God is that you are trying to relativize your guilt by blaming those before. Madam Prime Minister cannot pass this and will not pass the team before it seems to me that you are very much in the immediate area commenting on the sins of some before you get involved in the judiciary in a certain way, giving lessons, and in a certain way politicizing and police work. I'm asking you not to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60753	I think a well-intentioned help would be welcome to anyone. Here we see the former Home Secretary offering his help. We need to assess what he can do to help. Mr. Dragutin Lesar also has a correction to the Inaccurate Allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60754	The first alleged several times the government invested money. The government has no money to invest it, but the government is investing public money. The government is deploying public money owned by citizens of this country. This repetition that the government invested money actually indicates a relationship to public money. Second. We have a consensus to join the European Union. Mrs. Kosor may have an interparty, political consensus for Croatia's entry into the European Union. But as far as I know, no one has asked anything so far, so let's wait for the referendum and then see we have or have no consensus with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And I'll finish the next one. You said everything about Croatia in the end. Mrs. Kosor, you don't have to give everything for Croatia. It's enough to resign.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60755	That's your opinion. And the last correction, is Mr. Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60756	I am correcting Mrs. Kosor's allegations that by taking office as Croatian prime minister in the interest of improving the citizens' standard of living, she spent two budget rebalances in July. In these two rebalancing events, the following happened because of the Croatian public. Free textbooks for children have been lifted, and free transportation for textbooks has been lifted, and then a hack was introduced. So much for protecting the standards of Croatian citizens and Mrs Kosor's moves.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60757	Thank you. You haven't fixed anything here, you've just decided politically that it was. Thanks, but it's nothing new, so we're moving on. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60758	So once again, please take charge of this session. And this incident that lasts almost 40 minutes now best shows what a mess is in your ranks. It is impossible for the President of the Parliament, chairing at this time, to know so much about the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament that he needs this aggressive mentorship from the first bench. This isn't normal. This is the desacration of this institution. Please respond. As for the reaction, there were nearly 30 corrections to incorrect allegations from the HDZ bench, and there were nearly 20 of them from the SDP bench. I'm not gonna say it's a reaction so we don't talk like kids. No one from the SDP bench said that the prime minister was being silly, and it wasn't being used, I would say by a ground floor colloquial speech, as we heard from the mouth more than a few HDZ members, wanting to like the boss very much. They did it. You didn't react to that. There was no leprosy, there was no luppet expression, there were no simple coffee jokes like we heard from HDZ representatives, please nice, and in the presence of a lady who was their president. You can't do that. So please don't harass us, first here, then spread out. I want you to solve your problems. Since you know that we are in cahoots with your political mentor and father, here you can take a breath, he is, and I know that of course, because I am holding the lottery, said an hour ago that you can be calm, and that he will never vote if he were here against the government he created and in whose formation he participated and baptized. You can stay calm. Now everything can go back to normal. Sleep tight. Madam Prime Minister, of course, has been denied. So I wouldn't do that. Well, God's people, I mean, forgive this expression, it's currently a weight around the neck of Croatia, we have to deal with it. That's what we have to do. And I'm not going to tell any of you that she's being silly, but she's twisting the truth, that she's deliberately making logical mistakes, that she's using physicals, etc. That's what I'm gonna say. Mrs. Kosor here in her exhibiting a whole series of things listed, the SDP did not support, the SDP is against, the SDP is threatening to eliminate, or cancel, and I will tell you which, the only one, we will do. Credit relief for the first apartment. That's what I said. In Slavonski Brod and nothing more. What painful cuts. You can throw as much as you want, but the last name you mentioned earlier, that man wasn't the SDP president, he was a member of the SDP, he wasn't elected to a democratic assembly, or at the SDP Democratic Convention, he didn't get a majority. No one swore to him. And so I say, every party, every family has its own problems, has its own traumas, has its own procedures, has its own difficulties, but this is just a single history of service, and I would say political immorality. It's not an insult. And I didn't say you were talking. That's a fact, for us it's a fact. And when you criticize us, stick to the facts. You're talking about shipyards. For seven years, this government has managed every single kuna of the state budget. And what was done in the shipbuilding? Here we see it now closing probably, unfortunately in front of the door, a large shipyard in a large Croatian town, where the first torpedoes, the first submarines in the world were built or among the first to form a Croatian material culture. I'm not saying that that shipyard had to be at the level of Swedish shipyards, but people haven't done anything in seven years. Seven years. Seven years of stagnation, seven years of bad politics, seven years of dubious politics. Ship's split. So where'd the money go from Brodosplit? So is it possible that no one in HDZ has ever wondered where strangers got so much money? Is that possible? Here you know, Mr. Schucker, you were the head of finance for the Youth Action Sava or the Brotherhood and Unity, you know with the money,... Social Youth Alliance conferences, it was a professional job, you don't know with finances, do you? [[You don't understand.]] I'm good at talking. I'm not. That's when I went to college. But I appreciate those who are, especially those who are worthy of some of their ideals. How come nobody ever wondered where the money came from? From where unlimited campaign funds come from, when HDZ has little more than SDP on regular incomes. Where did millions come from? Did anyone ask that question? Secretary General of the HDZ, where did millions come from? You just correct the wrong quote, but that's the question, where are the millions from? And it's a debate about morality and credibility in politics. You've been waving a lot of cases here more than once than I have, penalizing here, traumatizing the heads of small municipalities like Mljet, for some crime. It's not gonna happen. It's a hive. Penalty for reporting to the police. You're saying we're putting pressure on the judiciary. After years and years of digging, and criminal police charges dismissed. It's not gonna happen. That's where you announced her in this House. Big Gorica, Tonino Picula. It's not gonna happen. Discarded by the State's Attorney's Office. River markets. After 17 years of digging, here are now 8 months of acidification in the State's Attorney's Office 600 kilometers from Rijeka, as the climate is anti-legislative in Rijeka. Still none of that. Daimler. I love this subject very much. This subject is making me sick, because I'm more than interested in anything. I'm more interested in where it went and where did the money Daimler was paying by 2008, and the director of IM Metal say by 2009. Is it the late Racan? To me? One of these gentlemen here? That's more than I'm interested in, that's what I'm interested in most. Let's see who Daimler's been bribing for five years through the phases and phases of realising the job of getting fire trucks. Public procurement for us is sacred. But I'm more interested in that, so each time you ask yourself, "Who's oiled by 2009?" I'm sure it's the opposition. You told Madam Prime Minister that we stated that anyone could come to the place of state's attorney. No, never! Never, no! Never, I said there's a lot of candidates for that place, not anyone. You've got it all wrong, and I'm going to explain it here again. There's a lot of candidates under legal conditions. It's a lonely job, it's a job of a man who doesn't live in public, it's a job where he doesn't play on inspiration. It's not a soccer player's job where you're remembered for the last three games and they say, "He's great, don't touch him naked." It's a job where there's no calculatoring, in which there's no order but by law. Politicians, you and I, have the right to calculate. Don't be calculators, calculate politically until they break the law and do something to achieve a legitimate goal tomorrow and bring it to voters. The state's attorney doesn't have the right to do that. If he's doing it, he's making a serious breach of duty. That's what we're talking about here, and I'm talking about these criteria, and when I say no one but many candidates, it really means that according to the legal criteria, it's possible for this job to work and that the criteria satisfy a lot of professionals from the State's Attorney's Office, etc. So it's not a job where we're looking for the best angiographer or neurosurgeon because there's one in this room or two. It's a job that requires character and firm will. As well as for the work of the Prime Minister, but also wisdom. But also the ability to calculate sometimes in the national interest and all that together. And that's why it's not easy. And when you quote and mention Obama, etc., I understand your position because when Bill Clinton, you can quote Gold Meir, ask if Obama was ready for President Clinton's post, nobody was ever ready for that job before he started doing it. Well, it's similar with the prime minister's duty. It's similar to every high duty. There's a lot of heroes out there. Here you have declared us a whole series of sweets Croatia will receive when it joins the EU. Imagine we'll get 12 Europarliamentaries. It's amazing! We'll get a judge of the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg. ... No, Mrs. Kosor, I'm familiar with these things on the surface, I've studied it, I've mastered it, I've been in these institutions, I've been interned and I consider myself a little apprentice, but Mrs. Kosor gets it from anyone who joins the EU. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] These are the institutions of the Union. It's like saying Croatia will get the Parliament. Well, Croatia has a Parliament. And finally, at this stage, pressure on coalition partners, your coalition partners. Well, look, this is an open arena. We're in the public sphere. We don't have millions that are blacked out, we don't have a way and we don't work so we buy people, no, it doesn't mean that you do it, God forbid, I'm just saying. So, we can only appeal to the public and pressure on our conscience and responsibility to invite your coalition partners to be aware that every day your government is in trouble with Croatia. That doesn't mean they're traitors, it doesn't mean they're enemies of Croatia, I don't mean that to you either. Your government is a Croatian problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60759	Mr. Representative, you started this debate of yours by inviting me to start leading the Parliament. I lead the council to the extent possible under these circumstances correctly, in my opinion. And it's not just Vice President Shakespeare's Rules of Procedure, more and more are coming to light in this specialization and Mr. Gordan Maras. And he often reports a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, as Mato Arlovic is gone, we have another Special Agent in respect of the Rules of Procedure. However, I try to learn from everyone and accept every constructive proposal, so I am also grateful to Anton Vujic for intervened earlier in this regard. Here. But didn't I recently get a round of applause from you when I was running a session of the Parliament? So then I thanked you and said don't applaud me too much because there's going to be a chance when it's going to be the other way around. That's why I'm trying to keep this as long as I can. My forces are only based on the Rules of Procedure. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. First Mr. Vice President Vladimir Shakespeare. ... Correction of the quote? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, Mr. Jarnjak has a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60760	It is true, Article 209(2). - It is unacceptable, and in this assembly we must say that the leader of the opposition parties, Mr Milanovic, and insinuations accuses the government, accuses the HDZ party, tries to call me too to respond to his reply to confirm these accusations, is absolutely unacceptable and cannot be done by the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, the leader of the opposition, the main opposition parties, cannot comment on all possible processes that are under way, which are never commented, as this puts pressure on court proceedings. And the third thing, he talked about everything except the subject that's on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60761	Thank you. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Gordan Maras, who actually confirms this my thesis that he specializes in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60762	Thank you very much. I just wanted to say that Mr. Jarnjak said the correcting of the incorrect allegations, not the violation of the Rules of Procedure, because Mr. Milanovic reported on behalf of the promoter. So it's impossible that he hurt the Rules of Procedure if he was talking about our proposal, and that's what he was talking about. It means that, and especially Article 209(2), since it says here that correction is an incorrect assumption, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60763	He can speak at any moment when the motionary speaks, when the Prime Minister speaks, when anyone can raise a plate of injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Is that correct or isn't that another question, but it can lift. As can correct an incorrect quote, but like I said, it can't replicate. Therefore, everything was correct in accordance with our Parliamentary Rules of Procedure. I would now ask you to be patient before I give my word to the Prime Minister. We have quite a correction of incorrect allegations. The first is Mr. Vice President Vladimir Shakespeare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60764	Thank you very much. It is not true, it is an incorrect claim by MP Zoran Milanovic that I am in charge of this assembly session. So, respected Mr. Milanovic invites the presidents of the parliament to take over the session's management. The sitting is managed by a lively and healthy current president of the Luka Bebic Assembly. And by doing that, Mr. Milanovic, for me to use my business rights and report for violations of the Rules of Procedure, I hope you won't deny it. You wouldn't deny it. Well, yes, you would. Well, you see, you're calling on the President of the Parliament to take over the session's management because by making my argument... by using my business rights by me managing the session of the Parliament. That would be enough for a basic logic not to fail the exam or to fail the elementary logic exam, Mr Milanovic. The second is your incorrect claim where you insinuate that all suspects should prove their innocence. You'd fall for a first-year colloquium from state and law theory.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60765	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60766	The accused should not prove his innocence, but someone else should prove him innocent.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60767	Mr. Representative Josip Salapic. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60768	Mr. President. I would like to correct two incorrect allegations by Mr Milanovic. The first is that our government is a serious threat to Croatia. And another incorrect quote is an explanation of the procedure. Today we are called to make professional corrections to incorrect allegations. I would say that you are unprofessionally doing this because you are in violation and abuse of the Rules of Procedure all the time, because if you were serious Mrs. Kosor would be sitting across the Banski Dvori today solving the problems of Croatian citizens and Croatia, and not listening to your nonsense.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60769	Thank you. But I'm also asking you, Mr. Representative, not to qualify anyone's hearing as nonsense. Don't, I mean it's once again creating one possibility for further escalating those incorrect ones. Mrs. Neda Klaric will have a correction to the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60770	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I am correcting Mr. Representative's allegations of seven years of dubious politics. That's wrong, Mr. Milanovic. And by the way, I'm going to say that it's actually appropriate for the SDP, and I'm going to tell you an example of the city of Sibenik when the largest state-wide decision not to contribute to the ruling coalition in the city of Sibenik is then suspected of such a finding by such state bodies. Of course, then it makes direct pressure on the highest state bodies. And I'm asking you now, in what way, what are the instruments of this government to ward off suspicion of something that has already been drawn as a doubt? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60771	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Anton Mance.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60772	Here I would correct the wrong order of Mr Milanovic when he listed numerous affairs, but he also mentioned the Rijeka markets as if the case had already been resolved or how it would be resolved. I would just point out that the Rijeka Markets, so everyone who's been in some functions and running cities, and I don't know that any market is profitable, and this one's profitable to some party colleague who's been picking up six to seven million dollars a year, and as far as we can see, he's picked up 80 million. So it's completely wrong. This item has not been solved. I hope that he will be resolved and will be considered that something so profitable is not given. And there is a city of Rijeka as well as other cities of more utility companies that he could then give, of course, to the concession, but not to give but to this profitable one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60773	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60774	Mr. President. A colleague Milanovic says "public procurement for SDP is sacred", which is not true. I would only ask Mr Milanovic to look in Sibenik at how and how they are conducted and how much in the past year while in power were 69 thousand 999 kuna, so as to make sure that the public procurement for SDP is not sacred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60775	Thank you. Mr. Branko Bačić corrects the incorrect allegations. No, I don't. Then Mr. Frano Matušić rectifies the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60776	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it is an incorrect assumption from counterpart Milanovic that the SDP has no darkened millions. He's got millions of them in darkness. 80 million darkened Rijeka Markets, 4.7m euros in the Dimler case, not for what has been pulled out by counterpart Milanovic as it has not been paid for several years. That as it was paid to whom it would determine the investigation, but a clear representative of Daimler said, that money was given to conclude a contract for the purchase of those vehicles. And it's known who was in power then and who made that deal. And that's what the money was given for, and it's been admitted to the U.S. court. You blacked out the money and Victor Lentz was given hundreds of millions of dollars to private owners. The money's blacked out in a lot of places. The apartments taken are now in HEP known who took them. They'll reach Istria.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60777	All right, then let those in charge light on it, and we'll discuss it here in the Parliament. Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60778	Thank you, Mr. President. In his political comment, Mr Milanovic is more concerned with HDZ again than with the topic he himself suggested. But I'm correcting an incorrect quote. Seven years of dubious politics. That's not true. This government deals with resolution and serious policies. The fight against corruption wanted to recognise it in the SDP but thus, by implementing economic recovery measures and even unpopular measures that sometimes harm, but are courageously fighting these and responsible and demanding jobs for EU accession negotiations. These are the basic tasks the government is struggling with and are not suspicious of. They are very visible, transparent and well-known to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60779	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60780	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's counterpart Milanovic claims that there is an illegality in Rijeka that is certainly not true. Now there is illegality, but it is true that it did not rule at a time when some were clearly on the payroll of the City of Rijeka. Unless he meant the illegal court of the Social Democratic Party, which is sitting every week with Slavko Linic and his political watchmaker Željko Jovanovic, who accuses in all ways HDZ of clouding all affairs related to Slavko Linić and not counting, Croatian Railways, INA and not counting, we have heard many times today. Then I believe that illegality is in effect.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60781	Thank you. But again, we're getting involved in investigations and labels. Let's not do that. We're trying to avoid something like that. Mr. Representative Buric has a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60782	Your Honor, Mr. President. Injury of the Rules of Procedure pursuant to Article 210 We're not talking about the subject that's being discussed and what's on the agenda. Mrs. Kosor received a message from Brussels the other day to get rid of any family corruption. What we are witnessing today is nothing more than a play by the HDZ Representatives Club in order to exhaust citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are following this transfer and want to hear the arguments why this government should leave. The desire is obvious to wait until midnight when the cameras will be turned off so the people won't hear what they need to hear. But I can only tell you... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60783	Thank you very much. I don't know what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Branko Box. Here you go, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60784	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, counterpart Jovanovic said the government's presidents "you traumatized the heads of small municipalities". No, Mr. Milanovic, exactly the opposite. We are in Zadar County witnesses, during your government, that you brought nothing less than from Rijeka and, by chance, the chief of police administration, and as you know at the head of all municipalities, or the large majority of municipalities and cities in Zadar County, is HDZ. I'm a witness who has experienced on his skin that your drunk police chief threatened not only me but several other mayors and mayors. There's so much about you and your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60785	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60786	It is an incorrect claim by MP Milanovic that this government is causing trouble to the people. It is an irresponsible claim by the representatives paid by the citizens of this country, which is almost never in his place of work, and when he comes to the Assembly, he needs a navigation system to get him to his seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60787	Thank you very much. But we can already put that into folklore, more folklore, but I think. Thank you very much. He has the word of the Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60788	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to try very briefly, but I have a need to help, if it's possible that this debate is really going in the right direction. In fact, I don't think it would be good for anyone in this assembly to manipulate the conduct of the session or the way the session is conducted. That is exactly what Mr. Milanovic pointed out earlier, warning of the right of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs to appear for correction of the incorrect allegations, but also for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. But that's not the most important thing I thought I should answer. Namely, I ask you to focus, especially you proposing requests for my shift, or for the downfall of the government, on what we should actually talk about today. The topic here is not, first of all, the trial of the Government, this is not a courtroom, this is a assembly, and certainly the topic is not the Croatian Democratic Community, the largest, strongest, winning party, historical party in Croatia. It is not a topic and it is not a topic or can be discussed in the Croatian Parliament relatively or not in the party, in any party. The topic of what you have put on the agenda is very clear, and I propose and pray and appeal on behalf of the Government that we stick to it, and that we do not talk about internal matters in the Croatian democratic community because it is not, we will discuss this on our bodies of our party, but I am taking away the right of any other party to discuss in this assembly who says within the Croatian Democratic Community and that Croatian Democratic Community MPs step forward as a insistence that, as the representative Milanovic said, representatives and representatives of the HDZ like the boss. I am not running the party as head but as president of the Croatian Democratic Union. I am no one's boss, I am president, I am Prime Minister and as Prime Minister, as a responsible person, I lead a government that is coalition, in which, of course, everyone has the right and the opportunity to propose, to express their views and opinions. And it is normal for MPs and representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community to rise up and demand corrections of incorrect allegations and violations of the Rules of Procedure when SDP representatives repeatedly repeat that this government has disgraced Croatia. I'm really opposed to that kind of debate, but of course from this position I can't influence it, and I actually think it's a good transfer. Inaccurately, MP Buric says the cameras will be shut down, no. You should know more about the laws, the debate will be on the move all the time because it is about showing confidence to the government. And one more thing I have to do again. It is true to Mr Milanovic that when it was debated the government's proposal that Mr Mladen Bajic was appointed and elected chief state attorney, you said not him even though he had success. That's what I'm adding, but you can ask our question from these benches and who then you said anyone. And you want him to leave, so you want this government gone, this government that proposed Mladen Bajic to be the attorney general you want to go and you want to stop fighting corruption. And the fact is that we could count it now, but I will absolutely refrain from all the affairs affecting many parties in Croatia, and I think it would be wrong this time, if it should be until the end of the debate we can do so too. But listing different affairs is counterproductive in the fight against corruption in this place, but we gather together and let's say we go together to fight this evil no matter whose door it came, regardless of the name and name, no matter who it was, that of course no matter which party it belonged to. And let's just say not enough for those who steal. It's our business together. You can join, you can obstruct it as you wish. So, and something else at the very end. Since MP Milanovic has again called on coalition partners in this government, in this parliamentary majority to be aware that he will once again try to hit coalition partners. I want to say very responsibly. Our partners are aware and responsible people whose interests of Croatia are at heart and they are consistently protecting them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60789	Thank you. We have two incorrect allegations. Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60790	Inaccurately claims Madam Prime Minister that we have nothing to say about the party. The parties act publicly. The parties are no secret society. And Mrs. Kosor, if anything was ever good, you say it's a deserved HDZ. That is how you now question your responsibility, or your government. You claim there's nothing to argue about HDZ. So, old story. Responsible for everything, responsible for nothing. And responsibility is perfectly clear because you now, why these issues matter. Because the issue of HDZ agony is essentially about the agony and hostage crisis of the entire state. You're more in pain and you're afraid of what Sanader will say than the warnings that Governor Rohatinski tells you. Therefore, to break that agony, it is just important that you listen to any people and stand down.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60791	We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60792	Thank you very much. A colleague, Article 209(2), did not stick to the topic the prime minister was talking about. And I would suggest that the prime minister here be appointed another minister in her government -- an alien minister who would have contact with aliens.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60793	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60794	Thank you very much. I would correct Mrs. Prime Minister when she said that since we're asking her to leave and leave Bajic to stop us from fighting corruption. I guess no one in Croatia believes those words, that is, to stop the SDP from fighting corruption. Wait a minute! Because she's demanding Prime Minister Kosor's departure. I think this belongs to science fiction. And as Prime Minister Kosor defends corruption and the fight against corruption has been saying enough and her debate since two years ago when Prime Minister Sanader left the meeting of Prime Minister Kosor repeated these same words from the pay phone. I'll tell you what those words are. For the then Prime Minister Sanader's government, she said: "I will remind of, of course, that in the past term, Sanader's government has done the same, and now it has made significant steps primarily to strengthen institutions such as the State's Attorney's Office independently but has also created a legislative framework but has also created material assumptions to strengthen these institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60795	Thank you very much. For his word, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic answered on behalf of the motionary, and I ask Vice President Seks to replace me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60796	And I, Mrs Kosor, address all MPs in the House as mature and responsible people, as well as HDZ representatives, as well as representatives of your coalition partners. I guess that right exists, so we don't manipulate them, we're not trying to get them in any way illegal but in a transparent and public way. That's legitimate. And the more public you do it, the better. Otherwise, this dynamic is good at changing opinions and attitudes. This is what some democratic parliaments do every Wednesday. To see what it looks like, say, in Great Britain the day after or how it goes. So here's what I was talking about and what I want to warn you about. If you have read this initiative of 58 MPs, and I believe it is as I have read your answer, or your address to the Government, then you have seen that in our document, in our writing, in our submission the HDZ is mentioned in several places. Don't quote now. So that's the point. You know what your main problem is? In the fact that I'm aware they're not waving at me, and you're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60797	My colleague Milanović, you're welcome. They're waving at you on the way out!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60798	No, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's what they say and Mr. Shakespeare says hello to you and your doctorate from you know what chicane behavior is. That's when you use your own right just to do harm to others. That you know as... That's what it's called. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's chicane right there. So, not to me, but to my colleague Baby. So, Mrs. Kosor is, and so is the gentleman here from the second row, the representative of the HDZ again uses this space and this public media to label and write judgments. I ask the questions. These issues are provoked by investigations, indictments and serious suspicions. When you mention the Dubrovnik hotels, Viktor Lenac and what I have quoted earlier, you mention cases in which the actions have been interrupted and the reports were either police or HDZ rejected, rejected. How can I, beside you, fall into oblivion? Well, people, every session of Parliament, you keep reminding me that it exists. Let's say the Prime Minister who opens cases here spoke about specific cases on several occasions. I'll even remind you that at the current morning, early in the year, she was synchronised with the police administration, so 15 minutes after the press conference of the police administration, the Prime Minister knew everything about the police report in Koprivnica. Everything. It's not usually an application for a corrupt act, it's an unconscious business. So not for corruption. That application is what? Discarded. You do it again. So you didn't hear that, I could have talked about Brodosplit, about millions of dollars that went missing, about the big doubts that were born here, about the system that was being monitored by still the current government member. Did I say that today? That's where I'm gonna stop. You label and make judgments. Maybe you'd be a good state's attorney if you'd ended up just like God's day. So the parties are the subject. Croatia is a multi-party parliamentary democracy under the Constitution. In our memo, our initiative mentions your HDZ party in many places, as much as you want to darken it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60799	My fellow Milanović, I thank you for this very valuable contribution and contribution where you are the truth a little ironic seems to have granted me a doctorate from, with a doctoral dissertation from the chicane. I'm afraid I can't compliment you, because I can't grant you a doctorate from any area, since you have no assumptions about it, so I'm sorry. I wanted to compliment you, but unfortunately I can't if I don't have a legal basis for it. ... No, you have fiction, maybe, illusions, but you have no idea. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60800	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I'm going to correct an incorrect allegation where the rejections were claimed to be obsolete in certain proceedings against your members of the SDP. It is evident that Doris Hrast has kept her in a drawer for years and thus has become obsolete, and is therefore rewarded with a transfer to another county. Also suspicious rejections in Koprivnica where the husband of a state-run county attorney is employed in the municipal enterprise of the town of Koprivnica, and this rejection should certainly be examined through the institutions of the Croatian judiciary, police and everything, which is why this criminal application has been rejected in the first place, and is not really a state lawyer involved there either in what is called blurry and blackout.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60801	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zastavnik Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60802	So fellow Djakic, and this is what some other MPs usually do, has done an injury by making a lie. ... This Regulation shall [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60803	Peace. Please let Agent Mršić, according to article 7, you said yes? To explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60804	So Djakic presented the lie and committed possible and some even criminal acts, such as the crime forced on a judicial official, and the truth is that the rejection was made primarily by a lawyer whose husband is employed in a municipal enterprise, because the lawyer who made the rejection was divorced, so he is no longer married. That's funny to you. You're kicking people's fates. You're kicking people's fates and committing an impossible coercion against judicial officials, and the state's attorneys are going to remind you of the judicial officials. And secondly, at the request of the police minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60805	Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60806	Allow me. I was distracted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60807	I can't take it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60808	At the request of Minister Karamark, a public attorney has carried out a review of the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60809	He's a colleague of Mršić's. Be nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60810	And found that there were no irregularities... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60811	Don't do this to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60812	Because it's true. Don't use this case any more the way you use it, because you're doing a crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60813	My colleagues and colleagues, the ironic representative Mršić calls for Article 7. The Rules of Procedure, which discusses the adoption of the Mandate-Immunity Commission's report. It's to point to one cartoon, one style. It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Mršić, because you claim in your performance that he spoke falsely, that he was false. Well, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it could have been just a correction of an incorrect assumption, which you had no right to. Secondly, a representative cannot commit his words and words to a criminal act, or coercion against a judicial official, or anyone. The representative cannot be called upon to have any responsibility for the word and opinion expressed in the Croatian Parliament, thus neither for the criminal offence. Let's go. What? Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60814	I'm correcting an incorrect quote from my second-class colleagues. A fellow in the second row said that we had marked, when we talked about the affairs related to the privatisation of Dubrovnik hotels, and that it was rejected, and that it was settled. It has not been solved, because crime from the conversion and privatisation of changes and changes to the Constitution is no longer outdated, and certainly there has been crime in the process, and it is certain that the State's Attorney's Office will also deal with this crime in the conversion and privatisation of Dubrovnik hotels. Let a colleague come from the second row to Dubrovnik and say there was no crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60815	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60816	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, namely, the Rules of Procedure were injured in Article 209 when Col. Mršić used the violation of the Rules of Procedure to elaborate his innocence. I didn't suspect anyone, but I assumed the facts that were visible from the transfer of Doris Oak from Rijeka to Osijek, as well as the sale of the famous resort that today was bought by the Russians for enormous millions in euro amount, so it could be compared to who actually did the assessment at that time and which is why the application was actually rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60817	Okay, I've already said that it wasn't about hurting the Rules of Procedure very clearly and precisely, is it a colleague? Now we're going to a club debate. First club IDS, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60818	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister. Yeah, I signed this request that it really doesn't make sense to ask the government for trust. Because this government has no trust at all, so I don't know why they're looking for something that doesn't exist. But, gentlemen, I think the people really need to be told the truth that this government had confidence in its people probably wouldn't have left behind such a wasteland. Here after the departure of Sanader, which is now gone, I think a team that remains to trust the people would not rule without, let go of those 77 signatures, legitimacy. And for this situation, I think the most responsible two prime ministers, former and current ministers, are HDZ representatives. Okay, let's be ourselves, you who saw the deity in Eve Sanader yesterday, beat him as close as possible, and now you're ashamed of him and you're giving him your hand. And it's an amazing twist. And if that's not the one inside the party war you deny inside HDZ, I don't know what that party war is. I, to be honest, I'm thinking about Eva Sanader's period today the same thing I thought about a year and a half ago and 2.5 and 3.5 and 5.5 years ago. And I was saying that even when he's leaving, he's not to be trusted. But as much as I trust the team he says he chose and set her up. Indeed, the earth is destroyed, and rather it may be worse than it will soon be better. In 2009, only a small gross product statistics drop 5.8%, 2010 another 2%. I'm afraid it's going to fall in 2011 as well. Today we have 102 workers who are retired, who are unemployed. We've crossed 300 thousand unemployed. ... There'll be at least 330 thousand of them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the first year of Jadranka Kosor, current prime minister, more precisely from 1.07.2009 to 1.07.2010. Croatia lost not 80,000 jobs as the opposition's proposal puts it, but 89,000 and 19 jobs. To this day, over 100,000 jobs. Investments in 2010. They're 3 times less than the recession 2009. Shipbuilding, thank God the Oilman is at least stable. Textile, construction before break-in. This year, the state budget has borrowed 32 billion kuna. With extra budget funds, that's 40 billion kuna. In 2011, 10 billion euros should be paid back. Clearly, this applies to both the state and the banks and the economy. 10 billion euros should be paid back, and the question is whether the state ministers will succeed in finding foreign exchanges to service imports and pay off foreign debt. Because Governor Rohatinski probably doesn't speak out of his mind when he calls the IMF for the first time, I guess he realizes it's going to be hard to serve international obligations next year. But I hope that even if the IMF comes, there won't be a correction of the course, because that's not for the government's policy to fail, that would be the failure of the CNB's policy. But what it would be and what it would be with the over-indebted citizens about it shouldn't even be spoken of at all. It means once in a word, although there is no Prime Minister here, here she comes in, and the prime minister herself has recently called for Papa's support, and President Josipovic has promised that the Pope will visit us in 2011, I think this country I think even dear God can't help so soon. And to be clear, I don't think, to be completely open, quite frankly, that the opposition overnight will change opportunities for the better. It's simple, gentlemen, impossible. But the later there's an election, I think the harder it's gonna be for this country to change. And there is no doubt and opposition clear that it will be difficult to run Croatia, but I don't think this government will start Croatia. And we've come, I don't know, to one situation that the only true benchmark of value at this point is our tycoons that are tycooning us about what should be done at some point simply. Gentlemen of the Government or Parliament, however, i.e. Your HDZ within the party war has destroyed Croatia. And we all see that gentlemen are at war for HDZ's legacy. I see that Sanader's battle is not even apparent, but Croatia is the longer the battle lasts in one of the more unspeakable situations. It's clear to us that this team that's in power now needs to be defeated, I don't know the sleepers, not to tell Sanader, because losing the election is easy for some to lose, but they can also be left without a party. And the government gets it, the government loses, but without the party there's no going back to power anymore, and that's probably the best behind me to understand exactly Mr. Shakespeare. And then, in that spirit, we had the opportunity to read constantly about what, 15 days ago, we're swearing to you that we don't turn away from your path, but on the other hand, there's also someone on that base, trying to tell Sanader what's more, under quotes, "creation and lies" that's what we prefer. And we Istrians would order out with him and out with them will not be us. Now, Mr. Milanovic just quoted this statement by Mr. Sanader. He literally said he would not be at the debate and the vote, and he cannot imagine that he would be against the majority he created after the election victory. But normally I say it doesn't exclude what he said about fighting a battle of non-democracy, non-European, etc. I agree with President Josipovic that there is no state of emergency in Croatia, but if it is true that in Croatia individuals begin to impose penalties on their political opponents, if the judiciary, the State's Attorney's Office puts the team in charge, then it returns us to '71. And what's possible is that it may be a crawling state of emergency. And that's what's scariest thing to do right now. It's easy for the hair to share, but when it instrumentizes institutions, and they send us messages, we're ready for you when you come to power to do jobs, I say that's not how it should be. And he can't, and I'm saying that the country is the hostage of this within a party battle, within the HDZ, one HDZ to judge the other. Both both the IDS and any other political site should be tried by the citizens in the elections, and if there is a crime from the IDS, let independent courts judge me through others, not to raise the finger of a small hand or a large hand, so that they fall on someone else's punishment. And that's what gentlemen just need to be afraid of. Because it is unlikely that only those who have implemented certain decisions are responsible, and those who sign the decisions are not responsible, I don't know about the INA, HEP, etc. I keep talking, every one of us can make a mistake, and no one can, but the one taken is clearly not allowed, it can be wrong. I see Stephen right, be inspired after that. Let no one say the same thing. Don't think there are any governments that can only make good decisions. There's no government like that. Neither is it this one nor is it the future one nor is it the one in America, England I don't know where, even though the Pope is on our side I don't know how many times. But I would also ask that no one call on the Pope because I have the impression that as soon as they hear it, they cross right into the Vatican, and they immediately decided to send the Pope to reason with us after that. I think you gentlemen are simply fighting for the legacy of the HDZ. I'm not interested in this HDZ, but I'm curious about what's just going on with Croatia? With this country almost no one will have to deal with it, no one will invest, Croatia, so they will not, will not close the negotiations with this government. I'm afraid we'll only sink for a year. And the longer this team runs this country, the worse I think it's gonna be for the citizens, and I'd like to be wronged along with you. I'd really like to be mistaken if you were correcting my allegations, insulting me, declaring me Nostradamus. But recently, the government itself has said, Mr. Representative, that we have five difficult years ahead of us. And that's the point. Irregular rectifiers of false allegations insult you, but again you will prove yourself wise to the leadership, but your most loyal sees beyond this assembly that this team no longer holds water in power. The former prime minister certainly doesn't have the credibility to lead this country, it's not disputed, because the man escaped without reason, but that man who is the loudest to be denied by you, brought this team to power, so it would be your turn to give him a place here, somewhere, not behind. Although it certainly doesn't bother those in the back. And let's talk about who's gonna sit where I'm sitting through Shakespeare, and Sanader is decided by someone else. As for this Slovenia, which the prime minister spoke of, here you conclude that the common sky will be guarded by the common aviation ok. I read point 12 of defence co-operation with Serbia, why not keep us from the sky of Belgrade, perhaps standing there, I don't mind. But then give it to me, ma'am, when you're already seeing each other in Istria, etc. And elsewhere with him, make arrangements to pave yourselves. But what is Istria and Lovran? She was and will be Istra Lovran. ... History, traditions, identities of people who just live there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But before you do that, I want you to make arrangements with Pahor to paphalize the bridge across the canal of St. It's a 15-metre breakout, not that there's something that can't be paved by something the stream took 20 days ago. Finally, what is livingly clear about shipbuilding, which I don't know about Croatian highways, with industries, investments, INA, MOL, I don't know about Hungary? Here these days, Opel, the Audi are investing a billion and a half euros. Croatia simply nothing. And you believe this or you don't see what's going on or not, but it just doesn't lead to anything anymore. Open the drawers but also clearly do not just do so by the principle of who is in power to clutch it. There'll be another one and it'll be done again. A wrong man can, steal just can't. All in all, I'm afraid that Croatia is in big trouble, I won't say broke. The election will come. The later these elections come, the harder it will be, but with this war inside the HDZ, Croatia will find it difficult to recover. The Holy Father won't save us, Mr. Representative. And the Pope doesn't come to Croatia for nothing, because the concordate costs money. The blessing costs, but I look forward to it, unlike many, and that coming. But to be honest with you, I don't believe in miracles, so neither can this government move this country or it can give hope. And for the end, just one sentence. Let's not play around, I don't know the all-powerful, so lifting one finger gives someone a year's punishment for the index finger, I don't know if they're questioning decisions by the Constitutional Court, and it's fortunate that those people who work there were wise enough so they didn't lift their middle finger and deny the 720 thousand signatures the government asked for from this Legislative Committee. Well, that's some of the reasons, and I'll discuss it in private later on in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60819	No, man's gonna be late for a private hearing. You need to keep your privacy. We have one handful, a dozen or a length of corrections of incorrect allegations. First, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60820	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, in a series of inaccuracies cited by fellow Caine, I'd only be one or two. In fact, he claimed that the government had no legitimacy, which is absolutely incorrect and absolutely not standing. Mr. Cain should know that all the MPs elected to this house have legitimacy. So the coalition that is composed certainly has legitimacy and 81 MPs are the legitimacy of this government. Well, I don't know what you're absolutely talking about, and that will be confirmed in your vote. And what I'd like to make right is one more, which is that those who are in power to handle you. But it's not true, it's absolutely not true. Right from the government comes an initiative to question and all those who are in the nice companies, out of power, so there will probably come an initiative from someone to reconsider how you sold the land...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60821	Good! Good! And Mr. Representative Frano Matušić And it doesn't make sense? ... [[Intruder: Doesn't make sense.]] Then say I'm pulling, and it doesn't make sense because it might make sense. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60822	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would have corrected two incorrect allegations, and there were more. First, that this government has no trust and second, that this government has been spent. Mr. Cain, if this government didn't trust you today, you wouldn't be nervous about this side and this side. Your nervousness is justified because this government has done a hard job, and this has drawn Croatia out of the economic crisis, we have brought Croatia to the door of the European Union, saved jobs, there have been no cuts in wages and pensions and justified the trust of our citizens. You all SDP gentlemen and everyone who signed this initiative are rightly nervous because this government, headed by our president, will introduce Croatia into the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60823	Thank you. And Madam Representative Nevenka Majdenić Same thing. [[It doesn't make sense, does it?]] Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60824	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I am almost giving up thinking it doesn't make sense, but since I'm a colleague, (speaking off.)...to say that he said the incorrect assumption that this government has no trust and let it go in the end says it's not true, let's release those 77 signatures, it's not 77, it's 82 dear colleagues. [[You don't, you don't, you have to.]] But you're the one who insists on polling and with the Electoral Law, last week you were with the Constitution and with the Constitutional Court you also polluted. And that confirms that my thesis that you are for the law of the forest, and in the law of the forest is stronger the one who bites more, yells, etc., and you are in that category very incomparable. Second thing, then I remember if you'd become God forbid the president that you were a candidate a short time ago, then that would really be your dictionary said awful. (Laughter) But you are referring to someone, to God. I'll say forgive him God, he doesn't know what he's doing. Thank you very much. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60825	Okay. Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60826	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to correct an incorrect allegation of a representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60827	Wait a minute, wait a minute. Wait, so I can't, now I have, you'll get the word, let him finish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60828	Thank you. In a series of inaccuracies, I will correct a correction to the incorrect allegations of fellow Caine, who claimed that the case law or the judiciary is placed on one party of the team in power. It is precisely the actions of this government, this is colleague Kai's incorrectly, that the government's moves have claimed that the judiciary is independent and that crime has no colour nor taste nor party membership and that this government has proved it best. And on the other hand, I'm actually a little bit concerned about your care of HDZ and its condition, and I'm actually almost thinking that you're getting closer and closer to our party. I'll calm you down here, the situation in our party is more than good, as the biggest party in Croatia deserves, so you don't have to worry about it. And maybe just in the end, I don't think the middle finger-lifting words fit into this assembly room. [[Stammers: Well, God forbid, not at all.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60829	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60830	Mr. Vice President, I will refer to Article 214, who demeans or insults the presidents or other MPs. So, reaction to Mr. Milinkovic's speech from... He said, probably no one noticed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He made fun of Mr. Cain's dialect, terrible. So.....the noise in the hall.... Wait a minute. There are people here, it's a dialect, so it's a Croatian dialect. The other day, I read in the paper that a journalist wrote that Mr. Bacic spoke some incomprehensible Croatian and I didn't like it. He speaks to the Chakavian dialect or Mudjanian. You're making fun of a man who comes from a place where you talk like that. Look, it's not a flaw, that's what they say. Take care of these things, it's very ugly. You certainly didn't notice that. Caine, right? Here you see, this is Croatia, Mr Milinkovic, Croatia that welcomed you with wide arms in Gola in Podravina, welcome [[Intruder: But all of this needs to endure stoicly because their time will pass.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60831	Well, I don't know, colleague Milanovic, what it would be, what it would be like to hurt the Rules of Procedure and to hurt a reputation, I don't know...... Is that a scary word... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's where it's said. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm aiming for a woman. (Laughter) [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Excuse me, I'm aiming for a woman. I'm not a woman. But I wouldn't consider it an insult. If someone calls for a dialectal excuse why would it be... Mr. Representative Ivo Škaričić, correction of the incorrect allegations. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60832	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Cain has led us to call upon the pope and to be baptized in the Vatican when they see it or when they hear it. That is not true, they are not baptized because on the contrary the Croatian state made a concord with the Holy Table and the Pope at the time of the national rulers. Therefore, the Pope does not come to reason with us, but he is a guest who is very welcome in Croatia, and it is unnecessary to mention how much the Vatican has contributed to Croatia's recognition and always to Croatia's support. And the Croatian people don't really need any concord in order to be in close contact with the Pope, but each... We're happy to meet you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60833	Thank you. Let us stop the debate for a moment just to welcome the members of the delegation of the Committee on Sustainable Development of the Hungarian Parliament, headed by the chairman of the Committee, Mr Javor Benardek. Guests from Hungary will hold during today and tomorrow and our colleagues will hold a joint meeting of parliamentary committees responsible for protecting the environment of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Hungary during today and tomorrow, continuing such a long tradition of mutual dialogues that has been going on since 1990. Hello. And Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovinović, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60834	Well, here's my colleague Caine, you should say, it needs to be fixed, because she says, mentions the war inside the HDZ, mentions Croatia's dissociation and so on, and then she sees a disappointed and confused story of something. But he forgets that while the HNS lost two MPs in this mandate, SDP two, his new "Kukuriku" coalition partner, both, that they all lost significantly more than HDZ. So, what are you offering? You're offering a new government, the new government story is going to be unspeakable. Who's the new government? Cup, Linic, Jakovci? So the people are really looking forward to the new government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60835	Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60836	And thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So also at this finding by colleague Cain that there is a war in HDZ. So this is all about mere desires, and the truth is something different. It is true that the SDP does not have the strength to enter the political ring with HDZ, and that makes arguments and real programmes. You tried before summer, first of all, on the wings of the union. You waited for them to cause unrest, riots and Greek syndrome to come to power. Now you expected that the return of Sanader to the Parliament would also destabilize our majority and that the government would fall, so that the government would be handed over to you on a tray. You'll have to put up with a lot more initiatives and fight a lot more in the political ring. Caina who said there was a political war in HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60837	Am I seeing this well, Mr. Shime? It is. Then a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60838	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter I think Mr. Kovacevic made a precedent. He accused Croatian trade unions of causing Greek syndrome. I think it's very unserious to say here in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60839	And I'm not so sure he accused them, union. Seems to me there was an indictment against someone else. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60840	So, Your Honor, Article 209 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder Shakespeare: Article, article tell me always.]] What you said, I didn't say. I said the SDP expected to be on union wings, signings, etc. that it will reach the street, that it will reach Greece, etc. And that you would then use it to come to power On the wings, that's right. [[On the wings, on the wings, on the wings.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60841	Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club Mr. Andrija Hebrang's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60842	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Madam President, Prime Minister, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So here we are already discussing a little more than the entire morning. We often went beyond the subject of the basic document, so I will try to return to the document and express briefly the Croatian Democratic Community's position on a document called the launch of confidence by the Prime Minister, Mrs Jadranki Kosor. It's a document that's hard to disprove by logical sequence because it doesn't follow some logical sequence, but I'll try to systematicize it into three wholes that this document is trying to capture. First of all, I want to say that the document is not well-timed or what counterpart Zoran's teaming would say is not exactly what he's told. Yeah, you're more English than Croat, so I quote you. But why don't I think it's a good timing? Because one constructive opposition should nevertheless observe the moment when it puts the prime minister on the scale, so with her and the entire government. Doesn't, first of all, hurt everything that the Prime Minister and that government are doing. I think this moment is clearly mischosen, because the government is in full swing. A year and something after she took over the Prime Minister's helm has implemented a whole series of measures that we can divide into three basic parts. And this whole day's debate, and maybe it extends to more than the whole day that it looks like it can take away a lot of energy, so instead of discussing the three main directions that this government is going to, we're actually losing a lot of time and energy. Why do I think a teaming is a bad time or a bad time? Because the government led the prime minister to remove the main barriers to entry into the European Union, it continued negotiations that were blocked. Whether the European Union looks with sympathies at the possibility of overthrowing the government and the possibility of stopping absolutely all important state activities for six months because that is how long it takes for the new Government to take over the helm if there is a different composition. Three months of preparation and elections and at least 100 days of stalking. Is this the time for Croatia to stop for six months? I don't think our friends in Europe would be very happy to have these six months right now at a time when we have opened the door of the European Union and have really stepped into them. I don't think it's a good time and because economic recovery measures, global crises have also begun to produce results. As you know, gross domestic product is for the first time positive in this quarter, as you know, growing industrial production index, growing exports to European countries, European Union countries and America. Is now the time for us to stop the work and measure of this government and go to the elections? We at the Croatian Democratic Community club think it isn't. Finally, is it time to interrupt the government right now that it has wide opened the door to all anti-corruption measures, all the measures that suppress crime, which pervade our society unfortunately from the top to the bottom. We also think it isn't, because that one stable government that will bring to an end these frameworks that she has set in Mrs Kosor's sentence, there is no untouchable. Let the government open up all the drawers, which contain papers, but let it open closets, it will fall out of the closet of a lot of things, not just one, but other political options, and this government has no untouchables. Is it time to stop her now? What's typical of this document that's ahead of us, it's directed personally at the Prime Minister. There's a mention of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor in 20 places everywhere. That's logical, because the one who wants to break one solid chain, he still has to choose the strongest link, so think when I break the strongest link, the chain will break, and here's my choice of moot and no pain. But they didn't get off on the right foot. They did not start well, but with the announcement of Mr Milanovic, the government of Jadranka Kosor baffled Croatia. This is not a good political start, because it refers not only to Mrs Kosor, but to the entire government, because it turns out that they have embellished Croatia with her head. And I will immediately defend my party persistently, and I support my party and when it does not support me, because I do not think Croatia has a better choice. So Mrs. Kosor did not embarrass Croatia, and this shows international recognitions that she has received in recent months alone. So let me remind you of the indignity Mrs. Kosor has given us. She received a award for the leader of the decade served short of an international league of humanists. Good ruse for Croatia. She was stamped in Mostar, the evening seal for the regional leader. Good ruse for Croatia. She received an annual Media Service award, a network that certainly does not tend to us on the right hand, yet they gave Mrs. Jadranka Kosor an annual award. She received a plaque for her personality in 2009 in the region from the Tuzla list, which is not exactly a debauchery of Croatia's reputation. She won in Vienna, and in the European Union, the recognition of the leader she is giving you a forum of investment, she got it in April of this year in Vienna. And don't let me count on it. So I think it's wrong to go along with her embezzling the country if she's managed to get such beautiful international recognitions. And that's actually where our opposition's problem lies, and maybe all of us. The more recognitions we get abroad than in our own country. Which, in foreign newspapers, we can read more objectively than we can read with us. I recently spoke to an ambassador, and here today my colleagues confirm with others, who wonder how Croatian media spread blackness, pessimism, do not give objective news. That is the problem of the Croatian state. And that's why I'm going to try that part of this document that SDP sent with partners to answer only with arguments. For me when it comes to the state, it's an argument. Of course, the heart, but when we discuss the survival of the government, the government's trust, or prime minister, then we should put a little sense in front of the heart. So I'm going to say that this government stands with what the red media has turned into ink, and what international institutions say about it, international statistics offices, as objective indicators say. I would say in the first row that what we hear from Croatian national television, from the mouth of Mr Sprejc, which is that Croatia before bankruptcy, is a common lie which is a means to which it manipulates these media, but unfortunately it is called then and many other agencies, and then the lie becomes a means of communication in Croatia. Where the truth is about the economic situation in Croatia. It is true that in the past year and some of its mandate, this government has been able to repair what the global economic crisis has been plowing in these areas. I'll say the gross domestic product first. The gross domestic product was higher than European by the first quarter of 2009 in Croatia, so it grew at a higher rate than the European one. The European has fallen, the Croatian has fallen less. We got into a crisis later. At that stage, no one asked for a vote of confidence to the government, because we had a rise, we had a gross domestic product in indices better than European. When the crisis hit us, which was in the first quarter of 2009, we found ourselves at a zero rate of growth of gross domestic product like Europe. Since we later entered that zero rate, it is logical that we will recover later, and as you can see, Europe has just now reached its zero, and we are today with the plus first positive growth of GDP also on the verge of reaching it in a month or two. And that's all the truth about today's situation. Yeah, negative access to GDP was up to a few days ago. Why? Because we got into a crisis later. These documents, and these documents can also be found in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and in the Croatian Statistical Institute, and if you want the most objective they can be found in EUROSTAT, on any website you can find it. Why we went into a crisis later, economists split up because of the structure of the economy, because of the dominant services compared to production, but everyone agrees that that's why we're going out later. And now, at that moment, we hunt down the government that we are weaker with indices than the Czech Republic is not correct, because in six months we will reach that European Union and that Czech Republic. Evidence in this is also a comparison of what has been done in Croatia in the past six years, the salary was at the end of 2003, the average salary of 4 thousand kuna, today 5 thousand 400, 22% higher. The average pension was 1,000, today 2 thousand 300, 30% more plus paid pensioners. The number of unemployed, we're all unhappy, and it's really bad, it's catastrophic. But listen to this. The unemployed were at the end of 2003, at the end of the SDP, the government of the unemployed was one million 360, or 18.9%. There are 14 of them today, some percent. ... What lapus? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The percentage of employees in 2003, I quote, even the Jutarnji List published it, I don't know how they got lost, in 2003 at the end of the unemployment rate was 18.9%. Here you go. It's a poll. And today the survey is about 14.6 to 15%. So smaller than then. And then we didn't say it was a disaster. We're also unhappy with this, but let's tell our citizens and citizens what's true. The unemployment rate hasn't been the worst in the last seven years. We're not good, but we're just as bad as the others in Europe, and that's the message I need to get out of this exposure. Let's go look at the foreign debt of the state, 47 billion. Have you ever read in our newspaper that Slovenia's external debt per capita is twice as large as the head of the Croatian population? You couldn't read that. And that's true. Have you ever read that the foreign debt of the state has doubled in just 3 years of SDP rule, from 11 to 22 billion euros, and that for the second double increase it took 7 years? Let's be objective and ask further questions. What kind of deficit is the state budget? Intermediate Shuker recently spoke of it. Today we have a budget deficit at the bottom of our crisis 2.5%. Do you know what the EU average is? 6.6%; -6.6. So let's tell our citizens we're bad, but we're not worse than that Europe. We're above her average average for budget deficits. Shall we say what the total public debt is? So, public debt of the state, i.e. Central debt plus guarantees, plus our HBOR – the central debt of the state has today reached 49% of the master criteria. And we can go to 60. Do you know how big it is in the EU? Over 76%. We are no worse than the middle of the EU. And I'm still not going to say that GDP per head has increased by 3% in the last 2 years, and today is 63%, larger than all the countries in the region and is larger than 7 EU countries. But if we don't move on with the numbers, we can talk politics a little bit. If we take this into account and say that this government has really started and that economy, then we're going to ask ourselves, and then why is everyone attacking her? Well, they're attacking her because they don't want to look these truths in the eye because they don't want to discuss numbers but political interests. I don't agree with that setting good for everyone, and best for the SDP. No, it should be good for everyone no matter which side you belong to, and we'll be able to do that with our decision today. And we know that HDZ in all the most difficult exams of 20 years of history had against itself SDP. Let's remember since the '90s election, let's remember '91. exiting this assembly when we decided to disunite with Yugoslavia, let's remember first of all the Agreement with Slovenia, let's remember trying to introduce a referendum when we entered NATO. And this is an attempt to slow us down to join the EU. It's simply because he wants to show this HDZ isn't capable of it. We are also able to avoid all the balvanas on the way for a Croatian improvement, so we will remove this document which is the only remaining obstacle to the good future of Croatia. And that's why the HDZ Club will vote against this document, for our prime minister, because she managed to send away a much bigger balvana than this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60843	Thank you. We have a series of corrections, a colleague of Milanovic and then, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60844	It is not an exact claim that this is not a good time to discuss the government's trust. This is the last moment because the government has lost confidence, not here in Parliament's parliamentary majority coalition partners, it still has that trust, but it has lost public trust. And how he won't lose the public's trust when that government here in the Parliament defends the man who publicly told the public that he had deceived the public. He said, for example, admitted, Sanader lies when he says he left because of Slovenia, but that lie was not invented by Sanader, that lie I invented by Andrew Hebrang defending him here in the Parliament, explaining before the Parliament, in front of the Croatian public the reasons for that departure. Why isn't this government defender credible yet? Because he read here the same speech he gave in 2008 when he defended Sanader when we asked for his resignation. Hebrang then said: "We deny first and foremost because of the dynamics, we disprove the right to the dynamics in which this request takes place to change the government because the current government shift would cause months of inaction, etc. It would happen that while we're changing drivers, the chief driver of Prime Minister Sanader's State Administration to get the fast train of Europe out of our way."
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60845	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60846	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Article 209(2), I quote 17 times today. In that, Mr. Stazic was correcting something I didn't say. He's lying that I'm lying about Sanader lying. In a phonogram that I have here so I'll give it to him later, I'll give it to him, I said to this speaker, "I didn't talk to Sanader why he was leaving, he wouldn't tell me. I guess he's leaving because he came across a barrier. I think that's why he's leaving, and I read he's leaving because he's leaving." And I've been thinking since the '90s. As many years as you didn't like it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60847	Mr. Representative Jovanovic, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60848	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting Mr. Prosecution's incorrect allegations. Hebranga, who said that the SDP's proposal to not trust the Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor, is not well-timed because I quote: "The economic recovery programme launched by Jadranka Kosor is in a swing that proves economic parameters." I am correcting this incorrect assumption because the economic recovery programme cannot be stopped because it has not even started. The government of Jadranka Kosor has implemented out of its ambitious reforms only those that contribute to the government and do not take votes from voters. It is our obligation here today to say loudly to the Croatian public that in this year, we have the term of office of Prime Minister Kosor 100 thousand newly unemployed, that 300 thousand unemployed, that 85 thousand workers work and do not receive wages, that the average salary of 80% of workers has an average salary that does not meet the needs of a 4-member family and that 90% of pensions do not meet the needs of a retirement family. Therefore, this is the last moment, a timely moment because within the party chaos in HDZ they became the weight of the Croatian government that drags Croatia to the bottom.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60849	Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60850	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of a fellow gentleman who says the elections would stop this government, but also reform. The first part of the sentence is absolutely correct. The elections would stop the government, but it would not reform and it is completely incorrect because reforms are not being implemented. It's not tax-deprived tax-price reform. It is not likely that pension reform will reduce or freeze pensions that happen for the first time in 20 years. It is not a health reform that connects several hospitals in Croatia. So that's completely incorrect. No reforms are being implemented and no reforms would stop. And another incorrect allegation is not obtained, it is not true that the credibility and competence of the Prime Minister to prove himself in Tuzla, Konjic, Stolic or Gorazda. It is proven in Obuzen, Krapina, Rijeka and Orahovica. In Croatia. That's where she proves herself. That's completely incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60851	Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60852	Thank you. And I, like my colleagues before me, will correct the incorrect assumption that a constructive opposition would choose a better time for this debate, because now the government is in the process of implementing economic recovery measures. That's incorrect. Because no measure defined as a measure of economic recovery produces results that would be visible to economic growth. That's why this is good information because we're ahead of budgeting. And in this year we have a budget deficit of over 15 billion kuna, at the same time every new loan is actually a credit covering budget expenditure, there is no investment, all the measures have been reduced just to bring together two or three agencies or some institutions without any analysis and financial effects. Therefore, the measures that were for recovery in the financial sense of the economy experienced total collapse, therefore neither was model A, B, and especially model C had produced any results.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60853	Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60854	Thank you. Hebrang's incorrect quote, he said, "the document is not well-timed". First of all, it's a one-off syntagma. There's no time for space. So it would have been good if you'd told this false claim that the document wasn't well timed, but that aside. You didn't translate. You don't know what you're saying. Among other things, you perform here acrobatics logically but very illogically. You're trying to protect yourself with Europe, you're attacking Croatian television, "what we hear from Croatian television we hear common lies". I have to tell you that you're a man who says, "I don't lie, I just don't tell the truth sometimes." You know how to answer that in a rather ugly sentence that I won't repeat, and what you said about Mr. Sanader's departure, everyone realized that you said I was lying and he liked my lie and it worked until we split up. Well, you can play the circus acrobat now... but that's what you said, Mr. Hebrang. And don't tell us lies when you publicly admit it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60855	Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60856	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll correct two incorrect allegations from Mr. Hebrang. The first is therefore that the recognitions received by Mrs Kosor reflect the good international position of the Republic of Croatia. To make it simple, you forgot to mention the honorary doctorate of the University of Philadelphia, which is not in the EU in America, the Appreciation of the Queen of Retired Croatia and the large poster of the Croatian Cultural Society Progress. This was given to her predecessor Ivo Sanader because of his good international position and we see how many prizes have confirmed her international position. You're ready to give it up now. And another incorrect allegation, that I don't want to discuss numbers, numbers that sound very good to me, and that sounds bad to me is 80,000 unemployed. But if there's anything in the numbers, then you'll be descriptive. It's your turn from here to the Tunnel Little Chapel one behind the other people and those last in the tunnel can paint it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60857	My colleague Bauk is not the Prime Minister or Mr Hebrang when they presented the recognitions received by the Prime Minister in this context, but as evidence of the Prime Minister's reputation in the international public. Mr. Hebrang illustrated it with certain prestigious awards from the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60858	Well, the former president had a confession and a reputation, so we can see you walking him.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60859	What difference does it make? Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja rectifier.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60860	So in his mission to distinguish truths, lies, untruths and deceptions, the esteemed colleague Hebrang said an incorrect allegation. He said the Government of the Republic of Croatia paid the pensioners back. That's not true. The word debt doesn't know pension legislation. The word debt was never ruled by anyone. Debt is never accounted or paid. Even if the word "deal" and "debt" were true, then there's only four wars left to pay. And don't repeat the words of your former Prime Minister who won the election in 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60861	On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60862	So, once again, I'm never going to get my hands on that subject, but now I'm going to ask that we don't mock regionalisms, chakras and Caiauan. Dr. Milinkovic was admitted to the Caucasian Goli as his own, and there you are the head of the municipality. Therefore, it is a Croatian treasure. I don't mock Mr. Bačić when he speaks Korčulan, and I will always stand in defense of saying it, because it is the most ancient Croatian dialect. I'm surprised none of you reacted to that. Secondly, Jesus God means it bothers you and that's normal behavior? Great, great company. But I want here just saying it's usually public for, but the truth works, solve some false dilemmas. That early elections, that the shift of government in Croatia, would stop Croatia's shift towards membership in the European Union, would make it clear to the citizens about the government that I am not prejudged. No, you wouldn't. What exactly do we have to finish here? We have a fight against corruption that's not being fought from the Ban Courts, right? These key laws, which are now being blocked by the law enforcement authorities, were passed in 2009 during your former president. It's such a legislative framework. Well, it's not like the government is persecuting, it's not that the government is writing indictments, it's not that the government... its own members and senior officials? I don't think so. So, at least that's how it should be independent of EU membership and it's not up to the executive authority, which those who are finally doing their job will stop their job from seeing the result of the election. As far as we're concerned, they can move even harder into their own business. We've got shipbuilding, it's a big problem, but it's something you should have solved a long time ago. And it's not fair that we're blackmailing all of Croatia now. In some ways, we hold a hostage that the HDZ and HDZ government has not done their job in these seven years and threatens to shut down or bankrupt some of the foundations of Croatian material culture. That's the problem you should have solved a long time ago. So let's not scare people, let's not say that the people's decision to slow anything down wouldn't slow down. It would not slow down as well as referendums would not slow down and would not question Croatian democracy. I have certain views of the referendum, and I don't think they should be manipulated, but when the referendum asks for 20% of the voters enrolled, then it's a terrible serious thing. The same goes for the NATO referendum, and I will mention it here, which some of the HDZ ranks today have several times thrown as, imagine, evidence that the SDP wanted to prevent Croatian entry into NATO. We wanted people's will to be heard, and in this we would be the first and most vocal advocates and proponents to enter NATO, because yes, it was done in the 1990s, too, failed. I worked on a Croatian mission in NATO as the first diplomat and a few years was the only one. So, no big resources were given to it materially. So then we worked 2000, 2001, 2002. I wrote the National Programme and the Framework personally with a group of co-workers, and I devoted a lot of work and emotional energy to it, and we did something, and we became a member of the Membership Action Plan. To claim that the SDP wanted to stop Croatia's membership in NATO, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60863	One correction. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60864	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is an incorrect assumption from counterpart Milanovic that I am mocking regionalism. Absolutely incorrect. I corrected Mr. Cain's quote that he invited me to, and then I thought and gave up, and he asked me to be original and always be in my own style, and that's what I was, spontaneously. But that confirms that our thesis that you are not in this House of Commons regularly so that you do not know the communication between me and Mr Cain who is always correct and extremely correct. Next, you mention that I was admitted to the Caucus area of Gola. Of course, I'm proud to be admitted, but I've been trying to justify it by my work and by my actions and by my work, and I've been doing it for good. I've learned both Caiauan and Hungarian, and Hungarian because part of my community speaks Hungarian, and I've learned to be in that regionalism, to live with this regionalism and to live with that people and to serve that people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60865	SDSS representative club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60866	Mr. Chairman, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Listening to the debate so far for a moment, I tried to be in the position of an average Croatian voter who may be able to watch us today, perhaps listen. And I may be laughing to conclude, but it seems to me that the average voter through his head is missing a cry that long before he was said or said, "My God, my God, why did you leave me?" There is no more dangerous way in fragile democracies, in democracies where parliamentaryism wants to disqualify itself from various sides and many corners of society when Parliament itself is trying to contribute to it. And I'm afraid that the way we've been having the debate so far and how we've put the topic in this debate is that we're not on the worst track to contribute to it ourselves, including the latest linguistic debates. But we're where we are. I'd like to say a few things on behalf of the SDSS club, so no longer on my own behalf and not on the basis of my impression. About the crucial moment, as far as it might seem, this is not a crucial moment for Croatia, we at the SDSS club think it is. As unfair as it may seem to us that this breaking moment did not come sooner and that there are many who are responsible for this fact but it does not dispute the fact that it is a breaking moment. A crucial moment simply in the fact that circumstances have arisen, including those political ones, and we know that there were no political periods at certain times, and we know why there were none, that it could be fought against corruption and that society could be relieved of corruption. Not with one cut, not with one move, not with two or three men, but with important moves that would then open space to make it a routine and become a job that would be done by duty and that, as is said here, it would become an integral part of the moral obligations to which one of the debaters referred. But there can't be any before this job is done and because it's a broken business. Breaking because of us, but at the same time broken by two important things, because of membership with the Union and because of the country's economic recovery. There are no memberships or new investments if we are not going to solve this and therefore this issue is crucial. For this reason, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS has no doubt as to whether this is a crucial moment, there are only doubts as to whether in a relatively short time and regarding the conclusion of negotiations with the Union, and also about opening up space, removing obstacles to investment without which we cannot make any recovery. We can't, colleagues and colleagues. We all know that from the smallest man to the government here we spend more than we have and not since yesterday, we spend more from Yugoslavia. And when a still irresponsible attitude towards state money and state resources is added, then we can only see the depth of the crisis, then we can only see that it cannot remain without the impact on moral values in society. It cannot be left without the impact on economic values in society. And it should start to change, but not as some would like, of course, that have enough wealth just now they need to create an economic framework so that they can have it even more, which is to take away those who can barely stand and what they have. We can't do that. The government couldn't do it tomorrow, neither can this one. All we can do is save where we won't do any more damage and that's where we need to save. We don't have industrial production. It is often said about how the real sector suffers. Unfortunately, the real sector is too weak. What's more, as someone recently said in a debate when we had a question of whether we'd have the workforce to do it because we devastated our workforce, because we've offended our work, because we haven't created any assumptions that we're saving people who can work. And instead of being our subject, and instead of doing it perfectly legitimately by the opposition, we unfortunately allow ourselves to deal with the personal issue of responsibility of the Prime Minister. It is a legitimate goal, but unfortunately too short, not far enough for what Croatia needs in my deep conviction. Don't even mind me saying it out loud here in this place, because I'm not giving anyone anything but simply saying it as one of the people responsible in this room. What do we got? We have trade and tourism. So, something where we and our economy depend on others. Have something change tomorrow on the tourist market or something change tomorrow in the parent companies of different companies or those of ours that are dependent on them... And tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of our workers who depend on it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Isn't that a structural and systemic problem that we need to change? Isn't that something that's been created for 20 years and isn't that something we have to discuss? Yes, because it will welcome tomorrow's government no matter who it is and no matter what time it's due. In that sense, I feel like there's another additional problem coming to this. Unfortunately, our political parties have been strong for the past 20 years. Our political parties were the strongest actors in social, economic and political life. Let's all colleagues and colleagues, regardless of which parties we talk to those in the ruling coalition or those in opposition. Are these parties strong today? Do they have this power, and isn't there really those who are stronger than us sitting here in the Parliament and us going out in front of voters tomorrow on behalf of our parties and defending this or that solution? They do. And the most active are just these weeks when a coalition of different interests wants to be caught in a network of its own interests, legitimate ones, but they want to capture political parties and want to master another political scene. Whoever wants to make a contribution to them, make a contribution to them. I, on behalf of my own club, am not going to do this. I have no obligation, and I don't think that's good for Croatia. It is our obligation to preserve the minimum independence of both this Parliament and the political parties, not to allow any other media space to bring us in and catch us in its wind and its queen. As far as the word hostage here is concerned, it's mentioned on several occasions today. We all know the logic of party life, and we all know how it relates to the party. And we know that there are times in which parties can be held hostage by individual relationships. The bigger the party the bigger the problem, the more powerful the party the bigger the problem too. However, I think that at the moment when it comes to the Croatian political scene is not the biggest problem. If it seemed a few weeks ago that he might be a big problem he didn't. Our much bigger problem is the fact of weak policies on the one hand and strong coalitions and interests that are impartial, supra-party, past party. Croatia, if anything doesn't change, will be the hostage of it, and will not be the hostage of Sanader, nor of relations in HDZ, nor of anyone in the SDP, but will be the hostage of this. I'm not just saying that as a member of a club in the Parliament. I say that as one of the citizens, one of the actors on the political scene because I feel it's happening. And it repeats the matrix we saw on several occasions. One of the difficult conditions that we have in society, especially one of the difficult economic conditions that we have in society that we cannot hide, for which we in the ruling coalition have not yet found an adequate formula to deal with. That doesn't have to be hidden either. And is this the reason to add a political crisis to the economic crisis in which we will lose control of the processes completely? I don't think so. And that's the reason for this kind of speech here and outside of this House of Representatives Club of the SDSS. There are no others. When some say what you're gonna get? Let go of what you get. It's a thing that has to be solved by this or that reason, but strong enough and important enough. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues of the Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party will continue to support the coalition's policy led by this understanding, which I have presented here, aware that the delay in finding a solution to the country's economic recovery, for stopping the country's economic collapse is very risky for us both in a coalition and very risky for the future government and very risky for the country as a whole. But what's more risky than that could be is that at this point we're taking measures that we wouldn't have complete control of, not only of the economic, but also of the political processes. For this reason, the SDSS Club believes that it is legitimate to find a way to fight for voters' votes, including requests for trust with the government or the Prime Minister, but on the other hand, we believe that political rationality and political justification for this moment are not on the side of the applicant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60867	Thank you. A few corrections. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60868	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the inaccuracy of my colleague, Pupovac, who said that making a decision on the mistrust of Jadranka Kosor today will not make a good solution to economic and other social problems, which currently burden Croatia, and that he would then deny himself by saying that at this moment this coalition does not have and does not offer and knows the formula for resolving... That's exactly what it shows that... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] the departure of this government. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] After all, yesterday we have far-reaching good features, because yesterday in a survey 67% of young people, 18 to 30 years of age, said they wanted early elections, 57% of young people would leave Croatia right now because of the situation we are in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60869	Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60870	Thank you very much. I would correct Mr. Popovec's incorrect claim that he said to imagine in this economic crisis that we still have a political crisis. Well, according to that logic, the worse the situation in the country, it's supposed to be the next election. That's what Mr. Pupovci says by that logic. Imagine Mr. Pupovac, after another year of what you will support this government,... What's he gonna do then? [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] and how difficult it will be for the new government to get Croatia out of the crisis... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] anyone who supports this policy. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60871	And representative Mršić, Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60872	I want to correct Mr. Pupovac's incorrect claim that this economic crisis should not be added to the political crisis, while thinking that the political crisis is the election. So it is true that the elections are possible to get out of the crisis, and the elections are certainly not and cannot be a political crisis. They're just the way out of this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60873	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60874	Comrade Pupovac, you're saying we're not going to take measures that can lead to us losing control of the political movements in this country. The situation is just the opposite. Failure to take action, not accepting reality, delaying elections can lead to the country's situation getting out of control, that citizens lose their patience and that when they see that political elites are not ready to take responsibility, that political elites support the government, which generates this crisis and cannot solve it, they try to find a solution alone in the streets and in the markets. It's the responsibility of those.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60875	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60876	Who must be aware.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60877	Thank you very much, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60878	Which means their decision or their decision-making.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60879	At 13,48, it was time for the debate, a ten-minute hearing to be reported. 78 MPs and representatives have applied for the debate, along with 4.5 other clubs. I ask the Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Ivan Jarnjak, to take the chair of the session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60880	It is up to the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60881	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government. We watch every day our country is falling deeper and deeper, the cano estate of those children that are under... I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[You don't understand.]] He puts something in his pocket, every single thing he owns, at last the kids won't be left with anything. [[You don't understand.]] 167 years ago, Ivan Kukuljevic Sakcinski, a Croatian historian, writer and politician in his famous speech at the Croatian Parliament, when it was first spoken in Croatian. If Ivan Kukuljevic Sakcinski had spoken in the Croatian Parliament on 2 May 1843 what the rulings liked then, and the words they wanted to listen to then, today in the Croatian Parliament would probably still be spoken in foreign language rather than in Croatian. Today we have before us a debate on a request for a vote of no confidence to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not a session of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, in which only praises can be held to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Today's request is legitimate, justified, even though it is upfront to the proposings themselves, and it is clear to us that it is still temporarily condemned to failure. But this is no reason not to talk about why this ruling set should be in the interest of Croatia, Croatian citizens, and even in its own interest to leave power as soon as possible. The position of the HDSSB Representatives Club is simple and unequivocal, for the Republic of Croatia it would be best if today's still the ruling set at the head of the HDZ had not been able to do to Croatia what it has done in the last 7 years. The reason for leaving this government is more than the story from the book collection a thousand and one night. Four is enough for us at the HDSSB. The values of the Homeland War have been marred, Croatia has been brought to debt slavery and the edge of economic breakdown, an unscrupulous robbery of its own people and state has been carried out, and the maternal relationship with Slavonia and Baranja, once the richest end of the Republic of Croatia, has made it the same synonym of poverty and underdevelopment. First reason, national reasons. This ruling furniture came to power by swearing to the sanctity of the Croatian victim woven into the foundations of Croatian independence and independence. They presented themselves as uncompromising fighters to preserve the dignity of the Homeland War. They led the justified protests of Croatian defenders from the beginning of this century. They gave fire talks on both Split's waterfront and in the square of Ban Jelačić, and throughout our fairs. They then led Croatia to the brink of violent destruction of democratically elected authorities, and then they came to power. And what happened to all the burning speeches, the promises of defending the dignity of the Homeland War? We got a disgraceful bowing to the floor, licking heels and crawling in front of Carla del Ponte. And others who cruised Croatia with threats, blackmail and humiliation such as no dignified state government in the world would suffer for a second. And instead of the fact that our government at the head of the HDZ was banging its fist at the table and saying, "Enough! We weren't kneeling in front of large Serbian grenades, tanks and mines.", the nation was presented with the famous HDZ new Syntagma of the Homeland War defence – locate, identify, arrest and transfer. Generals Gotovina, Markac and Cermak were located, identified, arrested and transferred to The Hague. Mirko Norac is already closed by the Croatian Court's decision, and Branimir Glavas was eventually politically ruled after his ruthless political persecution was supported by an unspeakable hickey of anti-Croatian media and was ultimately ruled politically in a shameful politically motivated and mounted judicial process under strict supervision and the conductor's baton of Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60882	Dear Representative Buric,
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60883	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60884	According to our Rules of Procedure, there is a agenda, and according to that agenda there is a topic. You have to stick to the subject as wide as I can to try and tolerate it. You have to stick to it and stick to it or you'll have some sanctions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60885	I'm sticking to the subject. This is the first reason Mr. Chairman, this is the first reason why we think the government should leave. The values of the Homeland War have been trampled. The cities of the heroes of the Homeland War were becoming cities with a war crime label. Gospić, Split, Karlovac and Osijek have already received these posters, now preparations are under way to hand this recognition to the town of Sibenik, and Sisak and Vukovar are being announced as next. The result of both Sanader's work and Jadranka Kosor's government are Croatian generals in prisons, Croatian defenders humiliated and embarrassed in front of their own children, and the villains who shot and killed Croatian patriots were abolized, some today even enjoying parliamentary pensions. It is unfortunately also on its own shame Croatia today. Another reason, economics. We remember the guarantee card, they guaranteed us a tax reduction, and we got a bigger VAT and a "harrest". We were assured of economic growth, and today only Kyrgyzstan is worse than we are. They guaranteed employment growth, and we have 300 thousand unemployed and more than 80,000 working people, and they don't get paid. They guaranteed the growth of standards, and 800,000 citizens today are poor, our soup kitchens are full, and in front of the garbage cans, there's an increasing number of hungry people looking for food. They promised to launch Croatia, and they brought us into debt slavery and on the verge of failure and bankruptcy. They said we'd move on, and they brought us into the dark present and the uncertain future. I'll quote three reasons, the Washington Times announced after the escape of Ivo Sanader: "Some countries have a mafia, and the Croatian mafia has a state." This is a quote from the Washington Times. Ivo Sanader, for his 7 years of HDZ management, has made the country's former state-run party an organization modeling Don Vito Corleone from the famous film "KUM." Any such organisation shall, before or after such an organisation, be subject to ruthless reckonings or to the division of the spoils or when they are exposed in a misdemeanour. Then comes the transfer of responsibility to each other all in order to avoid legal sanctions. The criminal activity of a long-standing "godfather" who has made the members of his organization unspeakable listeners and executioners of his duties evident today not only to everyone in Croatia but also beyond the borders of the Homeland. Today's government of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor is the continuity of the former Sanader government. The fugitive prime minister, fleeing the country's throne, left his then most loyal and trusted co-worker. But continuity means not only the legacy of the throne, the crown, and the scepter but also the burden of responsibility for the unprecedented robbery of its own people in which it is irrelevant how active it is, and how passively it has witnessed it itself, we do not know whether or not it was involved. The people's wisdom says, "It is not only a thief who steals but also one who holds the ladder."but there's another one "who looks at a thief through his fingers and he's a thief himself." Until yesterday, curtain holders are trying to introduce themselves to the stegonists of fighting organised crime and corruption. This is even for Croatian occasions too. Today, here in the Croatian Parliament, we are witnessing that HDZ representatives and their recent leader are trembling from one another. Everyone knows too much about each other that the other could sleep peacefully. And Sanader about them and them about him. This is why many today need not only bodyguards, an increasing number of those in need and the help of psychiatrists because of fear of indoor space. And we don't just watch each other's trembling, we witness hypocrisy. He's running around the council bathrooms to avoid a random encounter, and until yesterday, dances were around the idols of Eve Sanader. Croatia not only needs elections for new elections
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60886	Your Honor,
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60887	Croatia needs first of all purification,
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60888	Dear Representative Buric,
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60889	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60890	Please, we agreed here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60891	I stopped my 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60892	We agreed here today that we wouldn't label, that we wouldn't insult, that we wouldn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60893	I didn't hurt anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60894	Please be nice, I'll assess it here. It is according to the criteria prescribed by our Rules of Procedure. And I ask you to stick to the Rules of Procedure, to speak as spoken in this House, because otherwise I will be obliged to warn you in a different way. Please continue, but as you wish.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60895	Thank you. I speak here in a language that the people of the region where I come from want to hear and want to understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60896	You can't say what someone wants to hear. You can't say what our regulation says.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60897	Let me go, Mr. Chairman. Let me continue. May I continue?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60898	Here you go, I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60899	That's right, then don't bother me. Croatia needs, above all, a purification from criminals who have retreated and hid in numerous state-owned companies and state bodies. But there is also an elimination from the political life of faceless obedient characters so-called. party personnel who have nothing of their own, let alone how to lead the state to the benefit of its citizens. Croatia was robbed today. And she wasn't robbed by some foreign barbarians. She was robbed by criminals and thieves from the top of our government, who used the state register as a self-serving service, putting together common money for the smaller part of the party and, in part, in private pockets. So far in open affairs, he's mentioned a number of stolen billions and a half of kunas. If it is considered that only 10% of crime is detected, then we come to the knowledge of a terrible robbery of as many as 15 billion kunas. That's terrible. And the 4th regional reasons for leaving this government from power, Slavonia and Baranja was once the richest and most developed area, today because of this government, its poorest and least developed part of Croatia, Slavonia and Baranja is a lot of MPs and ministers of the weekend of Slavons, who are watching their own well-paid chair and not seeing, listening and not hearing, opening their mouths and not talking, thinking and not concluding. This power was seen by Slavonia as a loathsome stepdaughter. Slavonia and Baranja view this authority as a poor stepmother. How much love we got and we fight back. And finally. The time of departure from the Ban Courts is getting closer and closer in the ears of the echoes those folk songs, "Our paths are falling apart." Some will go straight to Remetinec after coming down from power. Those who do not end up there immediately will go on a pilgrimage to repenting their sins, and those who rarely least happily return immediately to their homes, their neighbors, their fellow citizens, and they will have the most difficult and demanding task, they will need to look into their eyes. The fate of this government clearly describes the saying of the future we face with the help of our past. What their past was, that's their future. The time has come to fulfill the prophetic words of today’s prime minister whom Ivo and I have come. And in the spirit of these words, the most popular in the people is the occasion of the daily work of Prime Minister and Minister Shuker. When they recently visited a kindergarten after what they saw, the prime minister ordered the finance minister to immediately pay 5,000 kuna for the children's kindergarten and the same was done. They went to a nearby prison the next day. At the end of the visit, Minister Shuker was ordered by the prime minister to pay 500 thousand kuna to arrange the space. The surprised minister asked, so why here five grand yesterday? The prime minister answered with a serious voice, so you don't think we'll end up in kindergarten after the election. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60900	I think after this, let the public judge the matter. I don't have anything else to say. We have corrections to the incorrect allegations, the first respected representative, Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60901	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I'm going to correct one of the incorrect allegations in a series of inaccuracies that have been made, which is that this government has compromised the integrity of the Homeland War and that the Homeland War is worthless to it. That I absolutely incorrectly. Such qualifications come to you when your party is led by a first-class captain who, along with you, coalitions with the SDP, then you threaten the Homeland War, you're a disgrace to the Homeland War, and you're the one who's actually endangering the entire rise of the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60902	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, honourable representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60903	Article 209 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. And I can only tell you Mr. Djakic and you're one of those.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60904	Excuse me for correcting? Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60905	There's still gonna be talk about it. Djakova's defender... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60906	Thank you very much. Your Honor, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. With the same rhetoric because of this performance in the Croatian Parliament, I give you a warning. And I ask you to behave properly in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60907	I accept your warning and remain in my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60908	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is a respected representative of Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60909	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Article 209 has been injured. Namely, my colleague Buric performed as if he were going to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure with attacks on my personality, on my behalf and on my part in the Homeland War. Together as his captain did writing a criminal report... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60910	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60911	I honestly and honestly defended Croatia's homeland, shed blood for it, unlike those in the JNA.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60912	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60913	We defended Croatia when the war started, and you defended... /The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60914	Dear Representative Buric, don't shout from the bench. Please don't make me take any other sanctions, if it pleases you, it'll be like that. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60915	I would ask you not to apply the Rules of Procedure selectively. In two steps Mr. Djakic had, there was an insult.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60916	What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60917	209. Are you listening to me?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60918	No, it's not 209. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60919	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60920	In what?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60921	This one with two swings warns him if he insults the MPs and the ones who aren't here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60922	Thank you very much. Sit down. Let's move on with the debate. It is the turn of the HNS club, the distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60923	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Prime Minister with members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. That some time ago someone told us that here with little nostalgia we would remember a time when Minister Schuker was always performing for this pay phone and saying mostly two things. One doesn't have a crisis, the state pays for wages and pensions. And others, it's all the coalition government's fault from 2000. So if someone had told us a while ago that we'd be able to remember with a little bit of nostalgia they'd think he was completely crazy. Unfortunately, however, we welcomed that time because then, if anything else, at least formally, the debate on the economic situation and the standard of citizens was on the agenda. about how people live and how we will eventually try to get out of the crisis. Today, unfortunately, no one expects this government to put such a topic on the agenda and to discuss such topics in the Parliament at all, to discuss a possible strategy for getting out of the economic crisis. We even heard the ruling coalition say that this ruling coalition has no response to the economic crisis. We also believe that it is true that there is no answer to the economic crisis. And one of the reasons and then and for the reason why this moment was chosen is that the topic of economic crisis may be the strategy of coming out today in Croatia and then in the Parliament, whether this government still has a parliamentary majority. And we agree with what's been said here that one week seems to be gone, and then another week seems to have, it's also said from the ruling coalition. It's a real and serious problem. This is not some problem that is not happening in parliaments, it is happening and we believe that such a situation is not good for Croatia. We even respect the fact of this problem in the current government's pregnant or leading party and the current coalition. However, we at the HNS and HSU club believe that citizens of this country cannot be hostages to the situation. I'm going to use the hostage word because I think it's really justified in this case, this country can't deal with all the time with how many more MPs make up the parliamentary majority compared to what we had yesterday. This should be handled by HDZ quite legitimately, but the whole country cannot depend on it. As a country, we stand before two global assignments. One is leaving the economic crisis and creating conditions for progress and another is Croatia's entry into the European Union. For both of these goals, in order to do anything, to concentrate on achieving these two important goals is an important dose of stability and security in society. It's an important dose of feeling that the government is able to do its job, and that's her job. Her job isn't to deal with relationships in the biggest party, her job is to deal with these two goals. We have proposed precisely because we believe it is important to create this sense of stability and predictability of what is waiting for us, we have proposed that the government accept the ruling coalition to accept some timetable in which the negotiations would end and then call the elections afterwards. I will not now enter into the details necessary to complete the negotiations, but three major tasks are needed, one or three more tasks, according to my assessment, to be completed in order to complete the negotiations. They're not small, but they're largely technical. This proposal, let's get this over with and go to elections so that we can deal with the country's exit from the crisis and that we can deal with taking advantage of the opportunities offered to Croatia by entering the European Union, and at this point we are not taking advantage of them. For illustration alone, in environmental protection and in the area of transport, we have used 1% of the resources available to us so far. That proposal was rejected. We feel it is not good that the proposal has been rejected because this continues the agony of instability and the unpredictability of situations in which no one knows whether next week, not because of the opposition, the opposition can never bring down the government because by definition it is in the minority, because it is the opposition, but whether the ruling majority will bring down that government. We don't think that steps have been taken to fight corruption. We believe that this government has since Mrs. Kosor came to her lead, and that is mostly the only thing that has changed in it since the departure of former President Sanader, has begun the fight against corruption. It's good, it's important, it needs to continue and it will continue. On this occasion, I must also thank our colleague Markovanovic, who also made efforts to fight corruption, so he sent the state's attorney's office a report and asked for an opinion on the famous conclusion of the investigative committee here in the Assembly based on which he has repeatedly repeated both the charges and the insinuations at the expense of HNS President Mr Cacic. So he cleared up that case and he got the answer and you all have the answer in front of you. And in response to Deputy State Attorney Marincel's reply, I don't quote everything, just the following: there was no reason to suspect the committing of criminal acts, despite the fact that the criminal treatment of former Minister Cacic was committed and there was no reason for further action. In these conditions in which a good part of the people sitting in prison, in front of prison, in prison or in court proceedings are open against them, in this fight against corruption are either former members of this government or senior state officials, all of them from HDZ. The fight against corruption is good, we're supporting it and we're looking for it and we're trying to clear it up. But at a time when in this fight against corruption, everyone who has become a suspect or who is under suspicion from this government and from the party leading that HDZ government is saying something about the legitimacy of that government and talking about the legitimacy of that party to lead this government. So, the idea that anyone where no case was ever found could stand by the charges brought against former members of this government or HDZ where none of them were found to speak for anyone else and something about the legitimacy of the government. Don't say anything about the importance of fighting corruption. She's important and inevitable. And if anything that's been discovered so far or where there's a reasonable suspicion that the charges have been filed shows that, of course, it's good, important and inevitable. We believe that under such conditions, and we felt that in such conditions this debate would give us the opportunity to either go together to the voters for a new legitimacy or to consider the peaceful country a useful way to get to the next elections. Elections are a normal way of changing power in a situation where we are on one side with an uncertain government majority that changes from week to week and will change from week to week. And on the other hand, with a whole series of lawsuits against members of the government and the pregnant party, so key state officials, we believe that some cannot be ignored, that some moves must be withdrawn. The HNS and HSU club will vote for this initiative to vote non-trust and to go to all of us for legitimacy, for the new, fresh legitimacy of citizens and citizens of this country. But I repeat, the opposition is not the one, and it cannot by definition be the one who can question the existence of this government, nor can it bring down this government. The government can only be torn down by the ruling majority. And for their decision, the ruling majority and members of the ruling majority bear responsibility, will bear responsibility and will account for the citizens. It's the purpose of a debate like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60924	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. The first is Honorable Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60925	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting Mrs Pusic's incorrect quote, which she said, quoting that "all the defendants or suspects are from the ranks of this government or party." So I will remind you, Mrs Pusic, that in your party, your party's chief secretary has the inadequacy in the first degree given the sentence of imprisonment for one year and that your party's head, or your branch from Rijeka, is legally convicted of theft. So much for an exact quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60926	Thank you. And another incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60927	Here's to begin by thanking my colleague Pusic who gave me the great honor of doing it. But it wasn't me. Here is the honor belonging to the Croatian Parliament who accepted the report and sent it to the State's Attorney's Office which apparently did not establish a link between the ministry and Cacic's firm. But it doesn't say anywhere that the companies, the Coning groups, so Con Gamma, Con Delta and similar property of Cacic, are Coning Alpha companies. And by chance, he owns a coning alfa company right now, Radimir Cacic. So he didn't even sign any contracts. Very cleverly, contracts were signed in exchange for Alenka Košasa Chichin-Shain and so on. So, there's no crime as far as Caucica's concerned, if she doesn't scratch a little deeper, and I think it'd be good to take some spider drawers out there, too. And I think a lot of, a lot of spiders are still hidden in there.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60928	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60929	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The famous 209 article where fellow Markovanovic did not correct any of what I said. A colleague Markovanovic has a black on white answer to his... the question that stands on everyone's bench and can read it to him, because his question is being answered by the State's Attorney's Office that there is absolutely no basis or reasonable doubt after criminal processing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And otherwise, what you said has nothing to do with what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60930	Let's move on with the debate. And it is up to the club of independent representatives, the distinguished representative Đurđa Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60931	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr. and Mrs. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament. I'll probably discuss on behalf of our club you completely predictable and expected way. There won't be any surprises in my debate, because after my colleague, Chehok and I, for seven years, supported this government or government in a similar configuration, and I sat in that government yesterday, it would have been extremely hypocritical to turn our backs on her today when something didn't work out, to anchor her, and to pretend we never sat there. However, when it comes to the demands of the Social Democrats and the coalition in the opposition, he is fully legitimate and expected because it is clear that the opposition is always trying to bring down power or at least point to citizens' shortcomings. How politically wise it is today will certainly be for those who will see or read this debate in the press. I'm saying that because it was clear at the very announcement that there wouldn't be enough hands for this shift. What is unusual, at least to us and we haven't been able to figure it out since we already know that there aren't enough hands to mistrust this government or at least to expect it to be gone that things are now standing this point by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament say I can't get back in line for six months. If so, this government has been given six months of peace since the opposition. So what our colleague Milanovic throws out of the bench means that we can only take down those who are sitting in the Parliament, so the government can work peacefully because it's hard for one of us to want to start the election before Christmas. What is going to happen today in the Croatian Parliament is also fully expected, these are the crackdowns of the political elites in which we participate almost everyone, and I am afraid that after that survey we recently had, the citizens who have seen and read, who accused us of doing nothing concrete but themselves, will unfortunately get another support today and that many will experience today as our competition in minutes in Dnevnik. We all agree, however, that the reforms that are being implemented are slow or slower than we would like, that recovery from the economic crisis is also slow, but we have gone into crisis and later on, that the unemployment rate is high, that the standard is low and these are the obligations of all of us. However, I remind myself as someone who has been sitting in those benches recently, I know well that there is a will to fight corruption, that much has been arranged in the international affirmation of Croatia, and that we have been trying to take care of the weakest. So we're not going to lift the anchor today, but let's make a proposal that I don't believe will be accepted, but be found in the ears. What we could all agree on, which is that Croatia, or agree that Croatia has very few persons with strong political authority. These are also the rule of the strongest political parties. It is clear that there is the President of the Republic, but it is also clear that it is also the president of the largest party and the ruling HDZ party and prime minister, and it is also clear that it is also the president of the Social Democrats as the main opposition party. It might be good for what will wait for us this year when the negotiations are over, if you really sat down, but in four eyes, not as it was called, as discussed about the Constitution, as the diaspora was discussed, that it really wasn't some media presentation, but to agree on about five key points. It would certainly be easy for you to agree on the European Union, as both parties and almost all political parties are Europeanally committed. I think you could also agree on the fight against corruption, the fight for the standard of structural reforms coming out of the crisis, but of course after today's debate and the election. It has been shown that you have already had such a successful conversation, when, of course, it was not awake about the camera, when it came to the adoption of the Constitution, which is also important, or when it was debated about the diaspora. Then it would be quite certain in 2011, the year when we finally need to join the European family, that would be a year less frustrating for all citizens, we would welcome a more peaceful election, and then the citizens without such discussions as we are doing today might be a little more peaceful to choose a winner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60932	Thank you. It is the turn of the HSS Club, the distinguished representative Josip Friscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60933	Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, Prime Minister, members and members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Discussing, that is, a part of the debate is also a matter of whether it is good and whether it is due for today’s session. We consider at the HSS Club if this is the right, and legitimately it is the right to reach it, then it is good to use this session and this debate to really analyse what objectives were set, which was done, which was realised, which are still problems and challenges, and whether there are forces both prime minister and government to address these challenges, seek, offer and find solutions and remove obstacles to the realisation of those objectives that are set out here during its election in the corrected coalition promotion in the Croatian Parliament. Many in the debate go back years and decades. I will also return, but not for decades, but I will return to the beginning of last summer, at a time when Mrs Jadranka Kosor was elected president of the Croatian government and the talks as president of the coalition partner, who is participating in the government and who has given her support. Based on these agreements, based on what we have entered into the joint programme, we are analysing and concluding what has been done, in which way, by which results, and by doing so we are also carrying out our conclusions on the functioning and the Prime Minister, on the Government, on the coalition, but also on how we respond to all those challenges that have been faced with us. What were we talking about? We analyzed the situation and concluded that when it came to the two dominant goals set by the coalition government, one was NATO where the whole debate and accession were completed and the second question was the continuing negotiations. We have found out, and these were the facts, that the talks are in a blockade, that in a blockade or that the largest number of these chapters are blocked by our neighbours, and that the Prime Minister and the Government have agreed to go into action to act as deblockers, to continue negotiations, to close chapters, and to realise the goal set by the Government. And by analysing this agreement today, we want to publicly say that we are satisfied. We are pleased that the issue with our neighbours has been resolved as to how we will finally resolve the borders, which was discussed not only in pre-election campaigns, but in almost every meeting, depending on who on which side and how he used this topic. The second question we discussed, discussed and agreed on was the matter of the budget. It was clear to us at that point that the budget when it came to his expenditures without wanting to say today that something was justified or unwarranted we could say everything was justified, but there was a question which were the possibilities for the realization of what was agreed and established. And we agreed that regardless, this is always unpopular, but we should have the determination and courage to boldly propose budget rebalancing, spending reduction, savings in all resolutions, and most importantly, when it comes to capital projects, the government's position will be that those when it comes to priorities can be changed, not to stop, but to change the dynamics of their realisation according to the possibilities. We were aware then and of the proposed shifts in the revenue side because it was not possible to discuss only expenditure without correcting and the revenue side, i.e. not to establish real revenue for the settlement of expenditure. At the time, we suffered criticism that it was a budget of desire, that it was a twilight of finance, etc. It turned out that at the end, it was realized with 99.3%, it was right then that it should be brave to deal with the rebalancing because if it hadn't happened, that what she said to me at the time, that there were also those who think it wouldn't be good, that maybe it would be a good autumn to wait and see what would happen, so maybe something else extraordinary would happen, then it would happen to us that in December there wouldn't be a pension, that there wouldn't be a payment of all those social rights, and then it would certainly be difficult for all those who have the right to do so, all of whose existence has convinced us that we were doing well by in doing what we wanted to do best to contribute to their status, standards and to care for them. The same way we talked about at the time and agreed on how to behave when it comes to partners because a government that does not know how to establish a dialogue, which is difficult to work or does not have partners has much more difficulties than if it can do so. We made a deal, we need to talk to our partners, but we need to talk real. Talk on the basis of opportunities, not on the basis of promises and expectations that something will be resolved in itself. And then there were initiatives and consideration of those regulations that determine certain rights from the period when the figures spoke of something completely different when it came to economic growth, when the figures spoke differently when it came to filling certain positions of the budget when they otherwise spoke about the growth figures of the social product. There must have been a time of the most intense presentation through the figures of the economic crisis in action, but the answer to that was the program, the program of how to get out of the crisis. As coalition partners after a deep analysis, we agreed that an analysis should work and move a chapter by chapter. Talk to each segment in the economy because the impact of the crisis and the consequences of the crisis do not have the same consequences for individual economic operators. And it turned out that one such work, that one such approach yields results. Because, for example, the first meetings that were held were with a branch of wood growers where tens of thousands of people were employed in one way or another, tied to that branch and coming with faxes of foreign customers to delay all orders until further notice. The answer was to see how we can contribute to the survival of this activity, to survive, to wait for the crisis to come out and take a new swing. The measures were a postponement of payment, a return of the prices of wood mass, and the effect of that we now have when they are 3, and some even have four times as many orders as they had before. If it hadn't been for that kind of approach, if it hadn't been for that kind of behavior, it would have been safe to say today that the woodworking industry has remained in our tracks or that we simply have raw materials, but we don't have those who would have processed it, that would have added a new value to it and placed it on foreign markets. All that time there were those who offered solutions. Not once was the proposed president and the government, the coalition partners call the IMF. If we had called the IMF, then, like a lot of things, they'd look simpler. Because we know what they usually gave as a recipe everywhere they came. They gave the recipe reduced salaries or pensions by 10 to 20%, nowhere less than 10%. If we take the structure of these expenditures into the budget, then it's tens of billions and very quickly we could say that we've evened the budget, but we would certainly be in a position that those who receive the salaries are tied to the budget, whether they're in health, in school, in science, in culture. Whether those who have certain incomes based on their status are receiving from the social part of the budget or those based on their contribution as pensioners, they would all be one move, one request or its fulfillment in the situation that this applies to them, but as there is no other and there is no help. The government was aware of that. The government has come to an end no matter how someone talks at this point and they say, so it's normal, so it's the government's job and it doesn't need to be discussed whether the budget has to secure the salaries, whether pensions have to be provided from the budget. But there are also those countries where it would also be normal and necessary but it's not happening, so it's certainly both credit for both prime ministers and the government. They offered her other solutions. For example. the rationalization and reform of the state administration and the immediate dismissal of 30,000. She didn't accept it. She said rationalization that, efficiency yes, efficiency is reflected in the conclusion that in 40 days or 45 days construction permits should be issued, efficiency is reflected in other numerous fields, in a court where the number of cases is reduced annually by more than 15%, where cases are halved, etc. This is efficiency, it is rationality, it has reduced the number of subjects, but the functioning of the area, and the activity has been preserved. There were suggestions to devalue the Kuna. It's easy to say. The government with the prime minister at the helm was aware of what this would mean for our citizens whose credit duties were normally tied to the foreign exchange clause and what a blow to our citizens would be. Surely international activity is also very important in all of this. And the prime minister has established for us very good friendly relations with both EU and Germany leaders, and Russia, and Italy as our biggest trading partner, and America, and I think that this is something that needs to continue to work and how Croatia should be affirmed, and not what some say is that this is how the reputation of Croatia is ripped away. She had the courage to talk to everyone, but we can't talk openly and objectively and with shipbuilders who have been told the government is not against shipbuilding, but in Croatian shipbuilding we can't build tankers at a competitive price because neither the Poles nor anyone else can do it anymore, but come up with new products, new vessels, you will have support. She had the courage to talk to those from a series of other activities, but always realistically, objectively without a promise, which they would say without cover, and expecting that something would then be solved in itself. Because of these arguments that time no longer allows me to list, it certainly has support and the HSS club will not vote in favour of the initiative, i.e. it will be against the vote of distrust of the Prime Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60934	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60935	Says Mr. Representative, actually he's been offering it to Mrs. Prime Minister of the IMF, but it wasn't necessary, she had the strength to deal with the problems. However, if it continues that way, the IMF will come alone. Those aren't my words. He warns you of that, Governor Rohatinski. Governor Rohatinski speaks directly if reforms do not continue to delay the conclusion of engagements with the IMF will no longer be possible to avoid. But Mrs. Prime Minister is busy with when and how Mr. Sanader will answer, and she doesn't listen to what Mr. Rohatinski is saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60936	Thank you very much. I'd like you to at least indicate what you're correcting. Not that, not even that much. And we have a second correction to the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60937	Thank you very much. According to Mr. Friscic, the prime minister has caught up with problems and has particularly stressed the good planning of public finances and budget rebalancing. It stands out as if it wasn't here with us when we had 4.5 rebalances every year and last year and these, when we were planning the deficit at the beginning of the year in nine billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60938	Excuse me, what are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60939	I'm correcting that she stepped into action and had the strength and well-planned public finances. So did the man say that? It is.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60940	Well, you have to point that out.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60941	Mr. Friscic does not see what all Croatian citizens see, and that is that this government is incompetent and even in this area that I was just talking about. But a good year will pass quickly, so you will see Mr. Friscic esteeming you voters.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60942	Thank you. We have a further discussion in clubs. As the last club, SDP's respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60943	Mr. Vice President, Prime Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The representatives of the applicant on the issue of trust, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Jadranka Kosor, feel that today is the time to discuss and open a debate on this trust. On behalf of the SDP club, I will remain only on those reasons that are economical, which we point out to be the reason for this debate. Therefore, immediately at the beginning of the SDP club, the Prime Minister, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, believes that she is responsible for the poor economic policy in the Republic of Croatia, is also responsible for the significant fall in the standards of Croatian citizens. The SDP Club also believes that it is responsible for the growth of unemployment, that it is responsible for the decline of the gross social product, that it is responsible for the uncontrolled growth of external debt. The club also holds it responsible for the growth of budget deficits, and without any results in part of economic recovery, economic crisis and investment in development. Well, I'd like to start with the events 15 months ago. Presenting the government's continuity, the Prime Minister proposed to keep his predecessor's programme, Ivo Sanader, with certain changes, but stressed that economic measures: preserving macroeconomic stability, creating conditions for recovery and stable economic growth, labour market stability and implementation of active employment policy are a constant increase in competitiveness and the export power of the Croatian economy. These were the fundamental economic objectives set out by the Prime Minister in her programme. And 15 months ago, many in Croatia, and especially the businessmen set themselves up a dilemma, whether it is more expensive to go to new elections or to support the Government of Continuity, to support such a programme by the Government of Mrs Jadranka Kosor. And then let me on behalf of the club we try to deliver the results after those 15 months. And what are the results for which it is now necessary to assess whether a new 12 months should continue, or whether it is time to say that it is time for new elections. We divided them according to the results of citizens, economies and, of course, reforms. So let's start with 15 months of work brought by the Prime Minister to the citizens of Croatia through an economic programme. Two of the most difficult things, uncertainty and non-solidarity that threaten the citizens of Croatia. Why the uncertainty? In Croatia, we will probably record more than 300,000 unemployed this month. In these 15 months alone, the prime minister's responsibility for 80,000 lost jobs. We are all witnessing business announcements to close down their companies by the end of the year, reduce their economic activity and talk about possible new 30,000 unemployed. We are also witnesses, and that is what each of us politicians must find hard to fall, that workers are trying to send a message we are doing and we are not getting paid or getting it irregularly. 85,000 are those who are threatened because they do not receive their salary for monthly work, and therefore this is the result of the work of Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. We also have to say that the apparent drop in purchasing power and employees and retired ones, and that is the logical conclusion that 80% of employees cannot maintain their monthly family needs with their salary and 90% of pensioners with their pensions. How much is the responsibility of Jadranka Kosor as Prime Minister? Well, you see, it is exactly Jadranka Kosor that the solution to the crisis they finally admitted in 2009 decided to transfer to those living from work to workers and pensioners. The Prime Minister thus introduced a crisis tax as a model that would shift the burden of the crisis to the poorest and the hardest-working. It has threatened their standard and has done what is worst, a complete lack of solidarity in Croatia. Solidarity that everyone participates equally in the crisis. And when we all say that these are the many proposals just for the SDP club that said that we should also introduce taxes on the rich, that it is necessary to introduce taxes on huge capital gains derived from Croatia and that the burden of crisis with workers and employees and former workers should be shifted to those living from capital. There were concrete suggestions, and the government had them at their disposal. All this has been rejected and the government has concluded that the crisis tax and the larger VAT on Croatia's citizens, so workers and pensioners should bring the crisis to their backs. Also, the Prime Minister is responsible for a huge number of unpaid and pension and health contributions. I don't want to use a number. At this point, what's known is that about 11, 12 billion unpaid contributions. But also many of us know that there are far more prolongats to pay those obligations. And when we total the outstanding tax liabilities plus contributions, that's the amount that threatens me to say the revenues of the state budget, endangers the users of the state budget, while at the same time resulting in government decisions on completely wrong policies. Also, what is important to note when we talk about citizens, then I would like to point out that it is possible for citizens from next year to expect a tax on property. But there is always a question of whether it will be a new tax instead of a crisis tax that is abolished or it will be a substitute for removing health contributions from workers' salaries. Hence, we have not received clear and unambiguous answers here either. What are the results of the 15-month work of the Prime Minister and the part of the economy. A real decline in gross social product in the last year of 5.8%, a decline in this year estimated from 1 to 2.5%, we'll see the results. But apparently, the announcements that follow for the last quarter can be expected even worse. The decline in investment of over 25%, the decline in personal consumption as a direct damage to the introduction of a crisis tax and an increased VAT of about 12%, hence the decline of domestic production. An external debt of over 46 billion euros. And what's also important is the indifference of over 31 billion kuna. Yes, it's a direct responsibility of this government. They didn't want to admit there was an indifference. They also refused to accept the fact that a good cause of non-payment in liquidity by public companies, non-payment by the state budget. That's not what he wanted to admit, either. There are no measures in that section to simply move towards recovery and to stop and advice that closes jobs, closes jobs. There's no solution to that part. And did we have them? We did. The SDP also offered them through an impelation on liquidity, and we wanted to discuss it, but they were deaf. Yes, there was a time when the opposition was both constructive and proposing. We even offered a law on how to sanction state firms that do not regularly pay their obligations. None of it in this House wanted to be heard or seen. Yes, it was a time of constructive work. If the industry didn't die, then she's tired. And you see, by SDP, you're aware that without industry, there's no jobs, there's no exports. We also offered interpretations on shipbuilding and on energy and on the Croatian railway. We offered solutions. Imagine in the shipbuilding proposal we don't go privatizing lost time, we go with restructuring. Let's turn to the shipyards. Yeah, those are the solutions we've been offering. It's all denied. Today we are hearing about the fact that this is an offer to the European Commission, that the president discuss this with the European Commission. Yes, these are constructive proposals for opposition that you did not want to discuss, which you were blind and deaf about because you do not want to communicate with anyone who offers you solutions. It's past the time of constructive opposition, because the results are tragic and worrying. Shall we talk about energy? Madam President, it is you who have proposed the adoption of the Energy Strategy, which is a fundamental future energy source of atomic energy. You didn't want to talk about stopping importing energy, turning to our own gas, turning to our own oil sources, turning to water resources and trying in some way to create and produce energy ourselves, turning to the investment cycle in the energy sector. Yeah, that's what you didn't want to talk about. For you in the eighth, seventh month I can't even remember the strategy was atomic energy and wait for the foreigners to import foreign equipment. Whether to speak of your responsibility for high interest on loans other than endangering the economy, except that they do not allow the economy to resolve financial dues, the solution to the inequitability also endangers citizens who are over-indebted. No, you didn't want to talk about interest heights. About what should have been a struggle to allow low interest to also maintain production and investment in such investments you did not accept. But you started thinking about some weird taxes on banking property. And to briefly touch that third sector, because obviously we could talk a lot about production, about failures in the economic field. The issue of reform remains. Yes, at a time when we could yet constructively propose we offered a restructuring of the administration, restructuring. This means taking care of the quality organisation of the administration, not the reduction of wages. You didn't accept. Today you add, connect, not say what effect it is or what effect it is. Now, but after you cut your wages. Here's how I'm running out of time, obviously, that the problem is to list all the failures we're looking for to discuss your trust. All these results of your 15-month work are the reason the SDP will vote for your mistrust.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60944	Thank you. Now we have 19 corrections of incorrect allegations. But before that, one violation of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60945	Mr Vice-President, the 147th article of the Rules of Procedure has been injured, which speaks of how the representatives of the Government may be involved in the debate. I've been listening here all morning rather unacceptable, not to say rude and loud intrusions coming from the ranks, from the benches where government representatives, or government members, are sitting for debates. I don't think that's absolutely right. They are sitting here today in support of their Prime Minister, so if they have anything to notice let them briefing her, and Madam President can always answer for a word and speak loudly at the pay phone, not throw it out of the bench like this here, that I do not now appoint the minister who did this on this occasion.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60946	Thank you. But I must warn you that as Vice-President of the Parliament, you throw very often from the bench both the chairman and everyone else in the House. So much for that. Who's clean let him throw a stone! And now we're going to correct incorrect allegations. First respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60947	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In a series of inaccuracies said by counterpart Linic, I will only say one, that it is incorrect that Mrs Jadranka Kosor, as Prime Minister, is guilty of increasing the number of unemployed. In fact, for the sake of truth, I'm going to have to argue that it was then from 2000 to 2003 when there were a million and 300,000 people who were employed, that from the time 2004 to 2009, it increased by 23% to a million 478. The global crisis and recession have brought everything, but not since... The thousands of jobs you are constantly banking on, as this government has increased employment by 85,000 people at this point in 2004 to 2009. [[You don't understand.]] And what I'm saying is, probably in your guilt that you've loaded on the back of the Prime Minister, it's probably also guilty of what's left in Doris Oak's drawer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60948	Thank you very much. I would ask all the participants of the debate since the debate will be very long, there are many reported, to stick to the exact time limit, and that each one adheres to it. Let's move on. It's all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60949	Mr. Vice President, by your judgment, how long could this debate take?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60950	Maybe tomorrow morning or a few days later. We'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60951	And it means no giving.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60952	We'll be there when we get to it, and we'll try some things and make a deal. We'll see. It is up to the honourable representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60953	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here I am correcting Mr. Linic's incorrect claim, so only one that talks daily about bad economic policy, where he accused the Prime Minister and the Government directly, and I am here once again correcting and speaking, and this is not how we should show the public that this government and the president are running a bad economic policy, when we are witnessing that this is happening in the world at the same time, so the global and economic recession. But, Mr. Linic, you were four years old in your government to show knowledge and credibility. You didn't show it when you ran it, and you've been leading it for only four years in the last 20 years. Therefore, it is also an answer to how many people in Croatia trust your knowledge, especially from your SDP party, and when it comes to the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60954	Thank you. It's the Honorable representative of Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60955	Mr. Vice-President, there are several incorrect allegations in this form of the indictment brought by Mr. Linic at the expense of the Prime Minister of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, that the economic results are without, there are no results and that the burden has gone to the poorest. I want to remind you of the material we received today on the benches, the implementation report, and the material that we received a few months ago, which refers to the economic recovery plan. Mrs. Kosor is in the grip of all reforms, with all the structural reforms that you are denying here today, so from the action plan to remove obstacles to investment, so you have building permits for large investments within 45 days, you have supervisory committees that are selected by competition, you have total transparency about public procurement, so these are long-term measures and their results cannot be seen so quickly. Short-term measures were a crisis tax that did not apply to the poorest, those with below 3,000 kuna salaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60956	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60957	And since 9/11, it's been abolished for these others, so I think you've completely missed out on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60958	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60959	... Mr Linic's incorrect allegations, two of which refer to the same thing. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] First, I quote a solution to the crisis, the government has shifted the burden of workers and pensioners, and secondly, that the crisis tax and higher VAT have put the government's standard of citizens at risk. You know very well that this is not true. First of all, a colleague of Shuica answered, as the government strictly made sure that the most vulnerable categories were exempt from the consequences of the crisis tax, the larger VAT, and you forget that at that time there was no funding for pension payments and salaries paid out of the state budget. And I'm asking you, Mr. Linic, if we're talking about the same citizens and the same pensioners, or the same workers, the ones you took off your salaries in 2000, those pensioners you didn't recognize the debt that happened today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60960	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60961	My colleague Hrelja denies it, but this government is at the heart of the state budget, all that you haven't done has been returned. And because of that, we're partly in this situation that we're in today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60962	Thank you very much. I again appeal to MPs and MPs, stick to the time schedule. Please. It's our guest, Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60963	Well, it's not true what MP Linic was taking in, the responsibility of the Prime Minister and the Government. The fact and truth is that this government, as much as it acted in the time of a very difficult recession, the financial crisis in the Republic of Croatia, at no time questioned the payment of pensions, salaries, non-delegated collective agreements, rights agreed, etc., and it would be good for Agent Linic to look at the mirror of history and then we could see about how your government ruled and precisely all that I was saying that this government did not.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60964	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60965	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's when Mr. Linic listed why it was all the prime minister's fault, among other things, he said he was guilty of increasing the number of unemployed. Of course that's incorrect. He has already partially corrected Mr Djakic, but I will point out once again that between 2004 and 2009, employment increased by 9%, compared to the 2000-2003 period. The average number of registered unemployed persons also decreased by 23% in the period 2004-2009 compared to 2000-2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60966	Thank you. It is time for the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60967	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's incorrect, colleague Linic, that the Prime Minister's burden of crisis has been transferred to the poorest. The Prime Minister carried out a programme of economic recovery, and right then, so who didn't touch the poorest citizens, and just when you expected it to happen before the budget rebalance in August of this year, when you were scaring citizens all summer by cutting salaries, pensions, and when that didn't happen, then you stayed in wonder. Probably this proposal is also the result of a miracle that you haven't recovered from yet, and even today you want to say that the programme, that the Prime Minister's burden of crisis has gone to the poorest. Remember, no right has been reduced by budget rebalances, by persons with disabilities, by births, by any other group of poorest citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60968	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60969	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Correcting Mr. Linic's allegations that... Someone's shutting down maybe? [[Speakers off the mic, you don't understand.]] Not at all. [[Intruder: No.]] Okay, then I'll repeat, please time. That the Prime Minister decided to transfer the burden of the crisis to the poorest by introducing a crisis tax. A number of times the repeated truth needs to be corrected several times. This is, of course, incorrect because the crisis tax has not been introduced for all those who have received up to 3 thousand kuna, from 3 thousand to 6 2%, and over 6 thousand 4%. In April, the tax was abolished for those poorer than 6 thousand kunas, thereby protecting the most vulnerable layer of society because it provided all social benefits and all pension payments from the budget when it would not be possible without a crisis tax. And we would expect that Mr. Linic might have been this socially sensitive when he was in the position of Deputy Prime Minister, and not that he then shared his resignations, cut wages, abolished social rights, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60970	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Dubravka, no, Ružica Šolić, Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60971	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I quote representative Linic: "Mrs. Prime Minister's solution to the crisis has decided to resolve the transfer of burden to workers, pensioners and the weakest." It is not true, MP Linic, that is exactly what you and your economic strategists, led by your President Milanovic, have proposed to the Croatian government and to the Prime Minister that there is no leaving Croatia from the crisis unless there is a reduction in wages in the state sector, unless pensions are cut, or even some social benefits will be abolished. It's your product. And you've produced that whole script, scared the Croatian people, please. And in the end, I always want to compare your ability because you show it 11 years of government in the city of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60972	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60973	You destroyed that city, the largest financial economic operator. You ripped him off and robbed him.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60974	Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60975	Today is the city of Zagreb
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60976	Thank you very much, Your Honor, your time is up. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60977	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60978	Please. There's a distinguished representative coming up, and now it's Miss twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60979	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is a number of incorrect allegations Mr. Linic I will correct one although it has already been corrected in one way, and that is his claim that the government of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor has transferred everything to the workers. Well, that's so hypocritical, but known by the opposition parties especially some, here's the gentleman representing the retired, because they simply in the budget rebalancing they didn't want to support him at all, so of course they didn't support 365 million separate pensions, which is embarrassing. So you didn't support the birth benefits of 100 million kunas, but that's normal because you cut them anyway in 2000. So you fired 10,000 police and military employees without consulting any social partners, so I'm not surprised you don't vote, you don't have a proposal, and you can use lunches and untrues, I'll be polite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60980	Thank you. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60981	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So MP Linic said, quote: "The Prime Minister has decided that workers and pensioners on their backs should carry out the burden of the crisis." That's not true. With the rebalancing of the budget that SDP did not support, nor did Mr Linic, the government had just secured salaries, pensions, all social benefits, children's allowances, maternity benefits, social benefits, but Mr Linic in everything my colleagues had said before me and forgot something prominent, in 2003 still remained in debt to Croatian professors, police officers, doctors about 3 billion kunas for unpaid, and according to collective agreement approved regresses and goddesses. And he forgot that, and that's what this government did when it came to power.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60982	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60983	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's everyone attacking fellow Linic that he incorrectly said that the crisis tax was transferred to the poorest, and I praise him because it's huge progress. So far, he's taken care of only the richest people. So let's say... to your rich friends. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, for example, by destroying small private pump owners, and hitting one of the river's large companies succeeded, clearly by the prices of the derivatives, it was able to come to the conclusion that the company purchased most of these small companies. So, selling a cheap hotel to your friends too. So please don't attack him anymore. My colleague Linic is getting better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60984	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60985	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here I have noticed the same incorrect allegations that colleagues have noticed, and I will specifically look back at that the government is jeopardizing the users of the budget. So I'm saying, dear fellow, is this endangerment being retired on time and regular? Is it a threat that the health system functions normally and neatly and all other users receive their fees in time and proper? It's nice to hear from you that you advocate the rights of users of the budget, but it would be much nicer if you were in time when you were vice president of the government if you were aware of it. Because at that time, the nurses' salaries were reduced, the work obligation imposed on doctors, introduced, not to tell the pensioners that they were not returned. We used to pay back some of our debts later. Rights of Croatian War Disableds, etc. Well, don't suffer our people, dear fellow, from short memories and we don't need any release letters from Rijeka, we have diagnosed, and therapy is ongoing.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60986	Thank you. It's next, the distinguished representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60987	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting Mr. Linic's quote that says, "Industry if she didn't die then she'll die." Mr. Linic, if you were in power, Mr. Jovanovic would have written this crisis, and if you had been to the AMBIENTI then you would have heard and seen that in the first 8 months of this year positive trends were recorded. Exports of wood industry increased more than 10% compared to the same period last year, while imports decreased 20% of surplus growth in the external and trade balances and branches that amounted to $178m in the first eight months of this year and last year amounted to $34m.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60988	Thank you. Well, now it's up to the honourable representative Kresimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60989	The completely incorrect statement by Mr Linic, which claimed that atomic energy is the basis of Croatia's energy strategy. Not only is it incorrect, it's surprising, because obviously you haven't read it, you don't know what it says. If you remember then you'd probably know that it says, "By 2020, two times 600 megawatts, two thermopower plants on coal so-called. clean coal technology. It's a second-place float, twice 400 megawatts of gas. Vukovar plus some other location, hydropower plants, renewable sources." Someone who has been vice-president of such public improvisation, such untrueness in the Croatian Parliament is not appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60990	Honorable representative Antun Mance, correction of an incorrect allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60991	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would correct Mr. Linic's incorrect claim regarding the poor management of the government's economy, and he's saying he's going to die. However, I would remind him that my colleague Caparin has now said that the wood industry has significant shifts, so export growth has already crossed 8%. But the most I reported was to remind Mr. Linic of the year 2001 when he sold the wood industry and in my town, when he had no ideas like this. I wish I'd heard him talking about the support then, there was no will of that government to support it. If you had decided then and helped the wood industry, shipbuilding is one particular topic again, then that wood industry would only have to say with 15% help and there would be even more today than it is now rising with government support lately with aid from 40 to 60 million kuna, and the results are visible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60992	Thank you. No benching. Your Honor, I'd appreciate it if you didn't throw it away. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ante Kulušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60993	Mr. Vice President. Well, a colleague of the SDP has now nicely thrown fellow Manc to the voter's office. Well, the voters told you everything. I would only correct one in a series of incorrect allegations. It is not true that the Croatian government does not take care of shipbuilding. The Croatian government has submitted a shipbuilding reconstruction programme to the European Commission, completing the process of compliance with the European Union's criteria. And what happened between 2000 and 2003, we all know that together. We know that the total recovery of shipbuilding was about 8.5 million kuna. These include... claims and claims of debts and credit claims, etc. However, nothing happened in the context of the reconstruction of shipbuilding but only spending on budget money. And the vice president of the government then had a chance to solve the shipbuilding, so he didn't solve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60994	Thank you. And finally, the correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60995	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I'm correcting Mr. Linic's incorrect allegations that you've been offering shipbuilding solutions. I'm pretty well following the situation in Croatian shipbuilding. I must say that I have not seen any good excesses or suggestions offered by SDP Club and fellow Linic to Croatian shipbuilding. But the problems in Croatian shipbuilding did not arise in 2008 so that you should offer solutions in 2009. The problems were before you knew it very well even when you were in power, so then you were the solutions that you offered us today were supposed to spend then. And not by yourself, you're like the then Deputy Prime Minister, one of the active participants in signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The agreement defines what support means, which means guarantees and which means restructuring of Croatian shipbuilding. Therefore, everything the government today does when it comes to shipbuilding is practically framed by an agreement that you signed. Therefore, at least in the part but also in many other powers should be correct when it comes to the conduct of the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60996	Thank you very much. Excuse me, Frani Matusic. I skipped him myself. Dear Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60997	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, incorrectly, MP Linic said the last quarter announcements are even more negative and worse. On the contrary. The last quarter is positive. So economic growth will be seen in the last quarter as well as for the next year where they are positive at the annual level. And it's not just our predictions, it's also the World Bank and other factors that monitor and analyze. Also, a colleague, Linic, found the right person to talk about the shipyard. The person directly responsible for giving millions of kunas from the state budget to the private shipyard Viktor Lenac, and after the money was sucked out, the shipyard was sent into bankruptcy. You found yourself talking about the shipyard. And the third thing, colleague Linic, is not the government of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor as guilty as you say. First, it can't be as guilty as you say. It is not here where the court is being tried, it is not the Croatian Assembly Court and we do not recognise your party court.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60998	Thank you. On behalf of the Government, the distinguished Jadranka Kosor, prime minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u60999	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here's to the end of the debate on behalf of the clubs but certainly inspired and encouraged by this speech that we heard on behalf of the SDA Club to say something two, three words about the economy. There will certainly be a lot more words here, but let me be quite a bit personal since Mr. Linic has done it many times, so here I am at the usual weekly press conferences in Rijeka where the strike three or four SDPs performed many times and tried really to humiliate and offend. So she called me, which now reminded me because 486 times she almost mentioned it in her presentation of Jadranka Kosor, so my name and last name, called me then and the fly zuzar, which should be removed. So here's because it's quite personal, and I have the right to mention it based on something here just before the bench hearing that we should be worthy of everything we say but also of ourselves. So, I continue to appeal to a courteous debate in Parliament, and I pray that there is no falsehood here when it comes to the work of the government. So it is quite certain that the decisions we made in July last year related both to the crisis tax and to raising VAT rates were based on the insolvency that we had absolutely ignored what is called the citizens' standard that we were insensitive. That's not true. I'll also explain the data. So, when we have reached a coalition in the conversation, based on talks with the social partners, it means primarily unions, union centres, but also employers, this difficult decision to introduce a crisis tax because as you know only 20, for example, billions of kuna for pensions is collected from contributions, and the rest of 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 billion as the number of pensioners grows, we must naturally secure from the budget. So, we made that too difficult decision to introduce a crisis tax. However, I ask you to remember, who of course wants to listen, about 900 thousand pensioners in the Republic of Croatia were exempt from paying any rate of special tax, any rate. And also about 600,000 employees were exempt from paying that tax, meaning a special tax in times of crisis. Also, as you know, this year as soon as possible, we decided that the first rate of that tax should be abolished, and this second one also goes back in history in a few days. These are ladies and gentlemen of the facts. So we took care of the most sensitive, we were still socially endangered, and at least last year we brought in two budget rebalancings and this year another one, not even then, in July 2009, we did not reduce neither the June nor the kuna from the funds intended to pay for children and maternity benefits. So we did the same thing this year, in rebalancing for this year, although many have pushed us into it, and I think ladies and gentlemen, that where the anxiety comes from, to reduce wages and pensions, the government or the coalition has decided not to do so, that this would not be a good time because we would crash the standard of citizens, but we would also end that growth that we call consumption. So we'd do it so that consumption would also fall, so that the circle would close, and we obviously failed the expectations of the opposition at that moment, first of all, of the SDP. So we didn't do it because we were taking care of that moment. And I remind you, it is now, of course, a debate in which not only needs to be looked into the future and not only about what is today but we have the right to look into the past, so in the mirror, so remember that Mr Linic, as vice-president of the government then advocated what was happening, also means reducing maternity benefits and abolishing three-year leave, but also all those measures that directly affected the lives of the most sensitive groups in Croatian society. I also remind myself that collective agreements related to employees of state and public services broke up, that they did not argue with social partners as we do today, that they were unilaterally broken up and the consequences were ladies and gentlemen of the lawsuits in Croatian courts, and in total we paid several billion in the name of these lawsuits. When we add the charges to the Croatian defenders who also had rights reduced overnight, without discussion and without dialogue with them, then we again witnessed the lawsuits in Croatian courts. They all got it, all the convictions were in favor of the defender, and we had to redistribute the funds again in the budget in order to settle everything that those who sued the state and got. So here's the thing about social sensitivity. I will also remember these times because I was a representative in the Croatian Parliament when Mr. Linic, the Deputy Prime Minister, very sensitive as you hear in the current times, when the electricity was collected and when the time was mentioned when the electricity was cheaper, very clearly in an interview, said in a diary that women can iron at night because then the electricity was cheaper and fiercely rebelled because they were protesting the reduction of birth benefits because he said, he said, he said that he was completely unclear, young women, so those who gave birth to children, who are still at home on maternity leave are still at home, doing nothing and rebeling because the birth benefits were reduced. Ladies and gentlemen, around the shipbuilding, it is true and reminded of one of the representatives, shipbuilding and all the shipbuilding business begins with the signing of the SAA, in 2001 all the processes actually begin. I've been responsible here for the work of this government and I've made it very clear that everything we've done in the past more than a year. So, I said intro, the restructuring plans were sent to the European Commission. We expect them to be positively evaluated. If that happens then, of course I'm talking about these biggest, the Oilman was able to exclude from the shipbuilding site that is in difficulty, we re-commanded the tender at last week's government meeting for the Queen, and if the plans are accepted then the smugglers will be able to negotiate the construction of new ships. And so, ladies and gentlemen, things stand. As for the data as well, it's amazing, but it's true that a representative of the SDP club did not mention the fact that in the first 8 and 9 months, respectively, the amount grew. In European Union countries by 14.8%, in general more than 13%, in the United States, 28%, that imports continue to decline, ladies and gentlemen, that industrial production has increased by 3.1%, that this government had both the courage and the strength to reduce so-called. parafiscal accusations, something spoken of I could say for two decades in support of the Croatian economy and that we did it. As for the indivisibility mentioned by Mr Linic on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, allow me to say that we have been able absolutely in these few months to arrange state-owned companies or those that are in the bulk of the ownership of the Republic of Croatia, that they owe nothing, that is, for example. HEP last year still owed about a billion kunas at this time. Ladies and gentlemen, today he owes us nothing. We have also arranged Croatia's roads and highways in this regard, but we have also adopted action plans for all of them to fight corruption. Therefore, of course we wish the situation in the economy was even better. She will be, projected growth. We predicted growth of 1.5% of GDP next year if we achieved some of these investment plans, and we want to see more growth. The wood industry is mentioned here. Here I want to say, Mr. Vice-President, it is important that thanks to our efforts and efforts of the government, so in the observed period it means the first eight months of 2010, 20% less furniture was imported, but 10% more was exported. Yes, thanks to our efforts and our work. There will be plenty more opportunities today for a talk about economics and economic movements. I'm going to end up with the fact that I started by referring to the sensitivity or insensitivity of the government. You didn't want SDP gentlemen to vote in favour of budget rebalancing, you didn't want to vote and help us determine the new nearly 360 million kuna pensions, 386 million kunas for the unemployed. You were against it. You were opposed to about 600 million kunas being given to farmers who had difficulty living and also against paying about 300 million kunas to all those who suffered flood damage. But you were also against the fact that 170 million kunas were allocated to carry out the referendum, and we listen daily to how it should still happen. So much for credibility and so much for data and so much for facts, and I urge you to keep the debate just and exclusively based on facts and truths. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61000	Thank you very much. We now have several corrections of incorrect allegations, so the first respected representative is Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61001	I'm correcting the inaccuracies of the Prime Minister who says they're sensitive because 80% of the pensioners didn't pay the crisis tax. Madam President, you've taxed your incomes above three and over six thousand in a crisis tax. With three and six thousand families, he can't survive. So you're not sensitive and that's an incorrect quote. You are not sensitive because you simply took workers and low-income pensioners, and at the same time you had solutions to tax huge dividends, huge capital gains, huge wealth that exists in Croatia but you did not want to, so that is proof that you are not solid.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61002	Thank you. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61003	The Prime Minister says I'm responsible for the work of this government. That's how Madam Prime Minister should be, but unfortunately not. Because when you're asked anything about the business of this government, about the excesses, about some unpleasant things, you say that you know nothing about it, and you reject any responsibility. This is where your epigons defend you that the government is not charged, so it's not guilty and that guilt can't be talked about at all, etc. and so much closer. And on the other hand, you know everything that happened in 2000, 2001, others. If you were to devote so much effort only a small part of it to see, so you are responsible for this very mandate of Croatia would be much better. And it would be much better if you were looking for Croatian solutions without looking for excuses.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61004	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Jovanovic, a correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61005	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting Mrs. Prime Minister's incorrect allegations that the government has been responsible for the restructuring of Croatian shipbuilding, because Croatia's shipbuilding is just an example of ignorance, intricacies, inability, irresponsibility and poor negotiation and seven-year delay, which is why Croatian shipbuilding has been brought to ruin as currently 12000 Rijeka and Rijeka are practically in front of the soup kitchen while you have been happily guzzling in Lovranska Draga with your friend from Slovenia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61006	Please! Your Honor, a little bit. Please, honourable MPs, thus underestimating the two prime ministers of our neighbouring friendly country, the conversations that are common, which are held everywhere in the world so that it is indeed below each level. Let your club deal with it. I'm not gonna teach you that. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61007	Madam President, you're saying that at moments like this, we have the right to look at the mirror and then spend a good part of your exposure in time of Racan's government as well as the entire HDZ club that's dealing with nothing but Racan's government, as though we're discussing here today the need for the resignation of Racan's government. Racan's government is not seven years old,... Try to understand that people have nothing to eat, try to figure out that 88,000 of them lost their jobs, try to figure out that their houses are going to the drum because they can't... [[You can't hear the speaker.]] and try to understand your government's responsibility for such a situation. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61008	Thank you. Please calm down. It is up to Commissioner Milanka Opačić, a correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61009	I'm correcting Mrs. Kosor's incorrect claim that we from the SDP club were against 170 million kunas to carry out the referendum. I really can't believe you said that, Mrs. Kosor, because I can't believe you underestimate your citizens so much. So everyone knows that you've put 170 million kunas into the budget, and on the other hand you've ordered the Constitutional Court to make a decision that won't give citizens the opportunity to go to the referendum. I have nothing to be ashamed of, and you think about your words and insults which as one woman and prime minister, the most responsible woman in this country to solve the problem... [[You can't hear the phone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61010	Honorable representative Josip Leko, violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61011	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, you have injured Article 1 and Article 208. Rules of Procedure. Article 1 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure say only the Rules of Procedure are governed by order in the Assembly, and that the Rules of Procedure do not create a chairman. And Article 208 states paragraph 3 that the president is in charge of making sure that the representative does not interfere when speaking. Now it was a classic example, an obvious example of how you allow SDP agents to yell, turn off the microphone, and it is impossible for citizens who represent them to hear what they're saying. It's not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61012	Your Honor, I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, because I'm simply introducing order as much as you allow yourself here, and you're responsible people all sitting here, and each and every one of you is responsible for how he behaves in the assembly. And secondly, I gave all the seats to see who it was that threw someone out when he was talking and shutting down. So if someone's going to shut it down then we're going to detect it and see why it's doing it, because it's creating a mess. Therefore, your remark is unfounded. Let's move on. So now it's time for the esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar, to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61013	The opposition demanded a reduction in pensions and salaries. Madam Prime Minister, I'd like to ask you to use this word of opposition a little more selective and careful, because that statement incorrectly accused me of asking or proposing a reduction in wages or pensions. It may be funny to you, as well as to this whole debate, but in this House there are parties that are not members of the HDZ or the SDP. So I didn't ask for a pension reduction, never, but I did ask for pension systems to be taken, taken away, exempt from privileged pensions, especially to be abolished by politicians of privileged pensions. That's what you forgot to say you were wanted. And as right as I was, when I was against amending the Labour Act, arguing that it was in the background of a desire to break up collective agreements, you confessed here today. So please don't put us all in the same basket when you like it and like it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61014	Thank you. There is a correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Željka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61015	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister, it is completely incorrect and I doubt that you do not know that the SDP was against the budget rebalancing providing insufficient funds to pay pensions and to pay the unemployment benefits. It is true that Madam Prime Minister that we were indeed against your budget rebalancing, but not because of these two items, but because you, in continuity, are trying to cover up all those robberies and thefts that occurred directly from the budget, or from some of the budgets connected, and institutions and businesses, and to keep your mouth shut about it. The rebalancing of the budget, including the cutting of salaries, i.e. pensions for Croatian defenders, except for those who are 100% military disabled, would not be necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61016	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61017	That you were on time to make sure the money wasn't stolen.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61018	Thank you very much. It is up to the distinguished representative Gordana Sobol, as the final correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61019	Well, Mrs. Kosor said as Prime Minister that this government has done everything and that parafiscal intrusions have been lifted, and I have now. ... That's exactly what you are. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Or reduced. Okay, cut. Madam Prime Minister, what you did was count how many parafiscal duties the Croatian state has. I think it's the number 250, and now you say it as Prime Minister, which is a parafiscal imposition reduced, except for the part relating to the water compensation, the economic chamber that reduced that mandatory contribution, and one part about the forest. List more which are all other parafiscal, and monumental rent. Of 250 parafiscal loads.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61020	Thank you. And now the esteemed representative Zoran Milanovic, the proposing representative, has applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61021	So someone said this really doesn't make sense, this shooting, going back to 2001, 2002, but it certainly makes sense, that's what we wanted to hear, and that's what we heard. This government can't move away from the shadow of the past, and that's why the quote of the great Goldae Meir who read the Prime Minister said, which we haven't found anywhere on any of the search engines, though. I'm sorry, maybe you are, but that statement has nothing to do with Gold Meir, and it's not on any google, but it's good that you read it. So I'll tell you each other. It's a big woman you have to be careful with when you compare yourself to. So the one who's bothered with the present, changes the past or something like you said, that's exactly what you're doing. Here's a picture of the way the HDZ Club behaves. You must have read my Israel Goldae Meir, there has one, one light motive that passes, and that is that, in order for a woman to be as successful as a man must be much better than a man. And that's what Golda Meir has been proving her whole life, going to elections, being unwavering, waging wars, so learn something from her. Let's say about the election. Golda Meir came to power with the right elections. And she lost those choices, and she got them, and she was a big person. But you must have read my Israel and Goldae Meir memoirs so I don't have to explain it specifically. Back in 2001, 2002, it's legitimate, we can't ban it, that's what we want to hear. Here we have just analyzed, for example, the 2001 or 2002 debate on the establishment of USKOK, at the time being Minister Stipe Ivanišević, so that some of today's HDZ representatives who were not MPs would be happy to see what some of their colleagues, who are now patriarchs at the club, were saying. Look at that. It is not necessarily read, nor am I setting it for you, nor am I setting it for anyone in the SDP, but it is very convenient to see what the legal knowers at the time were saying about UskoKK and whether we needed a BOOK. But that was 2001. Today we are where we are, this debate will continue for hours. We're ready to last as long as it takes, the cuts are gone, we're ready for arguments, we're ready and we're ready to face every species, we're here. Here we are. Ms. Prime Minister and her team believe they are doing a great job for Croatia, Croatia is a successful country, it is almost not in recession, it has almost no economic downturn, and the period from the beginning of the decade has been a failure, although it was a period of continued economic growth, smart borrowing, highway construction. Therefore, a Croatian historical dream that simply once was to be made up by someone. And that's when it happened. But only you get back to 2001 and 2002 is the year that actually makes us very happy. We decided here on purpose that Slavko Linić spoke on behalf of the club and we knew that you would react this way because we have no fears, no doubts, no guilty conscience, you know. Yesterday someone quoted Shkvorecki as saying in the paper that his biggest proverb, that Schwarecki, is that any aggression is always, or at least generally, motivated by an unclean conscience. Of course that doesn't apply to us. Your conscience is clear, you have nothing to do with those previous relationships and lead the country to a bright future. Croatia is not in an economic crisis, the number of unemployed does not grow, we have robust economic growth, the rule of rights flourish, etc., etc. My colleagues and colleagues are having an individual discussion. Remember, Golde Meir, I'm not gonna end up like Cromwell right now and say, "Go, for God's sakes," but I'll tell you that on that INA board, one of the MPs said that it was all one "grosse Spiele" and then your mentor said it was "grosse Spiel," and Krle would say "Ein groses falsee Spiel – one big scam." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61022	Thank you very much. ... Let's calm down. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] But we're going to the corrections of the quote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've got three reports. My dear colleague, Commissioner Dubravka Shuica. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61023	Here's two quotes. In the part where he was trying to talk about Golda Meir, Mr Milanovic, and about winning power in the elections. With us, the prime minister is not elected in the direct elections but is elected by Parliament. This morning, the president told you in her opening statement, so she had 82 or 83 signatures that were confirmed by the then president of the state and was legitimately legitimately elected in this democratic Croatian Parliament as president of the Croatian government. That's one thing. And secondly, you were just trying to caricate a little bit now and say that we said that there was no crisis, that everything was fine. We didn't say that. We said the situation was difficult. The prime minister often says that it is extremely difficult and we say this, but of course we are doing everything possible to improve this situation. Times are hard, but you've been playing with our words.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61024	Thank you. A distinguished colleague colleague, Boris Kunst, has applied further. Here's your colleague, Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61025	Thank you very much. Well, MP Milanovic said coming back to the future makes no sense. As much as it wouldn't make sense to a colleague, the past, it doesn't make sense. How could it not make sense? Well, citizens right now need to hear and remember what you were doing when you were in power. I will remind you of what has been confirmed, the trade unions then called your policy a policy of economic violence of slave ownership. They asked for a government shift, asked for a replacement of individual ministers. I don't want to remind you again what you've been doing, but you know the one who's ashamed of his past is asking him the future that you need to know. And therefore, do not be ashamed that we remind citizens of how you were when you were in power. And you were in the SDP back then, Mr. Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61026	Thank you. Further,... Let's not, let's not be offended. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's been said many times, we know, intervene and say it's not right and it's not right. And I repeat, it's not right for us to address each other this way. Dear Maric, here you are, reporting for correction of the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61027	Thank you very much. A colleague, Milanovic, said that one HDZ representative at the INA Committee told Mr Sanader that they were "gross Spiele" probably thinking of me. A colleague of Milanovic's is not true. I quoted your colleague from the SDP as saying that during the sale of INA to MOL, they were "grosse spiele", and this is a statement by Mr Ljuba Jurcic. I was quoting him, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61028	Thank you. And colleague Markovanovic, rectification of the quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61029	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague Milanovic says they are so sure of their rule that here they deliberately send a colleague of Linic out because they are not afraid of anything that is not true because that is true every other day, not every second day, counterpart Linic and his spokeswoman Jovanovic would raise shit in Rijeka to distract attention from those years. But whoever stoned you with it, no one quoted analyst Davor Genner as saying the day before yesterday that this cause was imbecileial. I've been looking a little bit at the dictionary of foreign words that one meaning. I'll just say one thing - you can translate the imbecile with the weak. I won't go any further because the rest is offensive. Therefore, a weak opposition can contribute nothing but this.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61030	Thank you, thank you. And word came from the Honorable Prime Minister Here's the message... [[I'm looking for a word.]] On behalf of the Proposer, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61031	I don't take these things seriously. These are regular spitters and swearers. So they insult, curse. That's where your lawyer curses you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61032	My colleague Milanovic, I intervened immediately. It's not right, and
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61033	You didn't intervene.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61034	I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61035	You didn't intervene. Unlike HDZ, I don't need anyone to defend me. We do it ourselves. So you must protect the integrity of this house. The man swears. Today's representative there too.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61036	I warned him three times and I said, we don't have to agree on anything, but we can't be offended.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61037	I don't expect you to warn him, but you have to do it regardless of what I don't expect. A man swears in the Parliament. I told him to return the apartment, the town apartment he lives in. Here, I tell him again. Let him swear again.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61038	Well, okay, but here you are now turning off the topic because today is not about the debate of returning the apartment, the city's apartment, but it's about trust for the government. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61039	I'm calling to return the city apartment for the poor girl she lives in. And then we can talk about apartments because it's our favorite theme, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61040	I believe that this topic will be discussed at the City Hall because you yourself said city apartment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61041	That he doesn't swear, because people swear and curse.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61042	Okay, who's going to swear and rot will get a public notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61043	You have to stop it from happening.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61044	Thank you. Madam President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61045	Just for a minute, Mr. Vice President. I absolutely join Mr Milanovic's invitation to make the debate absolutely correct, we are certainly trying to do so. Certainly, all of us who call for a proper debate must be correct on our own. I heard Mr. Milanović on the Croatian Radio the other day when you were a guest of half an hour in which you attacked a fierce government and me, so they released an insert from something I said and you commented on what she said had nothing to do with the brain. So let's all go from ourselves and then take a little bit of trust and then go into debate. I agree with you only correctly, only with facts, only with arguments without low punches. But here's because Mr. Milanovic said that I said I was, in fact, comparing myself with Mrs. Golde Meir, that's not true. I can't think of a chance to compare myself to such a great statesman. I'm absolutely doing my job the best I can. I got your trust. The HDZ won the parliamentary 2007 elections and therefore I received support from MPs. I certainly remind you once again that President Mesic's mandate came before this House and won with his colleagues and colleagues in government confidence. And when it comes to it just before we heard about it, too, that Mr Milanovic said, of course ironically, that here we all show that everything is ideal in Croatia that there is no crisis, there is no corruption, etc. Not exactly the opposite, we talk all the time about what the government has done in the fight against the crisis. I speak personally, honestly and openly to citizens and citizens, telling every detail when I became Prime Minister clearly I went to the public and said the situation was difficult, serious, we have to make difficult decisions, crisis taxes, VAT etc. But we'll fight, we've got strength, we've got knowledge, we've got brains. We invite everyone who wants to join us, so I call again and do everything we can to get Croatia out of the crisis. No, we do not claim that there is no corruption, however, we say we fight this evil and we will fight it evil and we will be successful and we will invite everyone who can join us, and... when it comes to their door to cement them and say there is nothing to ask here. I mean, of course, institutions. And since it's been said that it's good to go back to the past and see what it's been like in the past few years. I will only mention when the period until 2003 was mentioned that a deficit was left in 2003 or that we were all witnessing it of 5.3%. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, once again I call for a debate on the basis of this proposal, but the debate that will lead to the goal, which is that the majority in this House vote is not trusting those who have asked for a vote of no confidence in the ruling coalition and this government so that it can continue its work. Certainly very quickly stand before you again, propose a 2011 budget, continue the implementation of all projects, but certainly in the first place at this time finish negotiations to become a proud member of the European Union. I invite you to join us in that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61046	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, colleague Zoran Milanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61047	So, I'm glad you quoted what I said on Croatian Radio. These are important things, listen to this, these are very important things. I really said that what you said in the quote had nothing to do with the brain. That's how I say maybe a little rough, but wait, wait, you'll have fun, it'll be fun, hey, hey. You'll have fun. And you know what you said that I said, so I personally offended you as your noble spears here who really swear in the House, these are nice gentlemen. Cursing in the Parliament. You know what I said about swearing in Parliament. Not that it's not an insult, it's a very verifiable statement. They're cursing in the Parliament. So I said that what Mrs. Prime Minister said at the time that it had nothing to do with his brain, I commented on her statement that the SDP was in cahoots with Ivo Sanader to hold the lottery. That was my comment. But today must have shown Mrs. Kosor was right. That was my comment. Just so you know, gentlemen of the HDZ. There are some bad rumors later that the HDZ spokeswoman called and called for the order of editors why I was alone in the studio. So I sweared in the studio and I commented on your true statements. So I apologize. As for the apartments, it will be about a special topic for discussion in the Parliament. We all have a lot to say here, don't we, pal? Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61048	Thank you. First of all, I am obliged to give the word regarding the corrections of the allegations to the address of the Prime Minister. Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61049	Thank you very much. I would correct the incorrect assumption that Mrs. Jadranka Kosor was given her term as prime minister in 2007. I would remind her that at that time all the HDZ lists were carried by Ivo Sanader, and she was the first on the list in the city of Zagreb in the first constituency where she received 11% less than the SDP or exactly 28 thousand votes. So much for Mrs. Kosor's legitimacy to lead this government and Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61050	Thank you. Mr. Lesar, did I get a good look at your plate? You haven't answered. Thank you. We're done with just slow. We now have two applications for a correction to the address of Mr Milanovic, and first of all, the distinguished colleague Đurđica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61051	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would just like to correct the incorrect allegations of MP Milanovic, when he says it will be fun for you. Mr. Milanovic, we're not here to have fun. You are certainly here to have fun, so you've initiated all of this, because there's a lot better work to do than explain yourself to you, for example. about the apartments and about Covic, the president of your Holding, who bought the apartments. But we'll talk about it another time. We'll talk about it next time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61052	Let's let the apartments go now. We're discussing the government. And the order is further rectifications of the quote. Dear colleague Frano Matušić. Here you go, colleague Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61053	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Inaccurately, counterpart Milanovic said that someone from the HDZ club was pointing at us here, cursing. Five times he said cursing, cursing. That's not true, no one sweared. He didn't swear, a colleague called him a fool, but it's not a curse.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61054	Let's not do that to each other because it just shows that we're losing patience, and we haven't started the first individual discussion yet. Before we begin with it another correction of the quote, distinguished colleague Josip Djakic. Here you go, colleague Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61055	Mr. Vice President, so I will also look back on the incorrect quote of counterpart Milanovic, where he claimed that someone from HDZ benches swears in this home. There was no swearing, there was an insult, an insult that was caused by a reaction to a roll call because of the apartment when a colleague Kunst called him a fool and it was an insult, not a curse. So we can't keep fooling the public into cursing someone from these benches. Yeah, it was an insult, but it wasn't a curse.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61056	All right, well, it's nice and sin to admit and repent. We're on our way to an individual debate. First, a distinguished colleague, Vladimir Seks, vice president of the Parliament, signed up. Mr. Shakespeare, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61057	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honourable members of the Government. I address you in the Croatian Parliament, in the Croatian Assembly by the highest representative body of Croatian citizens and citizens, but as a sort of grand jury, a jury facing a political trial. I am speaking not as the defender of the Prime Minister of Jadranka Kosor, because she doesn't need a defender or a defense or a government needs a defense, but I am speaking to... the property as one witness of truth in the process, the political process of the accused and convicted Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor has been indicted and found guilty of three counts of the Social Democratic Party indictment. The three counts of the Social Democratic Party were presented in written form by the SDP and partners' Club of Representatives and, on several occasions, by the president of the Social Democratic Party and the president of the SDP Representatives' Club. There's been an indictment, but there's also a verdict. That argument of the verdict and the indictments we heard all in the Croatian public, we heard in this assembly that the verdict had already been made. Prosecutors and judges led by the Social Democratic Party and its president, Zoran Milanovic, were accused and sentenced by Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor of the crime of a counter-revolutional attack on the authorities of workers and citizens and the social and legal order described in paragraph 100 of the Social Democratic Party's criminal manifesto and condemned him to lose confidence. The verdict of the Social Democratic Party of the Prime Ministers is condemning you to a loss of trust. Prosecutors and judges of the Social Democratic Party have not carried out the evidence procedure.../Laughter./... along which they would determine the responsibility of the government and the guilt of the Prime Minister of Jadranka Kosor. The court sees the party's excessive evidence procedure as falling under the Social Democratic Party's law, which is enough to blame and condemn the party's claim that the defendant, Jadranka Kosor, is responsible and guilty. The court of the party, as we hear, rejects, in the light of the verdict, all evidence that strongly disproves and collapses into dust and ashes as a false accusation and a verdict by Jadranka Kosor. I speak to the Croatian Parliament and claim that Jadranka Kosor is not guilty and is not responsible for any point of the indictment because, even before this particular court of the public in the Croatian Parliament, it has already been established and proved in the present part of this proof procedure that she has led a responsible policy in the context of the crisis that protects the standard of living of citizens, especially pensioners, those with small salaries, Croatian defenders, births, children and the most vulnerable socially vulnerable categories. Jadranka Kosor is not guilty and is not responsible because she has also been found to be timely and responsible as the Prime Minister for reducing consumption and taking a number of anti-recession measures and precisely well-infrastructured economic and financial credibility in the international market. Jadranka Kosor is not guilty, is not responsible for this point of the indictment and judgment because she implements anti-recession policy in a systematic way, working on structural reforms and accomplishing the Programme of Economic Recovery and turning trends into positive movements and growth. Jadranka Kosor is not guilty, she is not responsible because she has been found to be the Prime Minister as the most consistent and successful anti-corruption and organised crime fighter with a zero degree of tolerance towards corruption and with the password "no one is untouchable". In particular, it has been proven that only mere slander and politics is the accusation that HDZ is in a state of internal conflict. It has been shown that it is a paranoia when it is imputed to the government, the Prime Ministers that the government is acting in the field of fear, the atmosphere of fear, anxiety, mistrust, and that it is false as a head and claim that the possibility of any normal government action has been blocked. Therefore, the indictment and verdict of the Social Democratic Party have been brought down and it has been found that Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor and the Government are implementing a responsible policy aimed at ensuring further social and economic development. All actions and activities carried out are aimed at achieving three key objectives of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, namely overall social and economic recovery and the development of the fight against corruption and organised crime and the conclusion of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. I propose that the Social Democratic Party's indictment and verdict against the Prime Minister of Jadranka Kosor be dismissed as a miserable attempt to revive a long-affiliate and to waste the history of the rejected model of installation of political processes and to resolve any guilt and responsibilities and reject the request for mistrust to the Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. So, show her confidence in continuing responsible policies in the service of citizens and the general good. And finally, according to you, according to the SDP, Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor is already irrevocably sentenced to political death and only the open execution of the most severe death penalty. The execution should take place today or tomorrow at this session, but at this session today or tomorrow there will be another execution, there will be one execution of one failure and unsuitable, irresponsible attempt to overthrow the government and Prime Minister of Jadranka Kosor. So it'll all end up on one miserable, miserable, political attempt. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61058	Thank you. Now, in the order of this number of tables that we have seen, let me give my word first to distinguished colleague Antun Vujic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61059	Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, I refer to Article 214 of the paragraph which states that you are obliged to give notice to one who, by his conduct, deviates from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. I wouldn't have answered this breach of the Rules of Procedure if it weren't for Vice President of the Parliament Mr. Shakespeare. This is how he spoke of replacing this legitimate right here to seek the responsibility of the government with the judge, the charge of making charges and convictions, the appeal to article 100 of the Penal Code, it's known which one he meant, the identification of this party in the way that he did it, Mr. Shacks, somehow of you I wouldn't have hoped. So you're someone who's been here a long time in this House together and you've been carrying with me a lot longer responsibility and now you've done something you can't really be proud of. I'm sorry to have to tell you this is not right the way you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61060	Each of us chooses the way of his step, within the theme. He hasn't strayed from the subject. He experienced it in his own way, and that's his right, and I also believe that it will be pointed out where he thinks he's right, some think it's exactly something else because we have a series of applications for corrections, so we're going to go in line. First of all, she is a respected colleague, Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61061	Thank you very much. Col. Seks mentioned the indictment and the verdict and the court of the party several times, later specify the Social Democratic Party now under discussion in parliament. I'll correct the facts. Here's a proposal to launch a trust issue for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Jadranka Kosor. Three reasons and an explanation of this proposal. And now I'm actually wondering, Mr. Vice President, and I don't think the vast majority of my colleagues have even figured out what you're talking about. You know, you probably know very well what you said, I assume the Prime Minister understands what you were talking about because you were members of that party that used to reckon, accuse and judge. We're not. We find that very, very difficult to understand. But we're starting to understand because we see that by the same method you're counting on each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61062	Thank you. Dino Kozlevac, fellow representative please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61063	Dear Vice President, I must say I'm uncomfortable correcting the wrong assumption. I couldn't either, I mean believe what we heard. But I put it in the context of a government vice president's performance and I would correct a series of incorrect allegations, but only one. I'd like to remind you that there are no prosecutors here, no lawsuits, no trial. This room is not a courtroom, it is a Croatian Parliament. We're MPs. These are colleagues from the Croatian government, not the process, but a legitimate democratic right in the Croatian Parliament to discuss a subject he considers to be current. Therefore, I hope also in this performance Mr. Vice-President of the Government would not have acted in the manner of large state-run historical prosecutors in past systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61064	Dear colleague of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61065	I will repeat what my colleague Kozlevac said, that this is not about the process in the House, but about the legitimate right of the club representatives or individual representatives. And what I still want to add, I find embarrassing, embarrassing, this way of speaking in the House. And now I really understand why there was a manipulation of the applications in which you obviously participated in cooperation with the Vice-President of the Assembly, or the HDZ Club. And I stand by that you have manipulated today's applications for a parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61066	Madam representative, don't tell the truth. That's why I said it the way I told you because I want to remain dignified and speak in a nice way. When you're accusing someone, and you prove in your own statement that you don't need proof, that you know how to condemn them immediately. I don't take applications, I don't collect them, I don't sign them, I don't put them in, I just write them down, I'm just putting them in order, I'm giving them the word, you know. A further respected colleague, Dragica Zgrebec, rectification of the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61067	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect that this initiative on the vote on mistrust is the president of the Croatian government's indictment and verdict of the Social Democratic Party, or party, as counterpart Seks said. This is a legitimate proposal from the MPs, 58 MPs who are in accordance with Article 116 of our Constitution, which says that at least one-fifth of the MPs in the Croatian Parliament can raise a question of trust to the Prime Minister, either to the individual member or to the government as a whole. The same is true of Article 113 of our Rules of Procedure. So we acted according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, and in his inspired speech, Shaks denied the right for 58 MPs to have an initiative here based on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, of course as a great Democrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61068	Thank you very much. It is obvious that it can have an initiative and the initiative has been accepted, and the debate is open and let's discuss it further, but before that, let's correct the allegations. Dear colleague Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61069	Thank you. The incorrect claim by counterpart Seksa, I quote in the parliament, is a political trial, a political process and somewhere else in his speech that it is a mounted political process. I must say honestly that I am sorry, I am sorry that my colleague Shex said this, as my political rival, and a man that I have believed so much more in this way than he has given to show by such an act, which basically destroys the essence of democracy, pluralism and tolerance within the legitimate right of the opposition or anyone to question the question of trust in their government, or prime minister, or prime minister, or anyone. This way, it's either panic-stricken fear or someone I know of quasi-Kerempuh style, failed satire, I have no idea what it is, but it's de facto a terrible political downturn in Croatia, whether it's about Vice President of the Parliament, whether it's about Shakespeare, who is not anyone, and I sincerely feel sorry for him.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61070	You don't have to complain to him, I agree, because he always knows how to defend himself. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Vice-President of the Parliament and representative Vladimir Seks. 209th, paragraph 2. I am not contesting your right to the SDP to raise the question of trust among the Prime Ministers. I didn't challenge that at all. Don't knock on the wrong door. I have indicated in only one specific way how and which methodology this non-confidential voting procedure was initiated. Take a look at this non-confidential request. It's the same as, it's the same as the charge and the conviction. The Prime Minister is responsible, responsible, responsible, responsible. It's identical, it's just... Reprinted one charge, one conviction. [[The noise in the hall, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61072	I'm a colleague of Shex's.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61073	You need to put this content in the legal hand, so you'll get one indictment and one verdict.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61074	Comrade Shex, anyone who submits a submission, chooses both form and letter and size and size content, so let's not dispute that. We've got eight replicas, the first respected colleague, Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61075	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear representative of fellow Shex. I am truly sad that a man who is 20 years old in the Croatian Parliament can execute a trial of opposition in the Croatian Parliament. This disqualification of the opposition is indeed contrary to the Constitution. The disqualification of the opposition, which, in accordance with the Constitution, requires on behalf of citizens to assess the government's work and on the basis of that assessment that trust or mistrust to the Government, is a direct attack on the Constitution itself. I'm at the Constitution. Since the Constitution, my colleagues quoted here, and I will repeat it for Croatian citizens, in article 115, the government is responsible for the Croatian Parliament. Since the parliamentary majority is not Dr. Evey, and dear Adriatic, has never refused or supervised anything, it is the duty of the opposition to question on behalf of the citizens the government's work and assess and seek her trust or mistrust. By disqualifying the work of the opposition, I repeat, my fellow Shexes with great experience, you should not have attacked democracy. I'm sorry you did that. Your responsibility is far greater than those who have now entered the Parliament. You know what it means to develop democracy and trust in Croatian, representatives of citizens in this House. We are also representatives of the citizens of this country and with our responsibility we are trying to raise the whole Parliament, and you wanted to disqualify it, that is proof that the fact is less than you should have. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61076	Thank you. Replication response, fellow Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61077	I didn't want to disqualify you, I was merely telling the truth about your actions. In your explanation of the request to launch trust, the Prime Minister made the most difficult accusations, the most serious slanders, the most serious insults to the Croatian Democratic Union, at the expense of the government, at the expense of the Prime Minister. Have We forgotten that? Would you like to be reminded of what you wrote in your explanation, where you specifically marked the Croatian Democratic Community as the source of all evils, and you, Mr Jovanovic, and you too, Mr Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61078	Let's not call each other names. Let's answer them.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61079	What is the top of the HDZ you mark me as the top of the HDZ as an organization in criminal terms. What's that? That's what you write in this pamphlet of yours called the government's trust. All of a sudden, we're gonna play nice, and we're gonna forget what you wrote here in context. And now you're going to say that I want to disqualify you. I don't want to disqualify you, but you've disqualified yourself from the SDP with this papyrus.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61080	Thank you. We still have a replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61081	Mr. Seks, with this step of yours, you attacked directly the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Rules of Procedure, as well as by the recent research of over 50% of Croatian citizens who want to be discussed in this way in the Assembly. And now, suddenly, Mr. Vladimir Shakespeare doesn't want to. It is more important than 50% of Croatian citizens who want to discuss it in the Croatian Parliament, to hear the voice of the opposition and to discuss whether or not the situation in Croatia is catastrophic or not. That's what the citizens want, that's what the opposition wants, but they don't want HDZ and Vladimir Seks, and that's why he allows himself to discredit the opposition in this way. That it is not true, Mr. Seks, that in Croatia 90,000 people lost their jobs in a year, that GDP fell in 2 years 8%, that there is no indication of any perspective of this country, that crime and corruption on all sides – all this is not true, that you say, of course they have proved in this assembly and colleagues Kunst, Matusic, Djakic I see there with an air-conditioned head and, of course, in front of the HDZ Club, the man who is most trusted in Croatia by Andrija Hebrang. That's what you proved, and now you've attacked the opposition as if it had no right to question how the government works. It's a shame you made Mr. Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61082	Replication response, fellow Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61083	I've been hoping for a moment that you learned something from the elementary norms of the Rules of Procedure, but it was for nothing my hope was. I didn't attack the constitutional order, I didn't disqualify or attack the opposition I just qualified her attempt and a reasoned attempt to bring down the Prime Minister and the Government. That's what I just did. I don't challenge you, nor do I challenge you, nor do I want the debate not to be held, but the debate is under way. We've accepted that debate and it will be conducted. So, we to you, I'm not contesting your argument, so listen carefully. I have merely qualified with the political weight of your reasons and allegations and your assessment and I repeat that claim and the assessment that anyone who reads this submission will read it as an indictment and as a verdict where it is disqualified in advance and in the most difficult way qualified as a criminal organisation of the HDZ and Government summits. You won't call us criminals or criminal peaks in any other way. That's embarrassing of you SDP. It is embarrassing of that part of the opposition that one political party that is the most responsible and responsible for establishing a free, democratic Croatia to mark it, its top, to mark it with a criminal organisation. It's a shame on you! It's a blow to the constitutional order!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61084	Let's calm down a little passion and move on to the replica. Dear colleague Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61085	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have to say that this grotesque play played here in this assembly by Vice President Shakespeare and that's why he got a round of applause from part of the assembly really is the saddest thing that's happened in this House. Vice-President Seks struck both the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, defending the opposition to show the citizens of Croatia here once again that we are elected as representatives of Croatian citizens, that this Parliament has chosen a government that corresponds to this Parliament. That this House is not a pendant of the government and a voting machine that unspeakably raises its hands to what comes from the government. Mr. Seks, with his play and the applause you received, you only confirmed how much our request for a vote of no confidence Jadranka Kosor is needed at this time in Croatia because you are simply no longer able to manage your own party, let alone this country. Croatian citizens demand responsibility from politicians, and politicians cannot behave responsibly if they fake the order of speakers you did today in the Assembly. As you pressured the Constitutional Court to reject the opinion of 800 Croatian citizens. You have disgraced democracy in Croatia with your behaviour today and this is the saddest day of this House, not what Hebrang spoke of a few days ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61086	Let's let go of the grief, but let's give it a chance to respond to the replica. I'm a colleague of Shex's.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61087	How many times does it take for you to tell a lie? I'm going to tell a slight lie that I'm defending and that I want to stop and not allow discussion of the government's trust? Well, she's going on. I'm just qualified to take down the government. You have to tell the difference. I'm teaching you to tell the difference. That no one here defends themselves, at least me to argue. And secondly, your qualification again is that I acted on the Constitutional Court to make the decision he made, which is exactly one proof of how you in a particularly embarrassing way want to act according to the constitutional order. We have been listening to stories and assessments these days and these weeks, where you declare the government, the top of the HDZ thousands and thousands of HDZ members, a criminal mile, a criminal gang, a criminal criminal criminal organisation. Well then you reach out to it in a political sense of the word. There's no political or non-political sense of words. If someone is the criminal peak of a criminal pyramid and a criminal organization, then he's a criminal. You have offended and re-insulted the entire Croatian democratic community, you are insulting the vast part of the Croatian Parliament, you are insulting thousands and thousands and hundreds of thousands of those who have trusted HDZ. And that is why this is no shameful play that I have staged, but you, Mr. Jovanovic, are yourself, you are a disgrace to both the SDP and Croatia and Croatian political life.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61088	Always the closing words are you. There's still a lot of replicas, and we'll end up talking about measures. A colleague of Arsen Bauk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61089	Mr. Vice President. At the beginning of your presentation, you were legitimateized as a witness. You weren't a witness. What you read was an explanation of the verdict and you stood up as a judge. You were a witness when you walked around Mark's square with a New TV reporter and apologized to everyone for your unspeakableness. Then you were a witness and you were a witness to the penitent. And your testimony has not otherwise been celebrated, and you have not declared us in the fifth column as in any other testimony. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61090	The answer to my colleague Shakespeare's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61091	Comrade Bauk, the Supreme Court of Croatia has determined that my testimony to which you are alluding was credible and true. And your present testimony is a dirty demation and an apparent attempt to disqualify me as an unworthy witness. In this debate, I said that I wanted to perform not as the defender of the Prime Minister, but as a sui generis witness of the truth in the political process that once again, if you can read a little between the lines, everyone will understand it and realize that it is not a plastic process but that it is a political process that is taking place here. There is little need to understand figurative expressions, not literally and literally to understand something.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61092	Thank you. Representative Zvonimir Mrsjsic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61093	Mr. Seks, you have today declared a political document a indictment, and a legitimate way of asking for the government's mistrust according to Article 113 of our Rules of Procedure, you have called it "a long-deposited model of history". You have declared article 113. by way of a long-lost model to a historical dump. You've been acting like a judge here today, and we're calling for something else here. We would like what most Croatian citizens want to return to the citizens and the citizens to decide whether Mrs. Kosor and the government did well or not. Not that the court, the Constitutional Court, or the Shex court, is much more important today than any other court in the Republic of Croatia. We ask that the government return to the citizens and that the citizens make a decision. You shot at the heart of democracy when you challenged the citizens of the right to a referendum, today you made an additional gap in the heart of democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61094	The answer to the replica of Vice President Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61095	I didn't break into the heart of democracy, but I may have made a gap in the heart of a late revolution. I may have done it, I may have done it, and I did it well, so you should take care of the young fellow. And as for this attempt of yours again where you declare me to be the Constitutional Court and that I am the most responsible, so the Croatian Parliament made a decision that allowed the Constitutional Court to assess whether they were fulfilled or not to fulfil the assumptions for calling the referendum. You now, in an indirect manner, want the same thing that some anarchists and destroyers want, which is that all institutions need to be disavowed, broken, and the Constitutional Court should be. You're on the trail of the same ones who're laminate in the suspension of the Constitutional Court. It will be the same, and you will remember with them how some will laminate over the abolition of the Parliament if they do not like parliamentary decisions. Government, any institution of government. So think about it when you bow down and go to... those who would destroy all state and social institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61096	Replica esteemed colleague Ranko Ostojić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61097	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I understand your urge possibly to be a prosecutor, judge or the like, probably from the experience you have, but I must remind you that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia defines what the Assembly, which are its powers, is also necessary to respect the trio of the authorities. Therefore, you can't write any charges here, and you can't even caricate the court's authority. The fact that you wrote the characters may be the letter or the eventual adoption of a constitutional court complaint which was then followed by such a possible political indictment. But I'll go back to what's more important. I agree with all those colleagues who say that the legitimate requirement is not on the street, not anywhere else but here in the Croatian Parliament we treat the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and not that we have the right, but it is our obligation to determine the responsibility of the Croatian Government, meaning both its president and anyone else. Also, Mr. Shakespeare, we were witnessing earlier that you called a representative here a SDP disgrace. What is written in the Rules of Procedure, and you will normally not get a warning, you have no right to do so, you have no right to insult other MPs. And when any of us here have the right to speak and can't because like you said before, he can't be responsible for that thing. Let me freely express what we think is what we should say here in the Croatian Parliament, so how much you didn't like it we can say. And I also have to tell you that we have the right to speak very highly of the government's mistrust, for the reason that you don't want to list, vice president, treasurer, director, member of the presidency, coordinator for Australia-New Zealand, so do you see how many, in fact, those persons who are independent judicial bodies, not SDP representatives, say they are accused and with serious suspicion of corruption. That's what this is about. And we have a right to talk about it, and you can't shut us up in any way.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61098	The answer to Vladimir Shakespeare's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61099	It is just amazing that it is as Mladen Delic would say, "Oh my people, is it possible" that you too, like many of your colleagues, that I challenge the right and that I advocate not to speak in the Croatian Assembly about the responsibility of the Prime Minister and the Government. Well, that's what I never said or thought to say, nor did any of us speak from the ruling coalition. However, full of support for you to discuss the responsibility of the Prime Minister and the Government. And secondly, let's not measure ourselves with a double archaic. You just said that I called Agent Jovanovic a disgrace, and you forget what he called me before that, that he called my performance a shame, a disgrace. In other words, he also called me a disgrace, therefore, in the same words. So let's not see that Bible thorn in our brother's eye, not see any further. And thank you for these lessons that you taught me that the division of power is by the Constitution, that there is a trio of power. Otherwise, the Constitutional Court does not fall under the authority's trinity. That's all. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61100	Let's not throw away and stay away from the Rules of Procedure. It is the turn for the replica, a distinguished colleague, Marija Lugaric, signed up. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61101	Comrade Shakespeare, you've been in your debate, which is not the first time, but now it may be the most extraordinary, but it's completely executed. You've forgotten what time you're in, and you've forgotten what function you're in. I remind you, in the 21st century, you are now neither a lawyer nor a judge nor a prosecutor, but you are a representative of the Croatian Parliament in which you took an oath. And indeed, fellow Shakespeare, you can hardly manage both the party and the state when you have difficulty ruling yourself at all. ... /The noise in the hall./... I, my colleague Shakespeare, believed and I hoped that the vocabulary and procedures that you reminisce here in the Croatian Parliament belonged to some past time. You said it yourself, the robbers of the past. And I was hoping that things that we younger people don't know from personal experience you senior representatives and the old representatives obviously know very well that you won't dare reminisce them in the 21st century in the Croatian Parliament. And please don't teach us anything because there's nothing good you can teach us. And Mr. Shakespeare, as a representative in the Croatian Parliament who I swore to the Constitution, I am ashamed of what you said and how you said here in the Croatian Parliament and it is not an honor for you. And by the way, with defenders like you, Mrs. Kosor, they don't need political opponents or enemies.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61102	Replication response, Vice President of Parliament Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61103	... I was anxious to hear your words. [[Specially enabled.]] So I'm moved honestly by a teaching discourse where a young colleague warns me of basic political matters. You should learn, indeed, that's why I was saying this for you because you missed a good part of the history and learning section of history, which is why you speak out of the ignorance and ignorance of the recent Croatian history. I forgive you because ignorance always needs to be forgiven. Ignorance and other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61104	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Dear colleague Josip Djakic is next. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, this proposal to launch a trust issue has been unprofessionally created by the Presidents of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is full of lies, lies and deceptions, and charges that significantly affect even the judicial authority and the state's attorney, thus putting pressure on all state institutions that have seriously been caught in the fight against corruption and crime of every kind. And Mrs. Jadranka Kosor has strongly opened up the area of fight against corruption and without distinction to whom investigations or reconnaissances or any actions have worked or led, to the left or right, to the red or blue, which is not the case in your party, because certainly every attempt to remove suspicions of some unholy acts raises great heifers and dust as there is no corruption and crime in your ranks. And certainly some proven actions and convictions speak of them being and still having them. And in any case this attempt by this unprofessional and accusing act that you have filed with the Croatian Parliament on trust, Mr. President Kosor will fall into the water as it is already clearly and well known. This is why the European Commission, which believes that Jadranka Kosor is the only real guarantee of continuing the anti-corruption campaign. My answer to this very bad article is not politics but naked facts that talk about all the activities carried out in the Economic Recovery Programme that are determined and that are under way. So through this programme that you have received all together it is clear that 239 legal norms, conclusions, regulations and activities have been implemented, that 180 of those who are ongoing and certainly all talk about the glorious economic recovery and shifts that are small, but are important and will certainly produce fruit as seen. Surely these measures that have been taken and which are happening will be a complete success with the escalating crisis and will certainly also make economic recovery real and thorough. My position is unequivocal in a segment that is defined as a harmless and uncompromising fight against corruption at all levels and regardless... If you want, I'll hang up. Mr. Vice President, I'm really going to give up further exposure...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61106	Don't give up, I'm the same with you. Here you go, Mr. Representative. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61107	So, no matter what they're trying to darken up, I want to say that I am absolutely on the trail of a uncompromising fight against corruption at all levels and regardless of the party belonging of the persons who have committed certain corrupt activities. In particular, the European Commission's assessment of the progress made in the fight against corruption, the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy and the associated action plan in the field of improving the legal framework for the fight against corruption is of utmost importance and particular importance to the European Commission's assessment of the progress made in the fight against corruption, the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy and the related action plan in the field of improving the legal framework for the fight against corruption, to the processing of certain actors in corruption affairs. For Croatia, it is crucial not to diminish the views and opinions of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, what European policy thinks about fighting corruption, the political public of Europe and their assessments are positive and encouraging, which solves the most important political recognition for the Republic of Croatia, and this is whether or not they will be a full member of the European Union in the coming period next year. The effectiveness of the judiciary, the Government and the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia have seen great progress in order to reduce backlogs in unresolved cases in courts, in particular with regard to old civil and criminal cases and decisions, solutions and enforcement. Appropriate legal and organisational measures shall be taken to prevent unfair infringements in court cases including the introduction of new methods of enforcement of judicial decisions in order to ensure that they are carried out within a reasonable period of time. On 31 December 2004, there were a total of one million and 640365, and on 31 December 2009, in all courts there were 795722 or a reduction experienced in these cases by 51.49%. By 31 June 2010, the total number of outstanding cases in all courts was 10.6%. The highest percentage is the declines in the High Criminal Court or 24.1%, and infraction courts 19%. Also, municipal courts have reduced the number of pending cases by 10.3%. A stalemate in negotiations that would take place by not voting with the Prime Ministers and the Government as a whole would certainly cause significant financial damage, but also in half a year would certainly prevent the use of European funds but would also cause damages of one and a half billion euros. It would certainly withdraw the accession of the European Union and the conclusion of the negotiations for six months, and that is what is most important in the evaluation of European politicians who speak clearly about what is Croatia's goal and when it can fulfil all its obligations. Of course, it is also important to stress that the discovery of those items in drawers that have waited for many years for either the state's attorneys or courts is certainly one of the European norms and standards defined by the Anti-Corruption Plan. I would like to say that Europe certainly expects the Republic of Croatia but not with the fall of the Government, not with a delay in the implementation of all these measures that are defined, not in the absence of legal norms and non-implementation of the same ones, not in the non-implementation of the action plan and not with such charges coming to the Croatian Parliament by opposition, which says that the Croatian government is guilty of killing Ivan Hodak, and of killing Pukanic and his colleague, and this is all written in this text, which says that the mistrust of the Prime Ministers of the Republic of Croatia should be voted upon. I would certainly like to say that Brussels is saying that both the prime minister and the early elections would be a major and objective obstacle to our approach and our entry into the European Union and therefore absolutely unnecessary early elections, and we remain absolutely unnecessarily with the support of the Prime Minister and the Government as a whole and to conclude negotiations to introduce Croatia into the European Union in order to sign a pre-accession contract, in order to end first of all with chapters that are very important, which is one of the most important chapters 23. And I believe that before we finish Chapter 23, there will be no selective approaches as you wish. And you want to do everything to avoid touching all those affairs that came out of your ranks. Therefore, we certainly insist on supporting both the Government and all the apparatus that the Government has, both the ministries and the state's attorneys and the police, in order to solve as soon as possible those unknowns that come in the purchase of fire trucks in the markets in Rijeka, in the one in Koprivnica and all those affairs that come from your ranks there is certainly the same good part of the corruption chain to be contained and to be called publicly. Therefore, the support of the Presidents of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in further efforts to fight clearly, unequivocally against all types of corruption and crime in all fields and in all rows and red and blue and to be equal to the criterion and criteria for all.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61108	Thank you. Let us first correct in the opinion of colleagues and fellow representatives of incorrect allegations. First of all, dear colleague Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61109	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague, Djakic, here, showed this impressive script of the Report on the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme's implementation plan, said that all the measures that have been entered and implemented here would lead to economic recovery. Mr Djakić is not true, because here is an example I will tell you this law, the adoption of a new Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development, which was adopted in June 2010. On this basis, the support law for these cattle that were in 2010 of 284 million will next year be 148 million. Support for milk that was in 2010. 633 million will be reduced to 265 million, and breeding pigs from this year 96 million to 32 million. Therefore, I do not believe this will lead to Croatia's recovery of agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61110	From what I hear, Djakic is neither about pigs nor milk. But good. Dear colleague Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61111	It is incorrect that a colleague claimed that the departure of this government had stopped the use of EU funds. As if you hadn't read the report as to how much Croatia used these pre-accession EU funds. Many programs have failed because Croatia did not use them, at the level of the state and units of many local self-government, but it is quite clear why you did not use it as needed. Not so much as you don't know, it's clear, but you can hire experts who know that. And you know it. However, you know well that the cost of each pfening is controlled, but that doesn't suit you. You can't go there, and you like to work on the principle of half a drink, half a stick gives.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61112	And I have nothing to say, but let's act reasonablely. The correction of the allegations continues to be reported by the esteemed colleague Heffer Goran. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61113	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Djakic is listing the so-called The SDP affair said the one in Koprivnica. Mr. Djakic Podravka is your affair. Mr. Polancec is yours, and of course by that centrifugal force you throw away and all the people who get wet, but I am aware that you would try to distribute it now and all your affairs to all the other parties, but that 6 parties would not be able to distribute it. So don't give what's yours to share with others. Keep it to yourself until the end, and you'll eventually see where it's all gone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61114	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas now. First of all, he's a respected colleague of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61115	Thank you very much. Mr. Djakic, in his presentation, which I followed closely, I had to work very hard to catch everything he said, but I succeeded. You talked about justice, then stopping Croatia from joining the European Union if early elections occur. I do not know why this would be true, if the Czech Republic chaired the European Union while the elections were outstanding for Parliament, means one example that is comparative, there is no reason why Croatia should not enter the extraordinary elections and join the most normal European Union. And you said, in the end, that the elections do not need Croatia from Brussels. Well, these people from Brussels don't live in Croatia. Your problem and the problem of HDZ, but the problem of all Croatian citizens is that most citizens of the Republic of Croatia want extraordinary elections. They know they live badly. You cannot explain this to them in any way, and I have raised the line so that you can try to tell these Croatian citizens once again that they are actually living well, because that makes you only benefit the SDP and you are making it important to what we are doing, because you Mr. Djakic cannot convince anyone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61116	You don't have to give him your word, I'm invited to it. And since he signed up, I give you my word for reply to the replica. Comrade Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. It is difficult to convince those who have already ruled on certain matters. Namely, your desire to hide what's happening in your ranks, what you've been doing, is certainly bigger than anything. I didn't say in the end that early elections and the corruption plan would be... in at least six months, as would be the use of funds, as would be all those positive shifts that occur. [[You don't understand.]] That's not what I'm saying. That's what the Europeans say. Here's what they say, early elections and the fall of the HDZ government would cause negotiations with the European Union to stop for at least half a year, and the delay would cause Croatia to run out of money from European funds, which would be a loss of at least one and a half billion euros. That's what I'm talking about. If you were listening. That's not what I made up, this is what you see in a single press that broadcasts events from European levels from Brussels.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61118	Thank you. Next, a colleague called Nenad Stazic. Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61119	You tell counterpart Djakic that it is important for Croatia that the European Union understands and assesses our fight against corruption. That's certainly important, you're right there. But it is far more important than how the European Union assesses it, how our citizens assess it. Here's Transparency International published a corruption perception index in Croatia. He hasn't changed in these year 4.1. He stayed the same. That's what our citizens, our people think of the government's efforts to stop corruption. We've put a request here for trust. The key word is trust. Does this government have trust, and if it has trust? He's got yours. He's got a HDZ rep club. He also has the trust of coalition partners, because they have just come out. But does this government have citizens' trust? Public opinion polls show 49% of citizens want early elections. So when half the population wants early elections, when 800,000 people are looking for referendums, those demands need to be met. Why? So to justify that trust. So if the government does, the HDZ has trust, so let it prove in the elections. So what's the problem? The problem is that there is no trust, what you feel and what you know. And that's why you fight so hard against the referendums, and against the extraordinary elections, and against every chance of the citizens of this country saying what they think of you, in a democratic way.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61120	Replication response, colleague Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61121	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, of course I will answer that indeed the European Union is, and it is against the SDP as well as European powerful men who are clearly looking at the picture of Croatia today, because your picture was 3.9 and today it is 4.1. It's not good enough and it's not good enough, but it's going forward and it's definitely going along with a real step and a better one. But while you stay two months on Brijuni 7 kunas a day, others starve, then it's certainly not a fight against corruption, then it's corruption in your ranks. And whoever made it possible for you and who allowed you, both you and your colleagues and colleagues should surely bear responsibility no matter where it comes from. Do by the president himself. We're not interested. And so it must be for all the same. As a matter of fact, we're interested in those rich friends who loaned the former president I don't know about two and a half million kunas. And that's an interesting question in this Republic of Croatia. Maybe they loaned it to you, too. Maybe they loaned your president money to buy an apartment. Maybe they loaned Jovanovic money to buy an apartment. I don't know. But to look at all the right eyes and experience the right eyes. And when you say that you are righteous, that the rejected applications in Koprivnica can only say the following and I will easily reject the application when the daughter of the lawyer is in town, when the husband of the state attorney is the director of the city company, not the employee, but the director, and when the resorts are sold in Pirovac, wanting to avoid tax to the municipality of Pirovac, which he will likely testify when then the head of the municipality of Pirovac. When a purifier is built and nearly a million euros is blacked out on a purifier in Koprivnica, it's all clean. I don't know who can tolerate it, who doesn't see it, who doesn't analyze it, and here's the Justice Minister, and I'd be looking for inspection supervision in these state attorneys, which is your right to do according to the article. 27. The Law on State Attorneys to control all such intentions where explicit all applications have been rejected and the light of day has never been revived.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61122	Thank you, colleague Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61123	Article 27 allows, Minister, and asks to examine all these possibilities that have allowed such applications to be rejected as they have become obsolete in Rijeka.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61124	Comrade Djakic's time is up. Let's not walk away from the subject. Dear colleague Daniel Mondekar answered the next line. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61125	Thank you very much, Vice President. Col. Djakic, yes, fighting corruption is very important for the closure of Chapter 23 and for us to see in the EU how we fight corruption in Croatia. But I think what is happening now is embarrassingly surprised some HDZ members because many thought that Polancec and let's say the fall of Polancec would be enough to close the story on Chapter 23, while for most of the EU, Polancec is just the beginning. And now they want to see what they're saying nicely in English next up. They want to see where it goes next. They want to see who all these corrupts are, they want to see what went on in the government, who was involved in what was involved. And then when you look at this example of forgiveness today, and we hear today that the thief and the one who steals the eggs and the one who holds the lottery, you get the impression that the sword of justice, or the sword, is the blade of the sword in the fight against corruption, is only going to the head of the one who betrayed HDZ or left HDZ. While those who are still involved in the affairs around HZ, HAC, tunnels and everything else, from the top of the party, and that the rest of them are loyal strangers don't touch them. And believe me, the issue of political corruption will be sharpened more in the Progress Report this year. And it's over now for sure and there will be. So, as far as the elections are concerned and the EU, please, that's none of their business at all. Many members had elections and many of these new members in the last two rounds had elections in the process itself, which are not about the elections in the EU. However, at this point, it is quite clear that the elections would probably bring us a new momentum in the economy and probably a much better fight against corruption because a new floor should increase putting all together to see who was corrupt and what he was doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61126	Thank you. Replica response, MP Djakic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61127	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, of course it's in everyone's interest not to fit on Polancec either, but not on everyone else if there is a reasonable suspicion that they have committed any crime by abuse of authority or position by their functions or whatever. Getting someone or yourself or others to benefit. But we also ask, we insist that it be just for everyone else. For all those who have not been touched, for all those whose accusations have been dropped. For all those who are said to have signed a bus contract with them. If the lack of justification is then it is certainly against the law to justify the possible malfeasances that have occurred, and forgiveness is the legal instrument of obtaining the ability to witness and reveal those highest in the corrupt chain or anything else. Prosperity is the legal option that we have brought to this Croatian Assembly through laws and through instruments used by the State's Attorney's Office and USKOK. And why are you talking and bypassing a reality that's real? You should say once and for all about your actions and your officials and all those money that went through your companies. I'd like to hear what the Public Media was doing? Who was she campaigning for? Who paid for it? Did that work out for the Department of the Interior? Maybe, I don't know. Maybe Mr. Lucin knows better. Is the resort sold to Mesic's nephew in Podrava because two fictitious companies that belong to the same owner, is that fair? That's all I want to talk about. And on one side and on the other, equal legal norms and orientations. That's what we want to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61128	Thank you. We still have two replicas. First of all, fellow MP Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61129	So, you and Djakic have already lied here twice today as to the case of Koprivnica. So allow me to tell you and the other representatives and the people who listen to the facts, and then I will consider it a lie to be a slander. So the police filed a report to the municipal state's attorney's office. Police have decided which municipal state attorney's office will file an application. After six months, the municipal state attorney's office made the motion to dismiss, after which there was tremendous pressure from the police on the judicial officials and defamation of those same officials. And it was asked by the Attorney General to do a review. The chief state attorney made an audit and said everything was done in accordance with the laws and rejected it, he confirmed the rejection of the police report. Therefore, if you trust the State's Attorney's office, then trust him always, not only when it suits you. And a few more facts. The municipal state attorney who made the rejection has two underage children, a male, so it's impossible for me to hire her daughter as a lawyer at City Hall. He's got two underage male children. And secondly, she's divorced. So it's impossible that her husband may be an ex-husband, but not even an ex-boyfriend, employed by the City Communal Company. And what you're alluding to is a European project where the president of the board of directors is Mr. Ivica Kirin, and if someone hired someone, then Ivica Kirin hired them. Therefore, I beg you from this day forward, from these facts when you lie, I shall consider it a slander. And believe that there is no such thing as a reasonable doubt that the police had rejected, there is no "case of Koprivnica" and a case of sale of real estate in Pirovac. The last police institution, municipal state's attorney's office and audits, chief state's attorney's office. All this work you're doing is just doing and only to be slandered by me and the municipal state's attorney or the county state's attorney. And I repeat to you no matter what is said here today that a parliamentary representative can say and do what he wants, the crime is coerced against a judicial officer. What you're doing to the state's attorney's office is forcing a judicial officer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61130	Thank you. Reply to the replica of counterpart Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61131	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I mean, here's how I force it on judicial officials. I know they're getting ink out of them, just because I doubt the objectivity of the procedures they've done. And I'm talking about it loud and clear here in the assembly room where the place is just like you talk a lot of times and as you've spoken many times and called it. I said it, and I'll repeat that the two companies that were the self-porters who bought it from the same owner are fictitious with the telephone stations that the secretaries were answering and they had nothing else. If you got from Podravka it at a good price to arrange for the town of Koprivnica to find it rather than resell. In this it is a clean thing and clear, for every little child, and not for one normal man today in the Croatian Parliament. And that's why I'm saying that I doubt it was friendship after all and out of friendship. As it was in Gorica probably, as it was old in Rijeka probably. And that's why I'm ready for any responsibility, that's why I'm getting up, that's why I'm talking. And I'm ready for what I'm saying about your purifier, that consulting works have been paid almost a million euros in Koprivnica. Here I can show it to everyone. These are consulting works worth a million euros in Koprivnica for the making of purifiers. If that's clean then it's really good for you, you've cleaned up well.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61132	I've seen a report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's your colleague Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61133	Therefore, I will again refer to Article 7 which is not talking about the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission but about the oath of the MP, which says that the MP must act in accordance with the Constitution and the law. You again, Mr. Djakic, deliberately and deliberately state the lie. You're lying. And whoever's lying knows what he's doing yet. And apparently when someone is with you very often they fall down the stairs. So, please, I've given you the facts. What you're doing isn't just slandering me, this is an attack directly on the State's Attorney's Office and it's brought its own rightful word, municipal and reviewing the attorney general. You're dealing with their rejection. They said everything was done in accordance with the law, and since it was political good or bad, they say the two choices I went out on unlike you. On one, I got 72, and on the other, 75% support for the people of Koprivnica. So, politically they said it was okay, and the state's attorney said it was all in accordance with the law. You're putting direct pressure on a state's attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61134	Thank you, colleague Mršić. Col. Djakic's injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61135	Mr. Vice President, Article 209 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure and you should have interrupted Mr. Mršić and taken his word from him since he was not talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, he did not specify an article concerning any performance. And I have to say that his repeating that I'm pressuring absolutely nowhere stands, that I'm lying also doesn't stand. I just doubt it. To that I have the right, it is my democratic right in this assembly to say what bothers me and what stings my eyes. This is pressure on the judiciary, this is a trial without a court of law. That's what you did. In this pamphlet that you've given as a submission to question the trust of the Prime Minister. That's the pressure on the judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61136	Thank you, colleague Djakic. We have another replica reported. Dear colleague of Parliament Milanka Opačić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61137	So, listening to all this so far, some replicas of my colleagues and your colleague, Djakic, I was really thinking about whether to tell you anything in the replica, because obviously you don't understand or hear any arguments. You have your mantra, you simply choose to accuse, muddle and have double criteria. You could have told the state's attorney here that she was someone who took some kind of bribery and corruption, so you accused the woman here, now you've made some mistakes. You've been talking about things that the State's Attorney's Office has rejected all day, and it's really worrying when someone who's a parliamentary representative who's given a certain oath here and who would have to respect certain institutions of this country, it's really worrying that you're still systematically repeating things that you know the state's attorney has rejected. From Viktor Lenco, from Dubrovnik hotels, from the case of Koprivnica, from the case of Velika Gorica. And for what the State's Attorney's Office is doing right now, which is exactly what you're talking about intensively, like I don't know fire trucks or anything, by which I don't know which times my colleague Djakic. We're just asking that as soon as possible before the investigation is carried out. If there are elements for criminal charges to be lifted, let them be processed, because it is very important for us in the SDP to know if someone has done something by name and by name. This way we're all just as dirty. And we're not all equally dishonest and we weren't all involved in the theft. I know it's a lot easier to talk about affairs, and I wish you and most of the people around here were the kind of people who've been hitting on things that I've been... just dirtying up the political auditorium of those who've been watching this together today, that we've talked about how to solve 33 billion indifference, no one's paying anyone, Mr. Djakic. Let's talk about how we're going to save jobs, let's talk about how we're going to help the citizens of this country not sink like our Croatian economy is sinking. But it's obviously harder to talk about, much easier to talk about affairs and accuse people of taking bribes and corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61138	And a reply to the replica of his colleague Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61139	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I would probably consider my colleague Opačić if she hadn't been using state space, state money also for 7 kunas and a boat ride to Vangica and enjoying the beautiful beaches. She would be credible in the fight against corruption in her testimony and in everything she says. I have the right to my suspicion, and I have some arguments for that suspicion, and I have a desire to equally expose corruption at all levels and for everyone. What my colleague Mršić is saying about my puppy, and for that, an investigative procedure has been conducted, and for that all the elements have been taken, all witnesses examined and rejected. So you know, you can check. I'm not ashamed. But tell me, what's suspicious about it? If a man got drunk and fell, it could happen to you, but I don't know why I'd be guilty of it. But what I'm talking about is some things that are very important. They are very important and I have them, I have them and I doubt them that there really is something that is not quite transparent, which is not right and what should really be looked at because a million euros is not really a small sum and a small amount. I don't know how I'd trust Miss Wattle who's telling me that she didn't want to ask the question that I'm looking at a tight party or that I want something off the table. I've told you about every corruption, every crime, that I want it exposed, to get rid of it. It comes from either side on the left or on the right, with red and blue, and I said all the things they keep in the drawers to take them out and solve them more once. It's my performance and it's my wish by not calling, I commend the work of a state attorney who's finally got the instruments to work, but let's not just work selectively, let him work objectively, towards everyone equally.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61140	Thank you. A fellow Mršić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61141	Injury of Rules of Procedure 214. I ask you, Vice President, to protect me from the constant meals of Mr. Djakic. So, if there is any doubt Mr. Djakic is talking about then, first of all, he should have given these documents to the state's attorney's office a long time ago. What he does here simply crosses every border of good taste in the Croatian Parliament. And I'm also calling on him to file all the papers he had on him, to file all the papers he had on, for example, the wastewater purifier in Karlovac and everything else. But please, I've made arguments about real estate in Pirovac, and here you don't know how many times you talk about suspicions about building a biological wastewater treatment plant in Koprivnica. And please, after all, and you know how he worked, please protect me from further meals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61142	I was going to train, but he didn't say a million euros, he didn't say any million or where or when or how, and then we don't have to paint it ourselves on this or that. I think we should go back, agree to this subject that we're discussing today, and for this, there's a possibility that if someone has something, there's institutions, there's bodies, they're doing theirs. But we have to respect it when it's done. Unfortunately, I believe all of us, we're in a situation if we like the Constitutional Court's verdict we respect it, and we don't disband it, etc., if it's good... That's not good, then we don't give a good picture and we don't do a good course. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The debate continues with the distinguished colleague Gordana Sobol. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61143	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm going to start my debate with one statement that I'm one of those who signed the motion to vote for mistrust to the Prime Minister, knowing well what I signed, so I read well what I signed and put my signature under it. It is not a manifesto or indictment, but a legitimate request that enables us to submit in the Croatian Parliament. Yes, and I believe that this government headed by President Kosor and that there is no more resistance to be held in power, is responsible for the difficult situation in which Croatia and its citizens are in every respect. After today's debate, but also after the past few days, I am even more convinced that they bear responsibility and that it is time for the elections because of the way they try to explain to the citizens of Croatia why it would not be good or desirable, but it would be devastating for Croatia to now follow the elections and imagine God not to lose those elections. What I consider to be, at the very least, underestimating the common sense of Croatian citizens and I am deeply convinced that when elections come, they will be in a month, two, six months or a year that they will recognize it. A moment ago, my colleague Milanka said that she would love to have us here today talk about the measure of things, talk about the problem of the economy, talk about what every man says in the morning when he goes to work, when he eventually looks at his wallet, and he needs to give the child a allowance, for a gazelle or for a ride. How the Croatian citizen feels at that time and what he thinks about this government and about economic measures or so on. economic measures or the effects of those measures. That famous powerpoint presentation, we all remember, in the end, I'm going to say it like this, it seems to be a slave with a mistake. I would say not only because there turned out to be some kind of wrong date up there typed, and it should not have been, but also because, according to that powerpoint presentation, the measures that some were written were not implemented or implemented. They are not executed because this Croatia is headed by HDZ, because this HDZ is headed by Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor and she has ministers who either do not know or want to do anything with these and such measures, and I will say that I believe that this government has become the main braker of any excessive, necessary measures, but even more reforms needed in this Croatia. Because let's not kid ourselves, the elections are still close, it doesn't matter whether in a month or in a year, so who would a crazy Valda be if at this pre-election time go on, don't put God into some kind of reform, real reforms that would then really be painful as often said by the Prime Minister, but which might result in a certain number of votes being lost. Because unfortunately, when it comes to HDZ, then elections must be won. Let’s talk about the legal proposals that in some ways represented the actual implementation of that so - called expression. the economic measures designed by the Government. We have recently discussed several such legislative proposals and why we believe that this government led by Jadranka Kosor should leave. Just because these slaughter measures were proposed, the laws that voted here with the majority of hand-lifting have no effect, absolutely have no effect. I'll remind you of the famous Employment Mediation Act when we talked about cutting unemployment benefits. And please, when you're unemployed by cutting their fees, you should have kept some jobs. And then 120 million kunas were scheduled to also target those funds towards job conservation. 44,000 kunas spent and 7 jobs saved in this year. We have suggested that unemployment benefits not be touched precisely by the category of unemployed who have become due to the economic crisis. However, it is simply rejected. Or recently we have here the other day you raised your hands to amend the Pension Insurance Act and by emergency procedure almost regardless of what two 1.11. readings have introduced stricter criteria for going to retirement. And that's the part you smell financially by also taking off the unemployment benefits. Furthermore, co-financing for the purchase of cheaper apartments on the market, so here we had opportunities to hear here so many months ago that this is something fantastic, that this will help rebuild construction, that families will decide to buy apartments, and as far as I know, it has been approved in seven months 51 requests to co-finance the purchase of cheaper apartments, but that is why you have easily abolished all the tax reliefs that were involved among other things and the purchase of the first apartment. When we talk about helping companies that are in business, we have already spoken several times in this Assembly Hall about 110 companies waiting seven months to be told whether they have the right to receive assistance because of the difficulties they face. For 7 months, 110 companies are waiting and now we read the other day that a special consultant will be hired to help the government, specifically the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, transport and link to decide whether these companies have the right to do so or not. And until then what will happen to these companies, which will happen to the workers of this government and neither does Jadranka Kosor obviously matter. Namely, fire the workers. So far, 80,000 jobs have been shut down. By the end of the year, another 50,000 are projected. I ask who's their union leader? Who's gonna drill into your chest and say I'm the biggest union boy for you in this country. But to be sarcastic, let's not worry, we took off their fees, when they get to the Employment Service, and we'll retrain them, educate them further, and then we'll send them to the labour market to look for a job they won't actually find. Because the measures allegedly taken by this government do not create new jobs. Who's responsible if you don't rule with Jadranka Kosor which is this country's indifference as high as possible? Who's responsible? Several times today, some 32 billion kunas of outstanding claims have been said. Says the government public companies have settled their debts. Privates say sorry that's not true because we can't collect our claims from the state. Then who's actually responsible for this situation? The government today, in fact, I repeat my behavior in principle, we have entered an almost pre-election year and we are not going to implement real reforms and economic measures, and by the way, we are still trying to convince us that we are actually doing well. You citizens are actually fine. You don't see, but the economic recovery is going, and that's exactly what the government is telling us, where the current president is, and the vice president was also sitting there yesterday, convincing us all together, us and the citizens of Croatia a year and a half ago, what kind of crisis you're talking about, there's no crisis. We've still turned out to be the crowds, please, that we're talking about some difficulties in filling the budget when that budget was under 2 billion kuna, and you see what happened in the meantime. And now you're the same citizen and I, maybe or one of my colleagues should trust that same government that you're gonna be okay, you don't even know how good you are. And the fact that nothing moves better in this country than this government and Jadranka Kosor doesn't care. But I watched you all smile today, the entire government that was here, smiling at the pitches and throwing it all away. It seemed very pleasant and beautiful to you, and I hope that your smile and your irresponsibility were seen by the citizens of this Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61144	Thank you. We have three credentials and one replica. First of all, corrections to the alleged, distinguished colleague Kruno Markovinović. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61145	Well, here, I have to correct the incorrect assumption. Something must be wrong, because a colleague said the government is the main braker implementing the measures, at the same time that there is no measure. So let him decide for himself what is and what is incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61146	Thank you. Comrade Huška, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61147	Thank you. Fellow Sobol said this government has no courage at this pre-election time to implement measures and implement reforms. Well, here's the opposite. I would advise my colleague Sobol to raise in the locker this material that we have received Report oi implementation of the plan for the implementation of the Programme of Economic Recovery, which contains a whole series of measures of reform, activities that have been carried out to this day. It also dynamically all of those activities that will be carried out in the next period. There are a number of unpopular and non-populistic measures that this Croatian government does not run away from, which it is courageous to implement, and citizens know it best, and they will best assess the work of this government when the time comes for regular parliamentary elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61148	Thank you. Correction by colleague Gjurdzica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61149	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A few incorrect allegations have a colleague's exposure. I'll fix only one. According to 259 it is also necessary to correct the inaccuracies that we keep hearing from this menu on the right, which is that the government is socially insensitive. The problem is, fellow Sobol, that when you read something at all, you don't read it to the end, so you say that there was a reduction in unemployment benefits and there were seven jobs secured, and then you hit on 51 apartments and so on. However, when we had a debate about this law all day long, you claimed that these 1600 kn would be spent on the education of workers, i.e. for re-intention of employment. However, it was only in the end that you realized that it was not true that it was a fee for the unemployed, and free of charge you could go to be educated for changing jobs, professions and the like. And just another small data, the tourism ministry and this government invested 30 million kunas, thus educating and training 4 thousand and 900 new employees, making chefs, waiters, receptionists, and one third of them already found a job, and the other third already has it in the next season. So if it's not socially sensitive, it's yours, when you're 10,000 employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61150	Thanks, pal. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61151	The military threw out the police, and you didn't think what their families were going to do, you didn't care at all, so you were.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61152	My colleagues, my colleagues, the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61153	Really socially sensitive.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61154	Comrade twilight, let's respect the weather. We have another report of a replica, colleague Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61155	Fellow Sobol, in the government's statement in today's debate, one of the topics of investment in the Croatian economy or Croatia as a whole, when I analyzed the reasons why it is not there in Croatia, then the culprits declared the opposition, trade unions that did not agree to reduce labour rights, workers because they have too many salaries, there was particularly a fellow Markovinovic on Sunday also very well-designed media. So the citizens of this country are to blame for the state of the country, but the government is not. Whether it was the Minister of Economy or the Head of the Croatian Employers' Association, I am not sure why I can't claim it, but two surveys, one Croatian, one abroad, to answer why there is no foreign investment and investment in Croatia as a whole, the order of inefficient state bureaucracy, tax rates and tax uncertainty, i.e. frequent changes in the tax system, three corruptions, four access to finance capital, availability of capital for investments, and only in fifth place was labour legislation. And he added an example of how an American potential investor left Croatia when they explained to him that he should build a trap station on his own in the area where he wanted to build a factory, which he couldn't possibly understand. In this response, to the government's reading, I expected at least one sentence that investors would no longer have to build transistor stations if they wanted to build factories in Croatia. Therefore, it is probably the trade unions that foreign investors must build trafostations if they want to build a factory in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61156	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61157	Well, they actually wrote in that answer what the government thinks. Apparently, he's acting that way, because what we've witnessed in the last year, the biggest burden, turns out to be the only burden for all the failures that have been, for all the money sucked out of all the possible companies, the ones who live off their work, and these are the workers, they're the pensioners, so those who live off their past work. They're the ones who put up with the biggest load, and then I guess it's their fault that they're almost 300 grand in the Employment Service. They are probably to blame that 790,000 Croatian citizens live below the poverty line, they are likely to blame that 65% of these workers in Croatia receive an average salary, receiving less than average salary. And they are also guilty that 50% of pensioners live with a pension of less than 2 thousand 62 kuna and are below poverty levels. That's why I was saying that the measures that have been and which have been in the final line through legal projects have been coming here to the Parliament, are only for taking those who have little or less. And now I will repeat once again as I have told President Kosor, for such measures this government, this HDZ and this Prime Minister will never have our support.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61158	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Dear colleague Frano Matušić has applied. Here you go, colleague Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61159	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At first, I would like to say that, in fact, anything new is difficult to say, after what the Vice-President of the Parliament said, our colleague, Mr. Vladimir Seks, who, with a very clear language, has hit the core of things, and therefore there have been such reactions from the SDP, because the most painful is at the core. If you hit the core, then it's certainly the most painful thing. And the fact is, regardless of what has been done by a colleague, Vujic has objected to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that a pattern of conduct that was only appropriate in the communist totalitarian criminal regime is in action. That's a fact. Look only from what their representative of the club Linic presented. My colleague Vujic read that stenogram and you will see. He clearly said Mrs. Jadranka Kosor was guilty. So, on behalf of the SDP club, counterpart Linic has already accused and convicted Mrs Jadranka Kosor, the president of the Croatian government of guiltyness. There was only more missing, there was no verdict, probably the same in the manner of communism execution. That's all that was missing. So the execution of those who are guilty, without any evidence, and we were able to watch the Croatian television case Hebrang last night, as it was done in the former regime. So it all points to one communist pamphlet. Don't run away from your past, your party is a successor, heir to the Croatian Communists' alliance, and that's what you were called. That's what you called yourself, SKH SDP. That was your official name for a while. And yet you inherited the property. If you are not a follower of the Communist alliance, then give up real estate. Give up the dice, give up all those properties owned by the Communist alliance. Based on what these properties have belonged to you, if you are not the heir and heir to the criminal communist party. But colleagues and colleagues, while you are taking your head over these facts, I will only remind you that the European Parliament, and that on several occasions the Council of Europe has condemned this criminal communist regime, because of dictatorship, because of one-mindedness, because of the murders of intellectuals, priests, ordinary citizens, etc. This is the same Council of Europe as the members of the SDP. The same European Parliament will be sitting in tomorrow's seats as Croatian lawmakers. Therefore, these bodies of the European Union have clearly been designated for the 2nd greatest evils of the 20th century, Nazism and communism. And they didn't pick by accident, they didn't pick the date of August 23rd when Germany, Nazi Germany and the Communist Soviet Union signed a non-attack agreement. The date was also selected in the European Parliament and the Council of Europe as a date to remember all victims of totalitarian criminal regimes. Today, however, we have something that reminds us of those times. We have this indictment, we have an attempt to turn the Croatian Parliament into a courtroom, we have something that is completely inappropriate with European behaviour. It's no wonder that we know what your roots are, it doesn't surprise us. But we return to the essence of things, when it comes to EU negotiations with the EU here, a series of lies and inaccuracies have been presented. On behalf of his second-class counterpart, Milanovic said the government is suddenly delaying the conclusion of the negotiations. It's a complete lie. This government, the government of Jadranka Kosor has accelerated the negotiations and we have come to the final stage, we have come to the end of the negotiations. That this is the announcement by the Prime Minister of Hungary, who is one of his priorities during the EU's Presidency, which will take place from 1 January 2011 until the last day of June of the same year, so until the last day of June next year, he put one of his priorities to end negotiations with Croatia and sign Croatia's accession treaty with the EU. So it's no marketing trick. These are the words of the president of the Hungarian government at a meeting of the troika that announced what would be the priorities of that president in that period when Hungary holds the EU presidency. Also here from the European Commission, although Mr Barroso did not announce the exact date of the conclusion of the negotiations, he did announce one date. He made it very clear that Croatia will complete the negotiations in 2011. He made that clear. Therefore, that date cannot be out of 2011. Our expectations are that Croatia has met to the greatest extent all the criteria needed to close the remaining chapters which are less than a third now than a month in November will be the next intergovernmental conference at which several chapters will be closed, and we also expect an intergovernmental conference in December of the month where a number of chapters will also be closed. Which means that in the coming year, there may be two, no more than three closing chapters. When we talk about these chapters, we should also say, one of them is Chapter 23. – The fight against corruption is one of the political criteria for which the European Commission measures the behaviour of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this process and which assesses and assesses work related to Chapter 23. But why not tell the Croatian public that Chapter 23 was first introduced in the case of Croatia, that it had never appeared in the EU candidate countries' negotiations before. Why not say that for the first time in the case of Croatia and Turkey, the criteria for opening or closing chapters have been introduced. The criteria were never needed before or were known in this EU communication with candidate countries. So we have far the hardest negotiations that are very successful here we are now ending thanks to the government of Mrs Jadranka Kosor, thanks to the government of the Republic of Croatia and the coalition government. And those facts are simply inconclusive. It is, therefore, surprising that fellow Milanovic is truly uninformed when he talks about the government delaying to the end of the negotiations indefinitely. He's obviously uninformed. I am surprised that the members of the SDP are very active in all those forums, all those bodies that are following negotiations with the EU, and they know very well that this is not true. And I'm really surprised, then either he's mean or he's not telling the truth or he's not being informed. What else to say after these statements about Croatian negotiations. Speaking of which, there has been a lot of talk today about affairs, there should be a cleanup of all the affairs that have taken place in Croatia because simply from these affairs and from the consequences of these affairs there should be lessons and lessons and all those who would eventually want to produce some other or some new affairs should be prevented. However, this does not mean that there will be no crime and does not mean that there will be no corruption in the future. And it doesn't mean there's no crime and corruption in the EU. Well, right from the EU are coming from some companies, some companies that have corrupt Croatian officials. Here, Daimler comes from the EU, Daimler admitted before the US court that he gave 4.7m euros to make a deal to make it happen. And you know who made the deal with Daimler. Representatives of the government then led by Ivica Racan. And it's plainly said that you would have done the job. So you don't have to run from that space, so you'd rather find out the way of money, find out who these people are, and I hope you won't need your help since the ministries have also asked for international assistance, legal aid, and that this information will come up who it is and why he received a bribe from the SDP officials, so in this "Daimler affair". But actually when you look at who's talking, what's offered to the Croatian public then I think we can from a very clear example where SDP is the main actor you can see so they can rule if they're in a position to rule. Here, the city of Zagreb. Holding, look what's going on in Holding. Today they swear on the expertise of the members of the SDP, and there they place exclusively political belongings to their parties who support them within the Zagreb Assembly itself. Look at the reception of the Head of Holding. See how they resolve their interests, only their own interests. Look at the relationship between the city administration and the city hall, see where the debts are generated. How many debts are generated through Holding which are in some way, not in some way but in particular added to the total Croatian government debt. So I think it's clear enough what kind of accusation this is in this pamphlet that reminds us of communist times, and indeed, my colleague Shakespeare has shown it in the best possible way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61160	We've got 10 credentials and 8 replicas. Because it's more of a correction, so we'll start with the corrections. First of all, dear colleague Slavko Linic. Here's your colleague, Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61161	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of Agent Matusic, who said that I was in the club statement on behalf of the club said President Kosor was guilty. Otherwise, he's not close to the truth, so he's using it again in his presentation. I will repeat on behalf of the club I said the SDP Club estimates that Jadranka Kosor is responsible for the poor economic situation in Croatia, that she is responsible for the fall in the standards of Croatian citizens, that she is responsible for the growth of unemployment in Croatia, that she is responsible for the decline of the gross social product, that she is responsible for the uncontrolled growth of external debt and that she is responsible for the growth of the budget deficit. Yes, Mr. Matusic, you like to tell the truth, to scare the citizens with tips, and you haven't responded to this, and you could've tried.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61162	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of counterpart Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61163	Mr. Vice President, Article 209 has been injured. You were saying she was responsible, but you said she was guilty, look at what you said, and then talk about who doesn't like telling the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61164	Thank you. There are notes of tone, video, therefore anything is possible to check it out. And we're moving on with the corrections of colleague Dino Kozlevac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61165	Mr. Vice President. I'd like to make two things right. It is not because you have taught us the first thing that is a communist pamphlet and communist manners, I am correcting you to be a democratic right based on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia based on the Statute of the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, on the Business and on the right to discuss in this democratic House every topic on behalf of the citizens who have entrusted us with the representatives, and also in the trust of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which we have, ultimately, in a formal sense, the right every 6 months. And the second I'd make it right, he says everyone's heart hurts, everyone's hurt for what hurts him. Thus, everyone feels affected by what hurts him the most or itches. And as for communist manners when you know them so well, I believe that when they look around you that you had someone to teach communist manners, that's all about that communist time you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61166	Thank you very much. I rectification of the alleged distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61167	Something similar to what a colleague was fixing. Falsely what counterpart Matušić claimed when he said today we have the indictment here. So, he calls the indictment our legitimate and upon the Businessman on the law-founded right. Why didn't you throw away when you had so much courage if this is how you treat this legitimate and justifiable act? And by its content, because citizens have the right to rebel against unfair authority. It's really absurd to call our act an indictment like this. So, what's this all about? You're even calling the government to account for a blasphemous act, because the fact that you get power for you is an absolute ticket to rule however you want. Well, that's one prehistoric thinking. And a few other colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61168	My colleagues, correct the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61169	... When you're going to talk, you have to make a scam. [[Speech is not enabled.]] Well, that's not worthy. So how will you respect the laws if you've clearly stolen us for nine months?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61170	Correction quotes and other claims you argue. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of counterpart Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61171	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I didn't say it was blasphemous. I didn't say it. Article 209 was injured because I didn't say what my colleague was saying, and the truth is, I ordered it. I signed up neatly. No one put me here where you think I came across the line. It's a complete lie. And when we talk about content, then this is an indictment of what you wrote this pamphlet of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61172	Thank you. Correction of the quote by the esteemed colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61173	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Matusic's incorrect allegation is that our legitimate request to vote against the government was called a communist pamphlet and it is an incorrect assumption that the SDP did not give up something he said should be given up. So, if this was a communist pamphlet, it certainly wouldn't be signed by representatives of the party of HNS, HSU, HSP and IDS, that's the first thing that's incorrect. Second of all, you're 20 years late as far as giving up your inheritance. People who transformed the Croatian Communist Union into a Democratic Change Party to 1. The SDP convention in November 1990 brought a historical declaration in which they did exactly what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61174	There was no comment here on the declarations, so let's make it right now. Tell me what you're correcting from this speech. You didn't answer for the line. You answered for the correction of the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61175	I'm correcting the quote where Mr. Matusic spoke of the need for denial. And I just said there's no need to... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61176	So you don't have to give up, okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61177	No, but that he has already given up... /The speaker has been excluded./... but you should give up the same methods you apply in dealing with party non-insistants and younger members who deal with politics will learn well what these methods look like on the example of HDZ, Sanader, Polancec and similar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61178	Don't teach me methods. I felt these methods on my back. Comrade Nenad Stazić, please, correct the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61179	You say Croatia has accelerated the negotiations and you call on Barroso for a witness, at first it is not true. And secondly, that witness of yours testifies exactly the opposite of what you claim. In 2008, the same Barroso, according to the Prime Minister's testimony, pledged to conclude Croatia's negotiations next year. That was supposed to be 2009. Now in 2010, I was telling you this morning, and now he doesn't even mention the date. So you didn't speed it up, but you couldn't meet those deadlines that Barroso told you in 2008. You know why? Well, because you're incompetent, very simple. You're talking about some kind of communist model, and it's you who organized HDZ all over the municipalities, municipal, city and county support organisations for President Kosor and press releases. Well, that hasn't been seen since '72. A year. All you had to do was send her a staff, but you might as well get to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61180	Thank you. Correction of the quote, distinguished colleague Karolina Leaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61181	You also said that this government, as counterpart Stazic said, has accelerated negotiations on Croatia's accession to the European Union. That's not true. And as far as it could be seen in the media these days and during the visit of the Prime Minister to the European Commission, Mr Barroso made two days ago in Brussels statements that there was no date for Croatia to start negotiations he actually wanted to send a message that he was not satisfied with either the dynamics or the way this government is currently doing the job. He also told the government that he must work more on the European project, especially in the domain of the judiciary and shipyards because he claims that the Croatian government is stalling the situation in these sectors even though it is well aware of what it should do. I would add that the government does not know and will not make necessary steps and that is why it must step down.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61182	Thank you. An esteemed colleague, Jovanovic, came forward to correct the allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61183	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of representative Frana Matušić in Dubrovnik, known as Frula, who at war time raised the morals of his fellow citizens in Dubrovnik by playing guitar across the European Union, that the SDP does not understand the progress in meeting the criteria of chapter 23, which is completely wrong. The European Union has made it clear that chapter 23 in the corruption section will not be closed unless the quality of the conflict of interest is resolved legally, the right to access information and to finance political parties precisely in proposals where the SDP is trying to prevent state-owned companies from being an ATM that HDZ officials finance their personal and party needs. This must be prevented by counterpart Matusic in order to close chapter 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61184	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. But you see, this is all fine, but this flute now that it lifts the plate, it seems, it tells you again, then you'll tell you the breach of the Rules of Procedure. We don't need a trumpet or a flute. We're going to discuss the essence. Dear colleague Šprem has come forward to correct the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61185	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, I am correcting Mr. Matusic for saying that there are certain problems in Zagreb. According to his political criteria, personnel in holding are exclusively recorded, so I would like to conclude that out of the 12 newly elected branch directors, only two members of some political parties are. You know why? Because we watched the ability, the expertise of these people, and because they were chosen in a public competition. That's one thing. Secondly, you mentioned the relationship between the congregation and holding company. Now let me tell you something. In the holding assembly, all political groups represented... listen to me, Mr. Matušić, please. All political groups represented in the city's assembly, so all citizens of the City of Zagreb are represented in the holding assembly and with HDZ. And you can find in Croatia a municipality, a city or a county where a member of the SDP is in the Assembly of the local community's trade society and contact me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61186	Comrade Dragovan, you've come forward to correct the quote. I give you my word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61187	Thank you, Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of my colleague Matusic, who said that the SDP said in his proposal that Mrs Kosor was guilty. That's not true. The SDP made it clear that Mrs. Jadranka Kosor is responsible, she is responsible because 200 workers remain out of work today. She is responsible because there are over 80,000 workers left in her term of office. Among other things, she is also responsible for the fact that almost 85 thousand workers are employed today, and she does not receive salary for her work. She is responsible because she did not allow fines to be sanctioned by those who do not pay wages for certain work, who do not pay contributions, and the last example of this is the workers of Kamenski. She is responsible because those who should monitor why the contributions are not paid are not working and Mrs Kosor is also responsible because at the time of her term of office since she was in charge of the foreign debt of Croatia...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61188	Comrade Dragovan...... I suppose she's also responsible for you and the rain that rained yesterday, but you're reporting for a rectification of the quote. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] You did not say one word that you were correcting but kept reading what was given in the proposal for consideration. Let's stick to the Rules of Procedure, even though you're now lifting a plate of injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Okay, I agree, but I suggest you give it up because we're not making any progress, we're just making things harder for ourselves. We have another correction of the alleged, distinguished fellow representative Ostojić's doctor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61189	... Two out of 11, on the 11th, I stopped counting incorrect allegations. [[Specially enabled.]] So definitely this government is responsible for being late with the European Union. We've been saying that for at least the last three years. Definitely the SDP supports the interior minister who sent 10 very good people to Washington on Friday to investigate and end the story with Daimler at last. I read in the paper that Mladen Bajic did the same. A sufficient intellectual talent is something that I do every day in my work when I work with patients, when we do research and it would be good to keep an eye on this enough intellectual talent in our replicas, especially when we go back to the past. The past in these parts is causing blood, passion and passion, and let's save it for some better times and better situations. I appeal, sufficient intellectual talent. Perhaps it would be good, including criteria and selecting, say, some MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61190	Thank you very much. And now we move on to replicas. The first to sign up for the replica was the esteemed colleague Boris Kunst. Here you go, fellow representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61191	I don't think that there should be any greater importance to this initiation of the SDP trust procedure because, as you know, SDP at least once a year with its coalition raises trust issues to either government or to any government minister, and this was actually the last time this year because this year is already on the run, to start the issue now. So there shouldn't be any greater importance here because calling new elections and this desire for violent coming to power is kind of normal for this opposition. But I think it would be good to remind the SDP that in fact life consists of pleasant and unpleasant events and, normally, not to be forgotten and these unpleasant events, it means that you should look at the mirror of history and remember and remind these very citizens who watch this as they promised all people when they came to power. So they promised them 2,000 jobs. Do you think there were 2,000 new jobs? No, I don't. There were 400,000 unemployed. So then the statements were SDP's members of the government, for example, saying that too many workers' rights were anti-entrepreneurship, so they cressed the Labour Act, so they cut their notices, severances, cut their salaries, frozen salaries, derivated collective contracts. Normally, that's what we talked about. That's what was coming to collect here. You see, that big concern and the social sensitivity of the SDP to workers. These workers have not recovered from it today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61192	Thank you very much. Replication response. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61193	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it is true, colleague Kunst, that apparently SDP wants to forget what he was doing not only in the past but also in the nearest when he was in power from 2000 till the end of 2003. He says we leave that history for the future, and we'll talk about it when the time comes, too. So you're not gonna stop us from talking about you all the things we know you've been doing. You won't be able to stop us no matter what you try. You won't be able to stop it. This is a democratic state in which you can freely speak and feel free to think and discuss and talk about the facts that happened and the fact that SDP was doing what a colleague Kunst said not to mention the fact that you immediately broke collective agreements and that because of this, we suffered those who came after you to power so we paid billions of kuna to those who sued the state based on you breaking collective agreements, not to talk about this relationship to the union, etc. Well, you could have taught your colleague Jovanovic a little bit how to behave, so he wouldn't have tried to insult some kind of flute. And since I consider him a traitor because he did not vote for the independence of Croatia, then everything that comes from him is rejected however he directs them to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61194	Okay. Let's move on. Dear colleague Marija Lugaric applied for the replica. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61195	Dear colleague, as much as you try to cloud the water and toss yourself with mud, you mention the core of things and the core of things is in the next. You support a policy that leaves 200 workers out of work a day. You support the politics of Jadranka Kosor, where 85,000 people work and do not receive wages. You support Mrs. Jadranka Kosor's policy in which 65% of employees have a salary below average. You support Mrs. Jadranka Kosor's policy in which more than 50% of pensioners live below the poverty line with a pension of less than 2062 kuna. You fellow Matusic support Mrs Kosor's policy in which the real decline in gross social product in 2009 was 5.8% and 2.5 more in the second quarter of 2010. You, Mr. Matusic, support Mrs. Jadranka Kosor's policy in which investments fell by 25%. You fellow Matusic support the politics of Jadranka Kosor, in which industrial production fell 9%. You support a policy in which the system's indifference is greater than 31 billion kuna. And of course you don't care about knowing the core of things and of course the only thing they have left is to scare people with some kind of baukom of communism that stopped in the country 20 years ago and of course all you have left in response to these unpleasant and undisputed facts that you can't argue with with mud.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61196	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61197	Your colleagues do not agree with this aggression and anxiety that you could say much calmer. But like this, I support a policy that is unlike your time when you were in power and you had 1.1 million and 300,000 employees. Today we have a million and 478,000 employees. So this is the result of a concrete policy. Or if you want to do it next. Of course, the economic downturn that was observed last year is still noticeable in this year, which is not the result of this policy, but is the result of economic movements throughout the world. You're saying that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is responsible for the global crisis, for giving the German state 300 billion euros to its banks to save itself from the financial crisis. For the European Union has allocated 3,000 billion euros out of its budget to help its economies and its banks. You're saying it's our fault, that the Croatian government is to blame. You accuse the Croatian government of something that has nothing to do with it. The Croatian Government is very socially sensitive and is very careful to help the most sensitive citizens take care of births, defenders, all those social categories that need to be taken care of unlike your authorities. Well, you cut birth benefits. You've abolished your rights. You have abolished all rights, all rights to all social groups. That's what your policy was. Your policy wasn't the opposite of what you're saying right now. That's exactly the truth, not what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61198	Thank you. Next, a distinguished colleague, Gordan Maras, came forward. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61199	Thank you very much, Mr. Matusic. I have to admit we made one mistake today. A colleague from the SDP's Club of Representatives who gave you the correction of an incorrect quote and didn't give you a chance to answer that they made a mistake, because with each of your SDP ratings answers, they jump. I need to give you a chance to speak as much as you can, and that's why I raised the line, so I hope you'll answer me. So, Jadranka Kosor right you are not guilty, she is responsible for the 7th quarter of Croatia's GDP declines, 7th quarter. It is due to 8% falling in GDP over the past two years, which 89,000 people are not working, which 70,000 people are not getting paid in the companies that have been blocked, which is an external debt of 47 billion euros. It's all due to Mrs. Jadranka Kosor that we lost management rights in INA, which is a construction activity 20% lower, which is a less 3% trade activity this year,... Another 15%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's all due to Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. And that's why the SDP advocates' club wants Jadranka Kosor to go along with most Croatian citizens. Be careful, when you make such an appeal and request to the Croatian Assembly, you do not do so from a whim of your own. That's what most Croatian citizens want. This is why the legitimacy of this request is high and therefore the legitimacy of the SDP's demand for new elections is the only one that can get this Croatia out of the crisis. And Mr. Matusic, please don't talk about communism anymore. It's 20 years since the country disappeared, since Croatian independence. I went to high school then, Mr. Matushic. You're your school, your education and everything in that system and don't talk to me about communism. Please stop once and for all with such discussions because the SDP has nothing to do with that time, and more of your members are closely connected to that time than what SDP has at all members in its membership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61200	Replication response, colleague Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61201	Comrade Maras, you can justify this communist pamphlet of yours however you like, but I will only disprove you with facts when you talk about how Mrs. Jadranka Kosor's government works. When you talk about the unemployed, you forget that at the time of the SDP government there were 400 thousand unemployed. When you speak of those who do not receive wages, you forget that in your day there were 120,000 of those who did not receive wages. You forgot that data. And when you talk about communism, if you really don't have anything to do with that time, give up the property of a Communist party that belongs to the SDP. Why don't you give up?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61202	Thank you. My colleague Caine, I saw a plate about the Rules of Procedure. What's this about?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61203	Very short. I beg you, Mr. Vice President, here's another time today, not you, before your predecessor, just to tell me or tell us how long this debate will last, because God forbid this turns into some replica of that 14th Congress party, and everyone's calling for a party today, I'm asking you to tell me how long this is gonna take. Looks like before 7:00 tomorrow morning, this isn't gonna end. So my proposal would be to finish this debate now, and tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, we will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61204	I can't do this to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61205	Let's not do that in the early hours of the morning, just decide on one of these important issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61206	My colleague Cain, I can't guarantee you how long it will take, but I can certainly promise you that he will not have the fate of the 14th unfinished congress, that we will complete both the debate and the vote, and that in order to do so and do so, here goes the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61207	We're gonna have a break or something, so we know.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61208	Dear colleague of the twilight. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61209	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will not tell you about the past, I will tell you just a few facts about how the SDPs in the city of Zagreb are fantastic and capable of ruling. So that's amazing. At the time of recession they have, that Mr. Sprem, members of their management in Holding have salaries of 36,000 gross, and then they've made nice contracts to have 12 gross severance payments, and then they've got a driver from 0 to 24, and they're learning the foreign language that they need most, and imagine that same Holding they've brought down to minus 56 million. And you know why and how? At the time of Mr. Milanovic's local elections, Mr. Bandic presented it as the only thing they have to offer the best in the world, and then they gave it up. Well, it's not just this way of ruling the SDP now, so it's not 10 years ago, 5 years ago, it's now, so it's in Vukovar, we heard the other day from our colleagues, so it's a job. It's not worth school, college, but you're only worth being a member of the SDP, a sympathiser, or one of their coalitions. You can have a medium professional training and you'll be in the management post, that's right, and in the Holding Mr. Sprem. As for the budget of the city of Zagreb. For this rebalancing fellow Matušić did not vote, they did not raise their hands, neither for the pensioners, nor for the workers, nor for the birth, nor for the benefits, but there, of course, with Mr Bandic they made a fantastic deal and everything is fine now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61210	Thank you. I've seen two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Shmrem.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61211	Here's Mrs. Advocacy's injured Article 7. The Rules of Procedure, because she swore she would knowingly and responsibly do this job here. Yesterday you could hear in response to the parliamentary question, it was asked to Mr. Ivo Covic, and every contract has been published to you, please every contract by a member of the board and what you're saying is incorrect. It's not about any increase, it's about 10% reduction in salary for all members of the Holding Administration. That's what it says on the Internet.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61212	I'm a colleague of Smreme's. Comrade Shrem, you're a lawyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61213	So please 10% use 6 thousand kuna... [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61214	Well, don't do it this way. Have a seat, pals. I mean, there are ways you can explain this, surely by lifting up the license plate of a breach of the Rules of Procedure that's not the way. And I saw a colleague, Maras, still called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61215	Ms. Sumrak was injured in accordance with Article 7 and Article 209(3), as paragraph 3 states that the person who gives the replica must be manifested to the person who gives it, and it was manifested to what the correction was the incorrect quote of Mr. Shprem. I find it very difficult to get into the scale and expertise of what Mrs. Sumrak said, since she said that the loss of Holding of $ 56 million in half a year to 5 billion in revenue, and she forgot to mention that the country's deficit has 15 billion kuna. So let's not mix pears and apples. 50 million out of 5 billion.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61216	Mr. Maras, you're in now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61217	It's 1%.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61218	In replica. Indicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61219	The country's deficit is 15%.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61220	Is the Rules of Procedure injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61221	I know it's Mrs. twilight of another profession, but when it comes to... You should prepare a little better. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61222	She's, as I understand it, well, I believe that I've got it right, she's been talking to a representative who's been discussing it, and she's kind of educated him, and she's been giving him instructions if he's interested, by chance, to work in Holding, with examples of what he should be doing. Whether it's a place or not, I agree it's not, because we're discussing a whole other thing. I've even heard how the attitude can be discussed, but it's not the place to talk about it either, but it's simply time to give a reply to the replica, so colleague Matušić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61223	Well, the fact is, I mentioned Holding and that's what my colleague referred to. The fact is, I was talking about Holding and I said that it's being employed on the party line, and the fact is that it's being employed, that it's known which member of the Management Board is which party. It's known by name and last name. And you are contesting it to the Croatian public. Well, that's what it says in all the media. Well, that's your way of ruling. Well, you inaugurated such a way of ruling. It's SDP. In 2000, you replaced the cleaning lady with anything that could have smelled or had anything to do with HDZ or I don't know who.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61224	Thank you, colleague Matušić. Come back.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61225	Yeah, of course I will, I'll go back to the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61226	Don't do Smreme. He didn't replicate. He rephraseed with his colleague, Smurk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61227	It is true that the SDP through its city administration in Zagreb and through Holding actually implements the same policy that led to all and debts, which led to all those... The behavior of individuals, which has led to numerous affairs. [[You don't understand.]] Well, isn't that the affair that's happening at the Holding? Isn't the affair these debts that were created? Isn't it an affair from that famous bathroom and beyond? And isn't it true that the then president of the Bandic City Committee was announced as the best SDP can offer Zagreb and Croatia? That's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61228	Thank you. A prominent vice-president of the parliament and parliamentary representative Zeljka Antunovic also appeared after the replica. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61229	Thank you very much. In fact, I would not be replicating my colleague Matošić, regardless of what he said here and deserved a lot of replicas and corrections if my colleague Matošić did not directly mention me in his presentation. In fact, he probably mentioned me by alluding to my correction to an incorrect assumption in which I didn't understand at all what kind of communist methods and judgments stories, i.e. the convictions and verdicts and the courts of the party were spoken by a distinguished colleague, Vice President Vladimir Seks. Well, you see, colleague Matosic, I don't give up the communist past. First of all, on my own behalf, I have nothing to give up because I've never shared that ideology or that practice. Unlike many of you, even you personally, I do not give up the Croatian past, our shared history which we like or not in one part is also marked by the communist dictatorship. In this dictatorship, active, less active, or totally passive, many took part in probably thinking that they were doing the best for their country or family. Likewise, you may feel that by supporting a failed government, you are doing well for both your family and your homeland. But let us on the other hand be critical about what you're doing. That we speak publicly, openly, using democratic methods in this House. We don't use subjection in the communist manner, we don't work under the table as you know in your mutual accounts obviously work and whatever you've never been a member of the Party you know how to use these methods. We didn't go as we could with some of your former members or, as Minister Jandrokovic said, I forgot, what did you say? The fugitives, are they? We didn't make a pact with them, but we filed a legal motion for mistrust. And that's all we have with communism.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61230	Thank you. The reply to the replica, dear colleague here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61231	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you have much to do with communist manners and communist behavior, because around you and along with you are the people who acted at the time. It's possible you weren't in the Alliance of Communists, I assume you weren't, but you kind of accepted the burden and alliance of communists the moment you entered the SDP. Which probably wasn't your intention, but those are the facts. They're facts, aren't they? Therefore, it is quite clear that the methods you are talking about are very well - known and you are doing them well today through various institutions. From the local communities where you ordered people to hire people on the SDP line, you ordered them and called them on the phone to be hired on that line, up to these latest cases in Zagreb Holding. But to keep from talking about it, I'm just going to say one more fact that you tried to call false. We took a stenogram, a phonogram from counterpart Linic, which clearly states: "The Prime Minister is also responsible for a huge number of unpaid pensions, health services, etc." So you found her guilty, Mr. Linic, on behalf of the club when you spoke. And the fact is, what I said was that you said it was true, not the truth as you and your colleagues tried to say it wasn't true that you said it. You said, "It's also the Prime Minister's fault," you know what that means. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61232	Thank you. It is next for the replica, distinguished colleague Mirjana Feric-Vac. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61233	Mr. Vice President should speak slowly in this House because there seems to be too many people who can't think fast. It's said here, I've reported on this replica, a lot of things that go back to some kind of history, and history as science is something that people who know history as well as other sciences deal with. When it is depraved and used for everyday purposes in this way it is called politics, and it should not be practiced in this House, which has yet to be a mirror of the rule of democracy. Mr. Matosic was in the heat of his debate after... he received from Mr. Seks to go to a large salting session and began to mention both the EU and the Council of Europe. He forgot when he mentioned these two declarations that the Council of Europe, as well as the EU, had adopted recommendations from the report on unemployment, job injustice, wage default, prices, wages and pensions. Therefore, you cannot speak selectively about something that you quite like, Mr. Matosic, and on the other hand bear the same responsibility as the chairman of the committee that is relevant for some of the topics already to be opened in this House, and this is about the process and the approximation of the EU. So much for this because I think too much time is dedicated to what you want to take us past the subject. And you, Mr. Fristic, are involved in this because this is no longer the topic in question. And the topic is the trust of the Prime Minister to Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61234	All right, I'm taking part with you because it would be good to put on the grid and see how many words have been spent on government and prime minister, and what's been left since the seventh century and so on. But I don't have the right to judge or reply to a replica because you've replicated an esteemed representative, so I give him my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61235	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And what to say to you, colleagues Feric-Vac, so you know for a fact that the European Parliament has supported Croatia in all its efforts to join the EU as quickly as possible, supported it. So, the European Parliament has expressed satisfaction with what Croatia is doing on its path to the EU. I'm surprised you're in pain because, as you say, I'm selectively taking some parts of history. But we live in today's time that has a lot to do with what happened in the past. And when I say today that the European Parliament and the Council of Europe have unequivocally condemned the regime that was in Croatia since '45. By 1990 and calling it a criminal, totalitarian non-democratic regime, then I'm really surprised that it may offend you or I don't know what, but it's facts. And that's not selective exposure to historical facts and politics. It is a fact that has been confirmed in the European Parliament recently, which has been confirmed recently in the Council of Europe. But if you can't accept it, I really don't blame you, but at least be on the line of those institutions in which the Council of Europe is on the line which it calls such regimes undemocratic, criminal, totalitarian. That's the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61236	Thank you. A colleague, Davorko Vidovic. Here you go, colleagues. It's your turn for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61237	As far as I know in Croatia, there is not one political party or stronger group that advocates communism and its values. Does he have a practice of Bolsheviks? I'll give you five examples. First example, the election of the president of the party in '72. Milka Planinz is identical with no more candidates, no permanent vote as is done in your party. Example number two, dissident charge. On Friday, you did something even the Bolsheviks didn't do in the late years of their reign. You've banned the dissident from looking, let alone sitting down and giving him a hand. That's better. Your lexis, your inner enemy, your traitors, the destruction of power, the attack on order, and that's bettervism, my dear friend. The calculation, the identification of the party of the state. Well, you've been doing it for 20 years, so that's better. Whoever touches HDZ touched Croatia. That's how you introduce yourselves. As far as the communists are concerned, there sits them down a little bit alone, a little bit more than on this side. Former members of the party. I was a member of the party in the '80s when it was already the Liberal Party. More candidates were elected, etc. Ask when General Cosic was, when he was Dr. Shex, when he was, so these are the people who were in the party. What are you talking about? You deal with your inner enemies in a way, he mentioned, you send telegrams like Milki Planinc miners, students, tractorists, honest intelligence, you send telegrams from your committees, so that's bettervism. Stop that story. It doesn't go in your favor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61238	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61239	A fellow Vidovic can only laugh at your findings, which is bettervism. Bolshevism was much more cruel fellow Vidovic and the Communist Party Croatia was much more cruel. We never used those methods. The Communist party executed, killed innocent people. Yesterday was supposed to be the anniversary of the Daxie massacre that was committed against people who had nothing to do with either Nazism or fascism, just the opposite were anti-fascists. Do you know who signed a warrant to kill them? Jurović Baja. He signed it. There's a historical document. For the liquidation of 44 intellectual priests, these are the people who were killed because they were a danger to the Communist Party. It's your betterism.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61240	Thank you. And the last report of the replica, dear colleague Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61241	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When we listen to these answers to replicas, then we can see that the common point of HDZ and goldfish is really a very short memory. They've already forgotten the 1990s of conversion, privatisation, that economic and moral mutilation. In 2003 pre-election promises, Eva Sanader's security cards were all gone. In 2007, they said against new taxes, it is also forgotten, that pensions will grow 70% of the salary and it is gone. You forgot the Ivo Sanader you all were celebrating until recently, here's a colleague, Matusic, a week before Ivo Sanader left the government and said that we in the SDP are jealous that we don't have such a leader as Ivo Sanader. And then a week later, Ivo Sanader leaves. And there you have forgotten him. As far as the EU is concerned, let's get things straight. The elections and the EU have nothing to do with it. So a bunch of countries that had candidate status held elections in the midst of negotiations. The Czech Republic had elections in the middle of its presidency, and Belgium is chaired by the EU without a government. So we can have the election tomorrow. The second thing, the corruption issue of Polancec. Well, of course, the issue of this investigation is the launch of an anti-corruption fight, but it's also the opening of a story about who else is corrupt. Is that at Minister Calmet's and his HZ's, HC's? It's your government of Jadranka Kosor, who might still be corrupt. The third thing is also that Jadranka Kosor, due to a lack of information, said a month ago the EU will save us. And in Brussels, they remained appalled. We will get money from the EU for which Brussels last week said it is already clear that Croatia will not be able to use it. In addition, count on the EU to give 600m euros in membership fees. We'll barely get that back. Who's to blame? Your government. And the last thing when we enter the EU should be made clear, some segments of society will suffer, part of farmers, food industry, meat industry. Why? Not because of the EU. The EU has given money and experts. We haven't done deep reforms. Who was supposed to do the right reforms? Your government. So this one is blamed for the MA government of Ivo Sanader and its legal HDZ successor to the government of Jadranka Kosor. That's why we can... the election, because your deal with the negotiations was purely technical. Nothing's been done in depth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61242	Thank you. Reply to the replica of counterpart Matušić. First, you change the place, the location, the club, and then you throw it away. You don't think you'll be identified, do you? Here you go, colleague Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61243	Can I speak? I can. Here is my colleague Mondekar, who is wrong that Croatia will not use the resources available. Of course we will use the funds to the most possible extent I am convinced of this and I am sure that it will be a financial envelope relating to Croatia in 2012-2013. 3.5 billion euros will be well, well used and we will not have problems with this, because many people who have so far used funds and funds that have been used over 95% therefore talk enough about the fact that Croatia is ready and that Croatian institutions are ready to use these funds and will certainly not be used. It is also incorrect for you colleagues to advocate the fight against corruption, you are fighting the fight against corruption. Yeah. you are fighting together to contact your colleagues and colleagues, because the moment the State Attorney's Office and the Ministry of the Interior start investigating some of the actions of your colleagues at that time, my colleague Jovanovic, who says I have information that this is for political reasons, that a political order has come to the police and the state's attorney's office to question the Rijeka Markets, to question this etc. Well, of course it's a fight against that fight against corruption. Of course you have a clear responsibility here and that the moment that fight comes at your door you are obviously afraid. You're afraid of the results of those investigations, that's what you're afraid of in the SDP. The result of the investigation leads to your door, to your officials, to those who have received bribes in the Daimler affair. And as for jealousy, so you have, you're in love enough, you don't need to be jealous.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61244	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Here comes my colleague Dubravka Shuica. Here you go, pal. Excuse me, colleague, my bad. On behalf of the promoter, here you go, Mr. Vice President Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61245	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would now, on behalf of the motionary, respect the appeal of the Prime Minister to talk about the facts and to talk about the truth and then try to get this debate back from these party times, from these investigative times to European times. In fact, one of the reasons for the launch of this proposal for non-confidentiality was, among other things, our intensity to talk about what is and how is it enough for Croatia to get closer to the European Union, i.e. at the end of Croatia's negotiations with the European Union. We are here behind this speaker by the representatives of the HDZ Club we have heard and seen in the media that the HDZ obviously places in mild media, we have heard the the thesis that early elections will make it difficult, that it will delay the completion of Croatian negotiations with the European Union in at least six months. In our opinion, it is an alibi for what appears or does not seem to be in relations with the European Union because something like this can only come and can be said by a government that does not want to take responsibility for its work that needs to be done. In fact, such an attitude simply means if someone says that in 6 months early elections will slow down the conclusion of the negotiations it can be translated very easily that this government says it does not want to do its job and will not do its job in the time of the election campaign and even in time if it accidentally receives those elections in the next three months, that is, in those 100 bottoms for which it would seek forgiveness. In fact, the responsible government should and must work equally during the course of the regular elections, it must work equally at a time when only the technical government, i.e. the transitional government, and only an irresponsible government can escape from such responsibility. Therefore, talking about slowing down negotiations because they would be early elections and what would not allegedly not exist could come only from an irresponsible government. It is quite easy to put such a political attitude in political speech, but if we go a little deeper into the analysis of what is yet to be done for the conclusion of the negotiations, then we are on the ground where I would like to say something more concrete. We have 11 chapters left to close. Until the other day, or until some month ago, the government and the Prime Minister assured us that we would do so by the end of this year. Until the other day, they changed rhetoric and predictions a little, and they said that we would close all chapters sometime by the middle of the first half of next year so that at this moment I do not see what it is and without early elections, the deadline for the Croatian negotiations has moved. If President Barroso, the President of the European Commission did not want to say anything about the deadline for the conclusion of the negotiations and if he said that everything depends on Croatia now, then let us at least expect from the Prime Minister that if it is up to it, or this government that is there and will be there until the new elections, if it is up to it, then we expect at least to be told clearly when Croatia can end negotiations so that we know eventually in the event of early elections which are delayed and what is because of the early elections went wrong about the negotiations. Therefore, the Prime Minister himself said in Brussels the other day that by the end of the year seven chapters of these 11 will be closed, which is once again a shift compared to the previous statement that only two chapters would remain for the next year, so now he will be talking about 4 chapters and all of us seem to be having a total activity at the conclusion of European negotiations and not being handled in a way that guarantees that any deadline can be taken as accurate and accurate enough to then talk about how early elections would spoil that sufficiently precise deadline. Of course, there remain two major chapters on shipbuilding, i.e. competition and on justice and fundamental rights. There is something even more difficult about how to determine what this delay is in negotiations with the European Union at all. The section on shipbuilding has been badly negotiated by the government in the way it negotiated and dynamically introduced European rules under which the shipbuilding must operate without state support. She has also accepted a way and dynamics that is simply unsustainable for the condition in which both our shipyards and even shipbuilding are in the world. The government and the negotiating team have failed to convince European partners that the restructuring of shipbuilding at this time is impossible and dangerous under the conditions of the global economic crisis and an even greater crisis in the ship and shipping market. Worse still, this government did not deal with the problem of shipbuilding restructuring when possible, there in 2004 to 2009. Croatia has accepted in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement the obligation to introduce European competition rules in the field of shipbuilding, but has also been left behind in the agreement for a transitional period of 4 years. There is also a possibility that this government has never used, if it thought it necessary, certain safeguard clauses that in the event of major disturbances, different solutions are also sought. The member states sought different solutions despite all competition rules when it came to the survival of their banks, their car companies. Therefore, leaving the shipbuilding fate to be decided in Brussels is certainly not something any government, the new government under these negotiated conditions for which it could find a good solution. I think I'm afraid we're facing the fact that only the next government can seek a smaller and bad solution to shipbuilding because the situation is already so corrupt that there's no government that can fix it all the way. The prime minister did not call either the opposition or representatives of opposition parties when she agreed in Brussels on these unacceptable conditions of shipbuilding restructuring. Therefore, if the speech is that we have a dialogue on everything that needs to be done to complete the negotiations, that dialogue should have started much earlier, not until tomorrow as the prime minister intended. We also come to the area of justice, to the area of fundamental rights. In this area, negotiations go at a pace that is simply not fast enough. Croatia enters the sixth year of negotiations. The fastest negotiators before us were Slovaks two years and nine months old and it is difficult to expect to complete the negotiations before the seventh year of negotiations. Therefore, this is about the area in which the judicial authorities are acting, which is independent, non-political. Aren't they? And only on the government's side is it allowed to create an atmosphere, a political atmosphere and a political will that will show that we have reached a point of no return. This is what they will evaluate in the European Union, and have we not reached the end of a perfect situation in the judiciary. The guarantee of what point has been reached is whether we have come to the point that we can no longer return to the old, in the area of judicial reform and general fundamental rights. I don't think this government with everything it's caused in the economic, social and political crisis can be the best guarantee that going back to the past won't be. Therefore, early elections in this area of justice also mean a step forward, which means a greater guarantee that Croatia is reaching European standards in the judiciary. Therefore, early elections are necessary not only to correct the situation caused by the economic crisis, but also to make Croatia a decisive and final move towards the conclusion of negotiations with the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61246	Thank you very much. We have a report of three corrections. First of all, dear colleague Shuica. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61247	Mr. Vice President, here's Mr. Mimica, in his statement, said that a government that doesn't want to take over, that this is a government that doesn't want to take responsibility. On the contrary, this particular government wants to take responsibility and therefore does not want to end early elections. Secondly, two thesis presented by Mr. Mimica concerned competition and justice. In your own statement, you said it was impossible today to restructure it and you say that no other government could do it or very difficult. And secondly, you told the judiciary that they were independent judicial bodies so that we could let them do what this government does but let them do. Therefore, you did not explain the reasons for the early elections. Mostly in that weight of yours was antithesis.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61248	Thank you. Correction of the quote, esteemed colleague Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61249	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect for my colleague Mimica that the president should have come and said what was wrong with the negotiations. Nothing went wrong, exactly the opposite. Since the Prime Minister, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, has set out on the contrary, it has taken a positive and faster course of the negotiation process, and here is a closer approach to the end of the negotiations. So you can't say that she needs to explain something that went wrong. Nothing went wrong. Also yesterday, the European Commission and Commission President Barroso and Vivian Reding also told you, etc. Either you don't listen to what they're saying or you want to create the image that you want it to be, but that's not true. That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61250	Thank you. And the correction of the quote, dear colleague Davor Huška. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61251	Mr. Vice-President, my colleague Mimica said that with any early elections, Croatia does not lose anything in negotiations with the European Union. That's incorrect. The relevant representatives of the European Union, representatives of different diplomatic representations in our country, which is carried on by almost all Croatian media, and it is known to almost everyone who is talking about this topic and claim that Croatia is losing at least half a year in negotiations with the European Union in the event of early elections, that it loses a minimum half of a year in making important strategic decisions and implementing projects that have been launched, and which is extremely important in terms of estimates of about one and a half billion euros from European funds in the event of early elections. So please really be honest, so tell us if it's what the SDP wants for Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61252	Thank you. Now, in front of the government, the honourable Minister Jandrokovic appeared. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61253	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear fellow MPs and MPs. As a resolute competent minister, I would briefly refer to Mr Mimica's exposure, and I would like to say that I find it almost incredible that he, as a man who should know well the way the European Union works, how the competent authorities of the European Union function, how Member States function can speak to each other in the way he spoke. I can understand that this is how Mr Mondekar speaks who does not know much about it, but Mr Mimica knows how bodies within the European Union function. So, he does not do what he does out of ignorance, but does it on purpose to harm and I will now say it openly because there is no reason not to say that he would slow Croatia's path to the European Union, so that this government would not sign an accession contract but to sign it probably one day in his dreams a new mandater who would be a candidate who would come before the SDP. However, this will not happen and what happened a few days ago in Brussels, I think it is clear to everyone. It was visible that the messages were particularly strong messages from the Vice-President of the European Commission, Commissioner Reding, who made it clear that Croatia is going in a good direction, supporting the government, supporting the Prime Minister as a strong, courageous woman who is fighting corruption. And the most important issue right now when it comes to Croatia's entry is corruption. Those who dispute this today, who are resisting this fight against corruption, and today's discussion shows that it is you who are slowing Croatia's path towards the European Union, as in those crucial, most important moments you wanted and tried to slow down, that it is you who are making it impossible to join NATO, and today, the situation, the external and political situation of Croatia, would be completely contrary to what you wanted us to do, today you are equally irresponsible to the European Union. But you acted equally when talking about Croatia's independence, when you left the assembly, so it's one continuity, independence, NATO, the European Union, and I think it's pretty clear to anyone who's watching this. So in the event of early elections, if you today, and you will not, of course, vote no confidence in the government, the government leading Croatia would not only be a technical government, it would be the government in resignation. So where did the government get the legitimacy to restore the Croatian judiciary? Why does this government have the legitimacy for several other very important, very difficult decisions to make? Of course she's not here. And that is quite clear to you, and to you, Mr Mimica, it is clear to the Member States, and to all those who from the European Union are following what is happening in Croatia. So as Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integrations, I am responsible for saying that early elections will take place, there would be a significant delay in the conclusion of the negotiations and not just for us, but because of the very European Union itself, in which very complex processes are also taking place. And it is no longer a secret, after Croatia there will be a slowdown of enlargement, it is no longer a secret that some other contracts that are important to the European Union are connected to the Croatian contract. Do we have to play with our own destiny, should we risk what we've been through all these years of hard-working negotiations here we have fought and we are in the finale. Mr. Mimica, you've negotiated a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and today you're saying that the shipbuilding is badly negotiated. So how can you as a man who ran and misnegotiated the Stabilisation and Association Agreement today talk about being poorly negotiated shipbuilding? Who today is also the attitude towards the restructuring of shipbuilding, as well as the relationship to the fight against corruption, is in fact the relationship towards Croatia's entry into the European Union. So you complain about what's right for anyone who knows things clearly, and you understand. So you're not doing it because you don't know, but because you want to fool Croatian citizens. And the dynamics of the negotiations. You mentioned we've been negotiating for a long time. Why are we negotiating long? Who in this House opened the first debate over ZERP, and which government and what ruling majority made that decision, which has caused us a stalemate in the negotiations? Who paraphrased the Racan-Drnovsek agreement, what took us another year? So who left mines in our negotiations, but SDP. And today you can tell us why we're negotiating. We negotiate with one solid dynamic, given the current situation within the Union itself, how complex negotiations are, no more within the Union itself, we are clearly given your negotiations are more complex than those that were before you, they are more complex, because of the experience we have gained and therefore you negotiate this complex, so you have Benchmarks, which is why you have 35 chapters, it's not our fault, it's the experience that the Europeans gained in the past wave of enlargement. But to calm you down, we'll end the negotiations in the first half of next year, we'll probably close the seven by the end of this most likely, and in the next year, early next year, the other six chapters, because there are 35, 33 are being negotiated, and everything will be fine. Obviously, I'm sorry for your loss. As far as the judiciary is concerned, I think that everything said by the Commissioner who deals with this job in the European Commission, everything is going well, we are implementing reforms, especially important, I repeat, is a fight against corruption, in which this government, this Prime Minister, has really excellent results. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61254	Thank you. First, on behalf of the Proposer. Mr. Mimica, we have 11 credentials, so let's get rid of it, and then I'll give you my word. Let's take it in a row. Dear colleague of Luke Denon, the first reported for correction of the quote. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61255	I am correcting Mr. Minister's imprecise that this debate that my colleague Mimica had is about to slow down the path to the European Union. As you probably listened to this whole day's debate, so you probably heard that there was a communist avet again harassing this Parliament and in this Croatia, how you probably remembered it well, and I remembered your and your other ministers' promises, so I was already in Europe in 2007 and 2009, and now I understand after this debate why we won't be in Europe. You know, in Europe, you're sitting, except for left, right, green factions, sitting and communists, so now I understand why you don't care as soon as you get to Europe, because how you're gonna deal with European communists, when you can't deal with your own communists in your own ranks. And of course, another incorrect assumption that we slowed down our NATO entry. Excuse me, Mr. Minister, we asked for a referendum to be decided by the people, but unlike us, we are not afraid of our people.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61256	Thank you. Davor Bernardić, rectification of the quote. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61257	Unfortunately, I didn't write fast enough, so I only recorded nine incorrect allegations, but I don't know if I'll have time for everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61258	Two of the most important please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61259	You said that a colleague of Mimica said that the government was deliberately working to slow down the negotiations. He said it exclusively well-meaningly, so the SDP would speed up negotiations. You said the SDP slowed down the fight against corruption. That's incorrect. The SDP speeds up the fight against corruption, and it is seen today, and it has been seen these days. You said we wanted to challenge Croatia's entry into NATO. No, we made it possible as a SDP for Croatia to join NATO, later it was a technical process. It's like going, sending someone to the bakery, and then somebody comes back to you and says he didn't know where that bakery was. And you said the shipbuilding wasn't, that the shipbuilding was negotiated in a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Well, as minister, they should know that shipbuilding can't be the subject of a Stabilisation and Association Agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61260	Thank you, thank you. ... Please, let's just take it easy so somebody doesn't have to go to the bakery 'cause now the fresh buns could come in handy. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] And we're moving on with the quote corrections, Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic. My colleagues, Bonačić, I think you've picked up the plate too. You didn't? If you're not, then it's Sobol's esteemed colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61261	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister argued that after today's debate, listening to everything said in this Chamber, it was us who would stop the fight against corruption. Said and stayed alive. Mr. Secretary, until yesterday, you were sitting in the government doing everything you could with Eve Sanader not accidentally opening any affair, not one investigation. You've been silent and sitting in that government and holding panegirics to your former prime minister and beloved leader. And now come in here and get us some proof and tell us that those of us who were at the time were talking about the need to open up various investigations, affairs, etc., now you're saying that we are not going to fight corruption. It would be funny if it weren't tragic and it wasn't from the mouth of a foreign minister. Why didn't you talk about it two or three years ago, Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61262	Thank you, thank you. ... Let's not throw it away. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61263	Well, you see, Mr. Minister, I'm the first one to talk about it, and you know very well why. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61264	Thank you. Minister, it is next, dear colleague Dino Kozlevac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61265	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues. Well, Mr. Minister, if it's too much of you. Just two incorrect allegations. First, the shipbuilding is poorly negotiated, yes, it is. Prove to yourself what's going on these days in the squares. Second, that the SDP was against NATO, EU, etc. was incorrect. In 2000, the SDP has just begun the process of approaching the EU. Therefore, to create the impression that the SDP is an anti-European party I think is inappropriate and that it belongs in the manner in which you have also washed yourself from your former boss who created you and led you to that place where you are today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61266	Thank you. The correction of the quote goes on, distinguished colleague Mirjana Feric-Vac. Here you go, pals. ... Minister, you're looking for a word from the Minister, but not from the bench, but from behind the pay phone. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61267	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. You said an absolutely incorrect allegation that the SDP is slowing Croatia's entry into the EU. Mr. Ministers, in 2000, when the SDP began to act as its coalition authority, we found a devastated area of international relations, devastated Mr. Minister, in which there was no trust, there was no dialogue, there was no open conversation. One was said in Brussels and some places where people shook hands and the other here. At that time, the coalition government had closed the area of monitoring in the Council of Europe and postmonitoring, Mr. Minister, as well. And Croatia could then go with President Racan and submit the documentation to Thessaloniki and you know it very well. And this part of the people here who know anything about it should have already informed them as you need to inform citizens about the EU. And one part of these walked out of this assembly when it was voted on the Association Agreement. Walked, didn't have the courage to be either for, or against, or abstention. So much for credibility. And that the EU is a programme and the objective of the SDP is that you do not need to convince us here in the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61268	Thank you, colleague. Furthermore, the correction of the alleged esteemed colleague Karolina Leaković. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61269	I would correct the quote of Mr. Minister who actually said one amazing thing, which is that it has in some way brought into question free and democratic elections and has said in some way that the elections consider stability a threat to national interests and the accession of the Republic of the European Union. Mr. Minister, I understand that you, as a member of the HDZ, do not believe in the possibility of a choice because you in your party have never actually held the right democratic elections between several candidates. After all, you are as current, if I am not mistaken, the president of the town of Zagreb's HDZ is, in fact, somewhat, detroved in that place. So you're not selected. But here's what talks more about yours, it's your party people, you have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61270	My colleagues, but what did you correct tell me?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61271	Well, I told you at first. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61272	The President of the City Organisation of Zagreb was elected. It's very important for the government to function.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61273	I said that Mr. Minister questioned the elections as a voiced doubt, in fact, in the elections as a legitimate way of coming to power and in some ways characterised them by the threat of stability, the threat of national interests and the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. And in some ways, he wanted to say that if elections were to happen and if they happened, they would stop the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61274	Thank you. A colleague, Slavko Linic. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61275	I'm correcting an incorrect statement from the minister that the shipbuilding is well-negotiated. In 2002, 8.5 billion taxpayers' funds were spent to cover the shipbuilding dubiosis. In October 2002, a complete programme was built and a proposal for what should be done in shipbuilding. In 2003, the late Racan government gave a negative assessment to the authorities for the implementation of these structural changes in shipbuilding. At the handover, former coalition government minister Jurcic particularly drew attention to the shipbuilding problem, and then for 5 years you did nothing. In the summer of 2008, the SDP Club proposes to you again the same measures. In order for your government to sign commitments to the EU at the end of 2008 for 2 privatisations and after that bankruptcy. Yeah, it's a poorly run job. Seven years of abandoned shipbuilding and ultimately signed death row in diplomacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61276	Thank you. My colleague, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61277	I would correct the incorrect assumption that the SDP actually wants to extend this story about the conclusion of the negotiations and that we are against it. In fact, the length of negotiations with the EU is not conditioned that some political party wants to be in power or in opposition, but that it is not enough for us to pass the laws on which we put the clause that are in line with European legislation but that we must implement them. And that's exactly the problem that we're not carrying out that actually extends our negotiations. As to whether the SDP is for the EU or not, I would like to remind you. During the adoption of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement here in the Croatian Parliament, your party fled the hall to avoid voting. And as for the protected eco-fishing belt, then the members of your club demanded that an economic belt be made, they called ZERP a strange beak and did nothing in a year to apply it, so, in the meantime, when we do not apply it, Italy and Slovenia both made the same decision. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61278	Thank you. Gordan Maras, correction of an incorrect quote. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61279	Thank you very much. Mr Jandrokovic said one fact that does not stand and that is that SDP plant bombs, clips, mines, does not want Croatia in the EU, and it is a paradox to say that by 2000 in OMV when Croatia was an isolated country, when we did not have any access to European integration and when it was precisely the change of government that opened and launched the European path of the Republic of Croatia. And that's when the SDP was in power. Mr. Jandrokovic was, of course, nowhere near the international relations at this level at which today he was brought by his former political mentor and chief Ivo Sanader, who is now the first in charge of HDZ to declare various epithets. That speaks enough of Mr. Jandrokovic's credibility which, as one journalist said, would have been probably without pants if it hadn't been for Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61280	Let's not do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61281	And there's one more thing I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61282	Who'd be without underpants if we didn't do it like that? ... You're out of time, pal. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Thank you. And we've been dealing with transferable meaning all the time. Time's up. Thank you, counsel. Dear colleague Leko, you have reached out to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61283	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Minister, when there are no arguments, then reaches for the accreditation of other policies. In fact, the minister has indeed reported here, and this is amazing, which is that the SDP is blasting Croatia's entry into the EU. Ministers, so the SDP government changed the direction of Croatian politics and concluded a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. During that period, she took responsibility for the state when the state was isolated from what counterpart Feric-Vac spoke about. Not only was she insulated in political terms but she couldn't get a loan, the credit rating was to say she lost to politics. So, Mr. Minister, you better tell us how it happened that you promised to bring Croatia into the EU in 2007 and now it's seven years. There is no deadline, no deadline, no serious warnings from the EU or obligation to tell citizens when and under what conditions and what it brings to Croatian citizens. This policy does not contribute to the EU nor to the standard of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This is proof of what happened to Bulgarians and Romanians, the entry was unprepared.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61284	Thank you. Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61285	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61286	Excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61287	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to thank the foreign minister for the awe he has shown towards the power and influence of the SDP in Croatian politics, because he has rated us as a party that can plant on its activities the cliques of the government that can slow down negotiations, which can work and influence the work of the judicial authorities, which can affect the work of the ministry and all those in the executive power in charge of the EU negotiation process. Of course, the SDP neither wants nor has that political power as an opposition party, but what the SDP certainly has as a political party, it is a European orientation, as SDP has since the beginning of the original European party and, in all its activities, shows how interested it is in Croatia's recent entry into the EU. That is why it is unnecessary to lose words and to find arguments that would confirm it, because the Croatian public knows it well, regardless of what I would continue to say in favour of the European orientation of the SDP. What was also discussed in the presentation of the Government's representatives was the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and how the shipbuilding in the agreement was negotiated. I said that first, you will not find any word of shipbuilding anywhere in the SAA, nothing specific for shipbuilding has been negotiated, the conditions under which Croatia will introduce competition rules are negotiated, meaning the functioning of all in Croatia without state support without what violates competition rules. Shipbuilding is part of it and, of course, it is good that it was then negotiated and the obligation for shipbuilding to fit into such a European state aid system. What followed was practically leading to this situation in shipbuilding, not the very provisions of the SAA, which did not lead to this restructuring of shipbuilding, but led to the inaction of HDZ governments since 2004, because it was one thing to restructure Croatian shipbuilding in the time before the crisis, without crisis, on the normal market of shipbuilding and ship space there somewhere in 2006, and the seventh and eighth were to be restructured under the conditions of the crisis in 2009 and the tenth when it started. Therefore, our objections go in the direction of accepting that no transitional period is required to restructure shipbuilding in times of crisis, at a time when all EU member states have also sought exemptions from the hard, firm rules of competition in order to help parts of their economies. Therefore, the problem with shipbuilding is therefore under conditions which have been accepted and which have been practically brought out by the European Commission and then accepted by Croatian negotiators. Of course, it is difficult to expect that, in a time of crisis like this, whether this government or any other government will make the programme through the end, the restructuring programme will be implemented in a way that will be a good solution for shipbuilding. Finally, I will not assess the way the European foreign minister institutions function, I will not go to the extent that the negotiation process has personally contributed to the acceleration of this process, but I would refer to something he said, and what is being set up in public as an argument why elections must be on a regular basis and why the HDZ practically must win these elections. In fact, he is trying to argue, trying to convince the Croatian public that this is Europe's position, I don't know who in Europe, European institutions, European politicians, European statesmen, European state policies, that if you have early elections in Europe, you won't do anything for 6 months, if you have European elections against corruption, you will stop if you have early elections in Croatia, we are no longer sure that Croatia will be a country that will eventually end the negotiations. Those who know the way European institutions function, the European state institutions will certainly never claim it because the European state institutions are the elections whenever they are held in a regular or extraordinary period are the expression of the democratic will of the constitutional order and of the highest values on which all the Member States of the European Union are based. Therefore, the elections are the internal affairs of the Member State or in this case the internal affairs of Croatia and the internal policy of the European Union will not and will not come from such messages that would basically mean interference in domestic matters in Croatia. If from a European political family, if such messages have come, this could mean solidarity with this and this kind of HDZ policy with such a policy that has been keeping Croatia too long in the social, economic and political crisis, but then such messages by political families and political groups cannot be undermined under the support of the European Union, the regular elections and support of the HDZ as the only guarantee that its victory and in these regular elections will ensure Croatia's entry into the European Union. Such messages do not come from Europe, this is not a European policy, and I am sure, because of Croatia's European perspective, because of European urgency, because of Croatia's European potential, it is good that we solve this issue as soon as possible and as quickly as possible from the crisis in the right democratic way, in the constitutional way of early elections, because this solves many of the dilemmas that we have talked about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61288	Two corrections. First, Ms. Representative Marija Pejcinović Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61289	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I have to do to correct my esteemed colleague Mimica in his claim that early elections would not interfere with the negotiations. I am really surprised and sorry that such claims come from him who knows very well the process of the functioning of European institutions and the process of negotiations. Early elections at this point would hinder negotiations because it simply works so that they would just slow down the things they too have to do. And it would be enough, no matter what our side does, that these negotiations move even up to half a year, if not more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61290	And Madam Representative Bozica Solic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61291	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is MP Mimica, I will quote him in his debate: "SDP has been the original European party since the beginning". That's not true. Now, you must first declare what your source is and since you count your start, because in the 1990s you went to elections called the Croatian-SDP Communists' Union, means reformed communists. You must say since you started being the original European party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61292	Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61293	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This morning I was thinking if this debate was necessary and why we're going to spend a day's work. But during the debate, I realized that it was really necessary even though it was the fact that we have our own aspirations, you have your own aspirations and we will hardly convince each other otherwise. It is also the fact that you are all morning and day all call upon that most Croatian people think that this government should leave and constantly call on not some source. I don't know if it's a 49% poll, if that 49% poll I honestly doubt is still not 50%. Therefore, there is not enough legitimacy in what you say that the Croatian people would like urgent early elections. The timing was a word we've heard here many times this morning, so if it's the right time, if it's the right choice, if it's the right time. It is definitely not the right time and I am also convinced that early elections would slow our entry into the European Union. Before that, however, the topic was the confidence of the Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor, and we had a business opportunity, or the Prime Minister had an opportunity within 8 to 30 days. As you can see, today is the eighth day, and on that very first day, Mrs. Kosor wanted us to discuss the subject and take it off the agenda so that she could continue doing her job uninterruptedly. We know and you know we have 82 MPs, maybe more. I'm sure you know that tonight this debate will end in favour of President Kosor and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but here perhaps it is not bad to face arguments and to see little as which one of us thinks. You know, we talked more than once about correcting incorrect allegations this morning and tried to challenge your thesis that Mrs. Kosor was not elected to the election. I repeat, the president of the Croatian government, or prime minister, is elected in the Croatian Parliament, most of the MPs in the Croatian Parliament, and these are not direct elections. So, the president of the Croatian government is not elected in direct elections. The president herself confirmed her legitimacy as did all of us in the election in her constituency. After that, she confirmed it here last year with most of the votes in the Croatian Parliament and the signatures that she gave to the then president of the Croatian state. I would like to return to these three pillars of the Croatian government. This is the faster the entry into the European Union, the fight against corruption and organised crime and economic recovery. Before I say a few words about the European Union, the strongest party in the European Parliament today afternoon has issued a statement repeating the full support of Prime Minister Kosor and most strongly rejects the irresponsible and immature claims made by Zoran Milanovic on the reputation of the prime minister and the international position of Croatia. The EPP is not only the strongest party in the European Parliament. From the ranks of that party are also President of the Council of the European Union Herman van Rompuy, representative of the European Commission, Mr Barroso, but most heads of state such as Mrs Merkel and Mr Sarkozy. I know that perhaps Mr Mimic will say that these are the families you were talking about earlier. However, it is not negligible for this large family in the European Parliament and also for the Council of Europe. In two of his bodies, both in Congress and in the Parliamentary Assembly, the European People's Party makes up the majority. Today's accusations by Mr Milanovic were unfounded and maligned, so even the strongest European party had the need to react this afternoon and said in that statement that Mr Milanovic was politically and relevant in Brussels. So much for the reputation of Prime Minister Kosor and for the immature and for Croatia with the harmful statements of the SDP president. I would suggest that SDP representatives open up the IPPEU page and read what they have achieved today and that you and your boss are in fact, and that you and your boss, when the word used today has been disgraced, have shamed themselves even though it is not my style. But since you've been making a constant disgrace today, I think that this is how you've been embarrassed in the eyes of the Croatian and European public. I will repeat that Mrs. Kosor has launched a negotiation procedure that has stopped. Mrs Kosor also brought into this Croatian Assembly the arbitration agreement on which the SDP was constructively restrained. All chapters are also open. And we know everything further so we don't repeat what we said this afternoon. There are also separate negotiations on the border issue, and I would like to remind you of the Drnovšek – Racan agreement that also made it impossible for us to join faster. It is not negligible to repeat those three and a half billion euros as much as Mr. Mondekar will say that we will spend 600 million, and the question is whether we will make it up to them. I believe we will, and only if we're constructive, if we all solve this issue together. We've said several times about this question that we have a consensus. Well, we have a consensus. You yourself know that Mrs Pusic is the chairman of the National Council for the Monitoring of Negotiations in the Committee on European Integration almost always has a consensus. I honestly thought that we were in line on this issue of the European Union. You yourself know that we are making every effort, that the government is making every effort and that this Parliament is also doing that our Committee on European Integration is passing all the laws as quickly as possible. But as much as it depends on us, you know it's not all about us. I won't say any further than this. You yourself know how Europe works. I am particularly speaking to Mr Mimica because I know that he knows how these mechanisms are going and that Croatia will certainly finish negotiations next year and will become 28 members in 2012. It is not worth mentioning what was said about this morning, that 12 MPs and all those functions that belong to us as a member state are already mentioned and that the Croatian language will become the official language. Well, it wasn't mentioned by accident. So we're sure there's going to be that entrance, but the date of course is hard to say here right now. As far as the second stage of fighting corruption, the president may love her or not love her, you may like her or not like her. But in this part of her struggle is uncompromising and she's the leader in this matter and there's no point in me repeating this here anymore. I believe that you too believe that a political framework has been created that we are the ones in this Croatian Parliament who have passed all the laws that allow today to work both to the DORH and other institutions. I believe you feel the same way, but, of course, in a political struggle, you offer against arguments. And as far as I'm concerned, the third pillar is the economic recovery. I am sure that this fight against corruption has, of course, direct links to economic recovery and I am convinced that this is not done in Croatia because of the entry into the European Union, but is done solely because of our children and our future. And I am sure that we all want to do this together because of the future of the Croatian state, not because of the entry into the European Union, which does not mean that they will not reflect this and negotiate as quickly as possible. Speaking of economic recovery, the Economic Recovery Plan has been adopted. Today we got on the bench a report on that plan and the program. There are a lot of measures that we have been taking here in the Croatian Parliament for days, changing the laws, and of course these measures cannot be seen in one day. These are long-term measures, and I'm not sure you do, either. But simply in the heat of political struggle suit you differently. We're for regular elections, because we'd certainly be stopped from negotiating and everything would be on hold. And I'd like you as a SDP say I don't have anything to give you recommendations, but still remind you of '92. A year when you didn't know for what reason you were then leaving the assembly. When NATO was, you were in favour of a referendum, which would also hold us back a little bit. When it came to the question of Slovenia, you were constructively restrained. Well, it would be a shame that now at this historic moment when Croatia wants to join the European Union, it is in a certain way calling for early elections that you are still holding back. And I believe you'll come to your senses. We'll have enough votes tonight. And I'm sure she'll get the trust of President Kosor. And the SDP reminds me I have to say on a river that is very wide, perhaps 100 meters deep, and that it is easily run over, easily dried and will not leave a deep foundation if you continue to behave like this in topics that are of real historical importance to the Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61294	Thank you. One correction and six replicas. First correction by Mrs. Ingrid Antičevice Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61295	You are saying that Croatia is already in economic recovery. That's incorrect. We're still sinking. That's what all the data shows you. So with this rhetoric, you underestimate Croatian citizens. HDZ is obviously not aware of the deficit, nor is the deficit of its own policy. The government is obviously in conflict with its own citizens. There was a golden age remembered in Greece. It was Perikla's time. Obviously, a small parallel will also be remembered during HDZ just in Croatia's history as a golden age, but unfortunately as a golden age of organised crime and corruption. Therefore, my proposal would be to encourage the Government to sign the resignation and never make their hands at the signing fairer and more useful procedure for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61296	First replica, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61297	Well, fellow Members, you were in a dilemma whether to go into debate or not. Well, I'm sure we should go into debate. It needs these unargumented criticisms that try and think only of themselves and in a way that would get the authorities to answer. I think it should also be said that the actual time of the masquerade is just coming and there's no reason why you've brought on earlier masks. It would be good for you to take off those masks and be who you are and tell the public openly why you asked for the initiation of this procedure. So it is certainly not appropriate for you to have the HDZ government sign an accession agreement to join the European Union, and thus re-entering the party into Croatian history as a party that has introduced Croatia into NATO, as the party that has contributed most to the creation of the Croatian state, and normally it is not appropriate for you to be the same party that introduced Croatia into the European Union. And that's why we have to admit it to the public and we need to say it in front of all of us, and all the rest of what you're looking for is that there are some faceless excuses of yours, because what you've said so far doesn't drink water, because you know if you remember exactly that economic social part and that part of your time, so it was even harder, even harder situation and even harder time was in an economic and social sense than it is today. Look at the statistics if you don't believe it, I have it very well, so I can lend it to you if you don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61298	Replica reply, Mrs. Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61299	... I believe that it is legal and legitimate that such a request has come to the Croatian Parliament, that is what I said at the beginning of the debate, and I would love to have everyone make their arguments, and if we somehow tried to respect each other. [[You don't understand.]] I am also sure that the Croatian Democratic Community, led by Mrs Kosor, will introduce Croatia into the European Union, but I will consider it and I would like you to believe that we have brought Croatia together into the European Union, especially because I mentioned that several bodies in which... It works on a consensus basis, and I think it's the only way. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] You understand that there will be no election, you realize that we have most and best to continue working together.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61300	Second replica, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61301	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague who's made such a fine diagnosis of what's going on, and that's good, because the fact is that all this right now that SDP is trying to start with the announcement of leaving the recession, the announcement of recovery and the quality measures they've proposed, which they unfortunately haven't read. Here you can clearly see good support for what you have listed, so good support from the European People's Party, leadership, so many major countries in Europe, so which you have named names, and also those leaders have said something else, added that Zoran Milanovic is irrelevant to the political scene of Europe, but is not irrelevant to the political scene of this part, because by giving support to the SDP of Bosnia and Herzegovina, he has failed all Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because he helped lead, that in the name of the Croats, a man who was elected by someone else, not Croats, enters the presidency. So all the honors of a great European political success.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61302	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61303	Mr. Markovanovic, on the first part of your replica, I want to repeat that the government has adopted a programme of economic recovery, but it is not alone, the government has created a framework. I mean, it's not the government that, or Mrs. Kosor, is the only one who can help. So you must include the opposition, and ruling both the media, and the unions, and the businessmen, whether they domestic or foreign, with their investments. The government adopted this programme, the other day we had the opportunity to hear about 30 major energy projects in Croatia, and this is the moment to join in on such a serious work. As for Mr Milanovic, who you mentioned, I don't share your opinion, I think he's irrelevant on the domestic stage.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61304	Thank you. Ms. Representative Sunday Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61305	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's my colleague Shuica, I actually have to say I really liked your debate, in which you've made an excellent cut of all the activities that this government, headed by President Mrs. Kosor, is actually doing, in fact, you've walked through three very important I would say segments, first through actually entering and step, the last steps this government is taking to enter a large broad family of Europe. The second through the economic recovery of Croatia, and it seems to me that this high degree of misunderstanding of macroeconomic indicators is on the other hand one of the sources among others and raising the issue of trust among the Prime Ministers. And as the third thing, the third pillar, the uncompromising fight against corruption. The fact is that you in this exhibit are actually in, you're kind of going to agree with me to actually say that today our citizens and citizens could have heard through today's debate actually what the government has done in a positive way on all these three pillars. Well then the people would also say every evil for some good, and I believe that this, today's debate, is not in any way lost time, but quite positively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61306	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61307	Well, of course, when it comes to the reforms we talked about earlier, and we've heard more times this morning that reforms have not happened, and reforms are ongoing. The fact is that there is no support for reform, is the fact that I can illustrate it is the adoption of the Labour Law. ... We wanted to amend a few articles of the Labour Act, which we wanted to harmonise collective agreements and the Government, and then the Parliament came up with resistance not only from the unions but also from the support of the SDP, by signing that referendum and by including in support of the referendum. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] So, the reforms you just didn't want us to, you didn't want to help.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61308	Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61309	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament and here you have noticed that the power of arguments on one side and on the other I would say that the arguments are also a broad term, but what is trying to get through this debate today is to throw it away, as the smoke curtain would say, on the story of communism, around the EU, and less and less focus on the uncertainty that Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy feel. And that's the key problem in this country. Uncertainty for investments that have fallen, the uncertainty of domestic and foreign investors that have capital but do not know under what conditions they will operate tomorrow. Why? Because taxes can be changed overnight, increased, parafiscal imposed, the continuation of the project could be disabled, certain things can be achieved for a reasonable European community, for a reasonable European society almost impossible. And then in that situation, you have a clue of the global crisis of the financial crisis that has gripped Europe's opportunity to fix some things earlier when it wasn't in our backyard yet. But then the crisis, this same crisis, was denied, was perceived as not having it, as if it were going to bypass us, and it actually hit us unprepared, and I would say intoxicated in that part where it didn't react to the crisis. And as a consequence of such a situation, the SDP proposes its measures to save the Croatian economy. At the same time as the EU does, at the same time as President Obama does with his administration, but it does not find hearing in the ruling majority and a year and a half afterwards, 80,000 people are on the road, many people are doing it, and they do not receive wages. They're waiting maybe, I say maybe their bankruptcy. New taxes have come, living standards have fallen, uncertainty has been created in the area of investment, and in the meantime, the internal indifference that has galloped over the last 2 years has grown to 32 billion kuna. And how can a man open a new job when he hasn't been given a commitment since last year? And that's the basic question the SDP is asking here. How to activate capital, how to boost investment, how to boost employment, how to create new jobs. That's what you're not even able to give answers to and what you've been late for. And I don't like anyone here, and I can especially say that on behalf of the citizens when things are being run.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61310	My colleague, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61311	Slowing negotiations with the EU and returning... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61312	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61313	Mr. Bernardic, I have not mentioned the word Communism once in my debate, and you have replicated it to me. I haven't told you anything about communism at all, but now that you've encouraged me, then I'm going to mention the legacy of communism, and about this particular investment you're talking about. It was this government that allowed them to be brought in within 45 days, that they could obtain construction permits for large investments if property-legal relations were resolved. And property-legal relations are probably not resolved in many cases because it is the legacy of unresolved relations from the 50-year system when books were not kept properly, when they passed from social to private, etc. As far as investment conditions are concerned, I have mentioned 30 major investments that the government is preparing and are under way. It is also known in economic practice when structural reforms are being carried out by this government take time to feel changes and to make these greenfield investments succeed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61314	And Mr. Agent Daniel Mondekar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61315	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, so you've run the story well to finish what I said and my colleague Matusic, I'm glad he's here and my colleague Schuker. As far as European money is concerned, what I wanted to say clearly is that at this point, so if we got in Brussels last week's analysis that they were doing at DG Original Policy then you probably got it, too. And the analysis says that at this point in 2010. Croatia does not yet have the capacity to successfully do the job in 2012-2013. That was my line. So, what's the deal? In order for Croatia to spend this money we received and to fight for more money in the next financial period we must certainly close negotiations by mid next year because Croatia also has and not exactly some friends in the EU who want to move it and who openly say that Croatia has already received too much. And that's where we have to prove ourselves. And the proof in this financial sense must be spent in 2012 and ended in 2013 with the IPA, spent as much as they gave us, and even with the use of this Colloquial bombing to Brussels with the projects for 2014 that in the overall formula when we will be counted on and the GDP we are fighting for more money. By the assessment of Brussels at this point we do not have these capacities and they openly believe that we should employ up to 10 times as many people as we have. And it's unfortunately a vicious circle. They need to get paid, they need to be educated. And that's the problem. And let's not forget we EU have to give money into membership, fellow Shucker if I'm not wrong, it'll go through the loan, we'll be in credit, so we have to get it back and make projects, and for structural funds if you've been watching projects I've been looking for Italy, Austria, this stunt of paper one project. And you need to make them tens. And that's why you need to say what a colleague is. Prime Minister Kosor said you're not the money that's gonna save us because we don't have bianko on the table, we have to use them. And at this point technically, we still don't have the capacity. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61316	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61317	Well, you see, Mr. Mondekar, that's exactly why we need to hurry up, and we can't interrupt the early elections you've been talking about. You'll agree, it has a lot to do with it. First, the Croatian government is seriously working with the European Commission on all these projects. The European Commission is monitoring everything. There's a co-ordination at the ministerial level run by the finance minister, Mr. Schucker. And I don't think there'd be a clear plan about that capacity, I believe we can improve that. I'm sure that's what we're up to next year's work on. I am sure that the Croatian government would not make its own money, because it is both Croatian and European money so that I will now say in vain spend my money better put in the wrong way. I am therefore convinced that next year we will improve our capacities, but the finance minister is sure to follow it at the ministerial level and I believe that we will have opportunities to talk about it when the debate on spending money from European funds is held. And that's the point in this session.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61318	Mr. Representative Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61319	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Croatian government presidents, respected members and members of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So here today, we've been discussing the SDP proposal and other opposition deputies all day, and this is about starting a trust issue with the government's presidents and thus the government as a whole. It is certainly the legitimate right of the SDP to seek the confidence of the Prime Minister or of a single minister at any time when there are business opportunities for this. It's your legitimate right and you've repeated it on several occasions today. But legitimately, it is our right in the HDZ and the coalition to expose and say what we think about the proposal that you explained in that handbook of yours, or the proposal that you delivered to us. In my opinion and in our club HDZ, this proposal to launch the process of responsibility is coming after your expectations that Croatia will be a tumultuous, hot political fall, and that "political democracy" will clearly bring down the Croatian government and will clearly leave power in the arms of the SDP and the Kukurik coalition in Croatia. But that expectation went wild. In the first row, your expectations were based on the fact that the Croatian government would be forced to rebalance the state budget, reduce social rights, reduce wages, reduce pensions, be forced to lay off due to the inability to finance from the state budget total public spending, and that there would likely be layoff of employees in the public sector. However, this did not happen and the government proposed a rebalancing in a way that decided not to further collapse citizens' standards, that it would not reduce wages, that it would not reduce pensions, because then indirectly it also meant reducing revenues to the state budget and that this difference between income and expenditure would allow for an increase in the government budget deficit to be sustainable to a reasonable limit. What results from your proposal is that the situation in Croatia is particularly disastrous in public finances and as an important reason the proposings cite the level of government budget deficit compared to the percentage of GDP on the one hand and the other side the height of the external debt of the Republic of Croatia in the first row of the debt of the general state. If that is not true, I will quote no data from the HDZ Club or from the SDP club, but I will quote data published by the EU Statistical Office on 22 October, so Eurostat, which says that when "the level of the state budget deficit is discussed as a percentage of the 27 EU member states' gross domestic product, only 8 EU members have a lower deficit in the state budget compared to the percentage of GDP of Croatia". And the data that speaks even more about the state of public finances in Croatia is the following. The same according to Eurostat data published 6 days ago, which is that "when it comes to the general debt of the state", therefore the amount of the debt "against Croatia's percentage of GDP among the 27 EU members ranks sixth". So only 5 EU Member States are less in charge of the Republic of Croatia when we talk about the debt of the general state. So much for the financial situation in Croatia. So, as the government managed to rebalance the budget and find the possibility to finance total public spending, clearly there was not so much for you expected and desired neither strikes nor protests, nor did any street democracy occur. Something else happened in Croatia, and this is that the SDP is now trying to demonstrate the disastrous state of Croatia of what it is not and is beginning to accuse the HDZ coalition partners of being responsible themselves if they continue to support this Croatian government and trying and expecting and proposing that part of the coalition majority MPs will join such a SDP requirement, which of course did not happen. That was one reason. And the other reason why today's debate comes and this proposal, which is on the benches today, is the fact that between SDPs is slowly getting nervous because it feels that Croatia is slowly coming out of the crisis through the implementation of the economic programme. And to justify the fact that Croatia is slowly coming out of the crisis and the recession I will provide some information that the government has also given in its statement on the proposal to launch the issue of responsibility of the Croatian government. According to data, it is again not the HDZ club but relevant international organisations in the last quarter of this year that are expected to grow around 1.5% of gross domestic product in Croatia. What is important and what the Prime Minister's already said in this morning's presentation, which is that industrial growth in Croatia at the international level records growth in September of 3%, that retail trade also recorded a growth of 3.9% when comparing August this year to August last year. It is very important for the highlighted data, therefore, that exports also increased by 13.4% in the first 8 months compared to the same month last year, while imports dropped by 4.2% at the same time. Not to mention, this year's tourist season is record-breaking and compared to the past, which was also a record-breaking growth of 3% overnight. It has also been said on several occasions today that, thanks to the measures of the Croatian government, there has been a state of affairs in public enterprises and that public companies are absolutely not liquidity generators in the Republic of Croatia because today public companies are paying all their obligations within their maturity. In addition to these reasons relating to the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme, there was certainly additional anxiety in the SDP ranks, and this was also the reason for proposing a question of responsibility to the Croatian Government is the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is slowly but successfully bringing the end of negotiations for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership in the European Union. And clearly, it is clear to all of us that Croatian citizens to the democratic community leading these negotiations, and clearly to its coalition partners, will approve the successful implementation and implementation of the completion of negotiations for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership in the European Union. The peak of absurdities in this proposal, which is the SDP club and individual MPs who supported the proposal to vote non-confidential to the prime minister, is the fact that it is transferring to this Croatian government that it has not done enough to combat corruption. About creating legal conditions, about creating material conditions in Croatia so that corruption and crime in the Republic of Croatia can be a result of this or that government, however. But only the arrival of President Jadranka Kosor at the head of the Croatian Government in the Republic of Croatia created a real atmosphere for the fight against crime and corruption, and it is clear that all those well-intentioned both in Croatia and outside Croatia recognize it. Therefore, in Croatia, it is absolutely no wonder that today's European People's Party, its Secretary-General, on behalf of and on behalf of President Martins, has made it clear what he thinks about today's debate where he said that today's accusations by the president of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia were so unfounded and maligned that even the strongest European party reacted with a statement saying that Mr Milanovic was politically irrelevant in Brussels. Therefore, it is clear that everyone has read what the SDP club meant with today's question of trust from the presidents of the Croatian government. It is more than clear to all of us, and I keep it clear that this debate has also shown how much the Croatian government and its president have done on their way out of the economic crisis, as well as in the fight against corruption, and also on the path of Croatia's accession to full membership in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61320	Thank you. Four corrections and six replicas. 4+6, 11. First Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61321	So it is an incorrect assumption that the SDP wishes this proposal, which he sent to Parliament to wish for demonstrations and that he is actually looking forward to a catastrophic country, a catastrophic state in the Republic of Croatia. That's not true. It is precisely an argument that here in Parliament we want to discuss the subject of what is prescribed by the Constitution that this is the case, so we are not doing it on the street or a referendum to call early elections or anything like that, but right here in Parliament. And the other thing is about getting out of the crisis. I really don't think it's appropriate for anyone here in the Croatian Parliament to accuse us of looking forward to being ill. I guess it doesn't occur to anyone that Croatia needs to be bad for someone political... And as for your alleged exit from the crisis, I'll just remind you, on 21 August 2009, Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor said we must be leaving the crisis very quickly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That was a year ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61322	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61323	Thank you very much. First of all, what I would like to express is the disfavor of the Croatian Radio Television, which is legally required to pass on this session, and according to the information I receive from the citizens who are monitoring the work of this session at 8 o'clock on the 2nd program, a film called the Far Horizons Replay began. So much for the fact that Croatian Radio Television respects the laws passed by this Assembly and conveys sessions that should be passed from beginning to end and the promise is ultimately made by Prime Minister Kosor, who said at the beginning of the session that this session will be transferred directly and if someone is watching on HRT, I think that Croatian citizens are more interested in this session than the Dalek Horizons in the review. And now if you'll give me five more seconds to correct Mr. Bačić's incorrect allegations that Croatian is coming out of the crisis. There is no relevant information on this matter. Seven consecutive neighborhoods, we're recording an economic downturn. When the first quarter is economic growth compared to the previous quarter, you can say that we are coming out of the economic crisis. Until that happens, you can't say it, and even when it does, it's gonna take us a lot of time to get to 2008 as much as we've lost 8% of GDP since then.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61324	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61325	It is an incorrect quote from counterpart Bacic that the country is coming out of the crisis and that the SDP, that the SDP, is concerned. It's both wrong. First of all, I think that in the way of Andrija Hebranga, you've made such a papasion of numbers, interpreting these numbers, but the exact numbers and these, the decline in employment, or the rise in unemployment, the prices of growth, the liquidity increase, the external debt rises, the deficit increases. Which is why it makes you convince us that, in what way, GDP falls, how we get out of the crisis, to accuse all of us who came out with a request to talk about this issue, to look forward to making our citizens worse is extremely malice and evil.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61326	Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61327	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bačić, you were talking about the deficit of the state budget and the responsibility of the central state. When you mentioned that the deficit is significantly lower than in many countries and the European Union and the world. Also, the central government's debt is below 50% of gross domestic product. I would just point out that even by these criteria, but also by many criteria that are often not used in Croatia, Croatia is not at the top places in charge. For example, the United States has a debt of 3 times the total revenues of the state budget, while in Croatia this is at the level of the revenues of the state budget. The truth is that in Croatia the debt has increased. But if banks had restrictions on borrowing abroad, the question arises who was in charge. The company was in debt to the largest and there are 20,000 that are insolvent, have no employee and have no activity, and do not repay loans to their funds, foreign sources of financing for purchased land across the Republic of Croatia, and no interest is paid, but only interest is attributed to the principal. Only if such matters were resolved, if they went into bankruptcy of the company, and there is no reason not to go into bankruptcy would the real sector feel no consequences because none of the employees will lose their jobs or any activity will be abolished. Approximately 10 billion euros would be reduced in the debt of the Republic of Croatia. And there's a record of it in everything and in the Central Bank, and there's something to be done about it. But economic problems cannot be solved by reducing wages, cannot be resolved by social contributions and cannot be resolved by reducing pensions. An effective government if it wants to get the economy out of the crisis it does not stimulate consumption but stimulates production and only by stimulating production, and what is on the trail and these, the interest of this Government Croatia can come out of the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61328	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61329	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So that you, colleague Maric, have completed what I have already said in my presentation. Namely, those data I have provided are not data that are only available to me. They are, if anyone wants to take a look at the data outside Croatia and compare it with the data on Croatia, it will be very easy to make sure that everything I said was true. And I agree with you that Croatia, when it comes to the debt of the general state, is not an overindebted state. I said that only six European Union states are talking about the debt of the general state... from the Republic of Croatia, and for example, the neighbouring country of Italy, which is a member of the European Union, is the debt of the general state as a percentage of GDP, is 120% compared to 37% of the debt of the public general state in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the information that I have cited is primarily for reasons to show that the state of public finances for which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is largely responsible is not as shown in this passage that we have received as a proposal to launch the responsibility of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61330	Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61331	Thank you very much. You mentioned what's going on with your fellow Bačić. I'd say there's a disappointment going on for the citizens. I'm replicating you because we're from the same county. They're disappointed with infrastructure games. A month ago there was optimism when we saw from the catalog investments that Dubrovnik was doing well, that is, our county. But of all this, the question will be what. Namely, we should get 3 energy facilities, a continuation of a bridge worth 2 to 4 billion kuna. We know that. As it is said, this is a prerequisite for the European Union's entry, or priority, because it is a prerequisite for Croatia to enter the Schengen area. However, the disappointment follows because Croatian roads as investors tell the government that there is no money for serious works on the bridge. The four-year budget is 433 million. So 100 million kunas can't be, can't run any serious work, and know that we're isolated by traffic you know very well and because of such isolation we still had an increase of 13% of the nights this year. Imagine how serious it would be if the government had thought about it this year when there was more money. I understand now that he's in crisis, but we should have thought about our region before that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61332	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61333	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, we come exactly from the same county, and then we know almost identical problems that affect us in the far south of Croatia. I am proud that in the catalogue of Croatian Government projects 20% of all projects are directed right at the county from which we come. But I'm surprised now that your concern for the construction of the Peljega Bridge when your party and your party partners were against that bridge in the campaign that we had at the end of 2007. So I'm surprised now that you care about building that bridge if his, uh, giving up his construction is on the trail of what you've been looking for and what you've been campaigning for. But I won't have to tell you and tell you and all the citizens of our county that the Croatian government, and the Croatian roads didn't say they were giving up building a bridge, but it was said that until the budget was adopted, they were looking for new possibilities to finance the construction of the bridge, and that is to allow a big difference from what you said, which is that the Croatian government is giving up on the construction of the Peljega Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61334	Thank you. Replica's distinguished representative, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61335	Thank you. You tell your colleague Bačić that budget rebalances have secured the level of salary and pension and that this went to the heart of the deficit increase. It should be said that this year's wages are also reduced. So reduced base by 6%. But if pensions don't line up this year, then pensions are less than they would have been. What's the problem with the increased deficit? Because it has to be financed from the loan, and every new loan actually covers the expenditure side and not in the part that relates to, say, the aid to the economy or to some infrastructure investment, but exactly what you said, to maintaining the level of wages and pensions. This is a long-term unsustainable situation and if it is not going to go to take concrete measures that will increase economic activity, which will increase GDP growth, then this is a very bad move. You say we're getting out of the crisis slowly. Well, Croatia is among the rare countries that are still recording the economic downturn. Southeast Europe at this time records 3.9% of economic growth, and we will be happy if we end up according to the budget rebalancing of 1.6%. And you're saying we're gonna stop the crisis. However, when we have at this point on 100 employees 102 unemployed and retired, and with such a proposal that was in July, we only increased the number of people who will retire this year. If you don't have economic activity, if you don't have employment growth, you can't even have higher budget revenues.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61336	Time. Thank you very much. Replica response, distinguished representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61337	Thank you very much, Vice President. My dear colleague, I did not say that the total deficit of 14.2 billion and not more than 15 billion as stated in your proposal went to finance pension and salary expenditures. I didn't say that, and it doesn't even say that in the government's statement, it says that part of the government's budget deficit goes to salaries and pensions, and part of the other expenditures of the state budget. But as long as you mention the deficit, then I'll tell you one piece of information about the work of this government and the work of a coalition government chaired by the late Prime Minister Racan. So today, in times of crisis both in the world and in Croatia, when gross domestic product decline is recorded in Croatia, the deficit of the state budget will be 3.2% and at the time of the World Market conjuncture as it was in 2003 and 2004, so in the time of the conjuncture of the world economic market and the world economy, the government had a deficit in the state budget in 2002. 4.2 and 2003. Five, three. Thus, at times when the economy is growing, when in any case the state budget's revenues from the SDP government and the former coalition government record a high percentage of the government budget deficit compared to the gross domestic product.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61338	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61339	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I can't agree with two of your interpretations, so I'll show you what. So the first is your interpretation of how to rebalance this last one's budget, so in 2010, when you said that you actually found a solution that of course disappointed us, because there were no riots and by what you said. So the terms that were mentioned during the summer, when it came to the budget, there were savings, painful cuts, until the last breath we would defend something and therefore a lot of big cuts were expected in the budget. One time, a colleague Markovanovic said it was test balloons. Okay. In the end, however, the government itself admitted that it had no power to do what had been announced, and it decided to settle it in a less-resistance line. That is, this proves the quote of the Prime Minister who said everyone is for reforms and cuts, but when it comes to them, they're not, like, right now. So it was classic buying time for something to happen, so it would be done next time, not to cause major riots and to maintain such support for the government and the ruling policy among citizens, which is politically legitimate, but it's not what you said. And secondly, I disagree with your interpretation of the motive why we're now looking for mistrust, a vote of mistrust. We deeply believe that you can't deny us, and you don't have to agree, that this government is leading a bad country, and that in a year or more, it's going to be a worse situation, and that the government that comes will be even harder to get the country back on track, and that's why we think this is a good time to do it, that it's going to be a lot harder in a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61340	Thank you very much. Replica response, distinguished representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61341	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bauk, I do not expect you to agree with my findings, because if you would agree with me, you would not sign this motion to raise the question of responsibility for the Prime Minister. But what is true is that the government did the right thing when it proposed such a budget rebalancing in early August, not even reducing salaries, so as not to reduce pensions, because even in the context of the state budget rebalancing, it was said that by reducing wages, the reduction of pensions would further reduce spending in Croatia, and this would indirectly result in lower revenues. The government therefore did the right thing. And what you were expecting, I said that the government would be forced to cut wages, cut pensions, so that it could close the state budget, or that it could finance all those expenditures to the state budget, that's another question. That's what you expected, but it didn't happen, and that's why your anxiety is partly yours, and it came to the question, with this procedure being launched on the matter of responsibility of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61342	Thank you. And we have another replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61343	You have now surpassed even Minister Milinovic, who said in Gospić the other day, I quote HDZ, HSP, HSS, independent councilmen, England and America support the president of HDZ, so you have also dragged into this debate the European People's Party. I don't know if you're responsible for your work in the Croatian Parliament, I don't, but if I'm not mistaken, that's the same European folk party and that same leader who until a year ago claimed that Croatia can only introduce Ivo Sanader and no one else. That's the same one. I heard today and Obama witnessed the good work of the government, Barroso and everyone else, but they don't respond to the citizens of this country. It's just a little difference. And you've repeated something that HDZ agents have been repeating all day. This is, this question of mistrust is an attempt to stop the fight against corruption because it only left when Mrs. Kosor came to the head of the government. So you're saying Sanader was holding back investigations in corrupt stores, because when he went, the fight was on. Your former president has been holding up the investigation. The EU will stop negotiations. What does that mean? That Sanader was right when he said he left because he didn't want to trade territory, so they came after that and traded? A programme of economic recovery will be ruined if this government falls. It means Sanader ruined the Croatian economy and now this government needs to save it. In fact, you claim that the HDZ headed with Sanader was the one who protected corruption, tried to trade with Croatia's territory and destroyed the Croatian economy. That's what you've been saying all along.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61344	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Replica response, distinguished representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61345	I told my colleague Lesar in my opening part, which is that material assumptions and the legal framework for the fight against corruption can be attributed to one, the second or third government, but that the creation of a real atmosphere in Croatia for the fight against corruption can be attributed and attributed exclusively to a government headed by the Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. That's what I said. And the second thing I said was that such a policy was given to the Prime Minister and the Government as a whole in the part relating to the implementation of the economic recovery programme and to the conclusion of negotiations for Croatia's accession to full membership and to the fight against corruption by all the members of the European People's Party and the European People's Party, who said that with its statement, it was also evident that the debate that was in the Parliament today was both of the allegations and of the lunches that the Croatian government was blaspheming Croatia and that it shamed Croatia on the way to the EU. So all of this together isn't true. It is true what I said and it is true that I have read a statement from the European People's Party which clearly speaks about the trust that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has headed with President Jadranka Kosor on the way out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61346	Thank you. I'd like to inform all the MPs here that we, now I'm going to read the seventh in a row that will discuss in an individual debate. We started at 4:00 a.m. with an individual discussion, so in five hours we've had, we've got six individual discussions. I'd like to ask you to be patient, bute get word. Booth get, when it comes to that time like everybody else, listen up. By the way, listen up. At that rate, we'll be done tomorrow night. There's still 66 people reported for questioning. We're not gonna hang up, I'm calling the clubs to think about it. There. If there is a distinguished representative Zoran Milanovic, you have raised your hand to something. ... On behalf of the Proposer? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Here's your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61347	He who bows his sword to the sword and cuts himself. So, I'm looking at this pathetic statement, and I'm going to use this word because it's not about anyone in this House, but it's about a loser from the European People's Party called Antonio Lopez-Isturis who was here a year and a half ago, while your mentor and chief of staff was the same Lopez-Izturis here taught lessons in Croatia in one scandalous way that could best disgust the EU, talked about the results of the election, about which Croatians should vote. I thought that mouse went into the hole he crawled out of because it's a technical person, so I have to call him that because what we have here is scandalous. But when someone complexes their own, so this doesn't apply to any of you guys, you're my colleagues, this one here I don't know who he is, but I know who the people of this rank are in the hierarchy of European parties, and I know something about these parties. So what it says here is scandalous, I'm not personally experiencing it at all, this is basically scandalous and it's the best way for Croats to be disgusted by the EU. Now, what does it say here? So how to lobby in Brussels and how to send communications. So don't treat the complexes like this. I know very well who the party's secretaries are, I know very well who is who in Brussels and I know very well that as Zoran Milanovic, as SDP president, opposition politician and parliamentary representative, and before that, the international secretary of the party can reach someone, and I can't reach someone. In this there are numerous factors limiting both the size of our country and my personal abilities and relationships. But I also know that I have a number of high-ranking European politicians and statesmen and prime ministers of good colleagues, friends. It's a little pretentious to talk about friendship, but good colleagues and people with whom they can make contact at any moment. You remember on the day of the adoption of the amendments to the Croatian Constitution that I had to travel to Brussels for a meeting on which I did not see Mrs Kosor on the other hand. It was July, because she wasn't invited. She's the prime minister. I'm not the prime minister, but I've been invited to a low level and not for the first time to dinner of the prime minister and party president. Not as Zoran Milanovic, but as president of a party that has good connections there. Look, if now, of course, through connection and lobbying for Croatia, there are, of course, limitations and achievements of such lobbying and it must be used politely, affirmatively for its country, for its party, for its group, absolutely. If I were to ask for this to be written by the President of the European Socialist Group either in Parliament... then at the moment I would get an affirmative letter in which neither Sanader nor Mrs Kosor nor anyone else would be mentioned. So, first of all, here, it gets roughly into the Croatian internal stuff by a dumbass, I would never say that if a man hadn't allowed himself this kind of freedom. It's just an irresponsible jerk. And that's what my colleagues in Brussels are going to do because I'm not going to have to say it to his face with a job like that. This is an irresponsible person, and those who beg for Brussels and a sleeve wolf like this to write such statements do to you Mrs. Kosor what the lipservice says in English. You know what that is. Don't do that, for God's sake. So, I was at a high meeting in Brussels at the time, and I saw you not in July at the EPP meeting. You probably forgot to come or there weren't any translators. I was there... Look, you're making us be, you're making us do this, so sabotaging what I'm saying here, I'm declaring under full moral, not criminal responsibility because there's nothing criminal here, this is just a matter of immorality. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, no, this isn't Martinez this is the secretary of the party. The public must know who the secretaries of the parties are in Brussels. It's not the secretary of the caliber, say, the Jarnak or Bačić. These are persons who are technically extremely European parliamentarians who are generally accepted in competition. So, such a person is neither statesman nor Martinez nor President of the European Parliament nor Buzek is a letter of support to Mrs Kosor, waving. Well done. There was someone saying that I'm burning and burning in Bosnia and Herzegovina and I'm practically affecting the results of the election there. No way. I don't have that kind of influence, but I'm in Buxelles, which is irrelevant and is often at low-level meetings. It's in the letter of this model gentleman. So, I am not often in Brussels I am when important meetings are and I am not involved in making important decisions like you, because I am not from a Member State. So I'm not involved in bringing anything, but I'm talking there with people who are top executives in their countries. I've known some of them before, and I've met some lately because it allows me my duty, not some genius or my ability. And you have to be aware of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61348	Your Honor, I'd like you to excuse me for a moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61349	That tomorrow when you stop being Prime Minister in Brussels, you'll talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61350	Your Honor, I must warn you, however, as chairman, that you cannot speak any further. It's not the subject of today's session.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61351	It's quite a subject because we determine what the subject is, and the theme is what we wrote in our request.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61352	You haven't determined what the subject is and please move on to the topic so we don't have to discuss it any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61353	So look at the former police ministers, so some manners need to be modified a little bit, you understand. This is the second time you've yelled at me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61354	Your Honor, I was Minister of the Interior in the glorious wartime. I am now the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament and I ask you to address me this way or I will have to apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. It's not my intention, and I don't want to, but you have no right to call me as former Minister of the Interior that way here. I'm here now as Vice President of the Parliament. If you didn't know that, then I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61355	I apologize to the Vice-President of the Council of Chief Ministers of the Interior. And I ask you that the methods you've been practicing back then and that you haven't practiced in some situations like 101 of all honours, so you've shown that you can also be a Democrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61356	Your Honor, I still have to give you a warning because of the way you treat me. I don't do it often, and I don't do it willingly, but please accept the subject and discuss the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61357	So I'm telling you that you were a Democrats in case 101 and you're angry. Well, you did a good thing for Croatian democracy. Make it now and let me talk. Well, that's what I'm saying. What is it that offends you? Well, that shouldn't offend you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61358	Mr. Representative, speak, move on to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61359	But you are not offended when Croatia is offended in this way. Fuchkash SDP, you fuck Milanovic. This is the way Europe does not communicate. And you want us to work together on Europe. So how? So one of the officials of the political group left by British conservatives escaped from it, from which Democrats and degolists from the Sarkozy party argue, the secretariat and the organisation write a statement to the Croatian public. So why isn't that a shame, Mrs. Kosor? So please don't tell me that your advisor who's listed in the HDZ presidency and who's receiving a foreign exchange salary, and he's showing up here in the House hasn't lobbyed for this disgrace. Well, it's not about me. It's about Croatia. Don't do that. This is too bad. So now I'm gonna end up really. I rarely go to Brussels a few times a year, I meet with the highest ranking of officials from the state and government, of course not with the British prime ministers, it's not a Croatian level to not be too familiar with myself, but I have access to many important and powerful people, and I don't speak to Mrs. Kosor any earlier than I am fighting for the interests of Croatia and the SDP and the position of SDP in those groups. Tomorrow there will be elections for those 12 seats in the European Parliament that you have now presented to us and for that we will fight politically. Don't contaminate that space like this. We can't be partners. Warn these people. That man made it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61360	Bring the hearing to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61361	The Croatian public must know, as well as those in HDZ who care about it. Cheers and welcome Mr. Whitever.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61362	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. The first is the honourable representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61363	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Milanovic, allow me to correct you when you say that someone out there sucks. No one's a jerk, they can have good or bad character traits, but we can't call people stupid. However, since you mentioned going to Bosnia and Herzegovina, then I must say that the defence of Croatia includes the defence of Croatian interests at all levels and defences and support for all Croatians in the world. This is what you did in Sarajevo in Bosnia and Herzegovina directly against Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I dare say directly against the interest of the Republic of Croatia. What you don't know what you're doing, I'm sure you don't know, because you don't know relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, you don't know what SDP is and what it represents. And in what way it desubits HRvate there is no excuse at all. I'm really sorry, too. I don't think the SDP has that intention but it has to have that knowledge and it has to have that conscience and it has to have that responsibility and let's get it all together once.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61364	Thank you very much. A second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61365	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, it is an incorrect assumption that a small mouse and a non-sniffer from the EU from a party there wrote something against the SDP or something that is not in his favor. Namely, they write others. Europe versus the SDP. Did some little mouse write this, too? They write Europeans and other things. So they say "the opposition is right to be angry" when foreign diplomats publicly comment on the events here but some of their actions by the SDP gentlemen cause serious concerns. Is that what some little mouse wrote?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61366	Please don't throw it out of the bench. Dear MPs, don't act like this, please. Let's move on with the discussion of the individual, and everything will calm down. Krunoslav Markovović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61367	We just heard a lot of things, and not just before, but during today, and we heard a word that sucks, and so did many of them, why exactly SDP is going to do this today, because he knows he's going to lose, but here's doing something because someone's expecting something from him. And then clearly, the answer is very simple. They're going on purpose, they're not going to be able to do it again for another six months because they're not ready for power or want power, but they have to tell their members something if we're doing something for you. But not all of the members of the SDP took it very seriously, as if their president had told them another Latin proverb about the hysteria es master's vita and they were acting like one, so hysterically, and not the way we should be talking here in this House. ... That's right, just a little bit here and there. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So we're going a little further away from them now, and a little bit from what we're actually talking about today. So today we've talked about the past, not the future, looks like the future of SDP doesn't really care much, but they're interested in what they're imagining, what they're offering. I'm not saying everyone doesn't have any ambitions to come to power. Here is the future Minister Nenad Stazic, who will attract billions of tourists when they hear that for 7 kuna they can spend their holidays on Brijuni. So I can still watch for free some kind of play where he's probably a statistic. So there's this, there's a predisposition to some kind of development of tourism, and I think my colleague Bice can be scared because he can't do it under any circumstances, that's definitely. So there's that, there's threats, there's everything, we've got a lot of bad ones, I'm not gonna tell bad, bad stories. Here's a distinguished colleague, Pusic, said besides that only 1% of European environmental funds were spent. The truth is I think it's a little different, though, that from the PHARE and CARDS, we took everything from ISPA 85%, for the IPA that lasts until 2014 but 29%, which is significantly more than 1%, I have to admit. But in that party, it's always counted with money, not with percentages, so it doesn't really surprise me too much. We have a debate here that still isn't for this level that's here, for example, how that 65% of the salary is below average. Well, let's count on 65% of the salary above the average would be this average, so no one's watching. So these are stories that are for the public, that won't check what someone says, but the fact that they're not really God knows what. I know the Kukuriku coalition appears there, probably the menu there is pretty good, that the composition I think is incredibly good, let's see who makes it all because other than the parties, except for the SDP, the HNS, the IDS, which I must say is the fact that they are always present in the Parliament, or they have delegated one representative, they get three salaries, and they take one place. So they're really savings for this country. If we had a quick retirement defector who's extremely fast for his age, who left the pensioners to run into a common list and sit in the Parliament again, but God dear, and we have someone else, we have a new party president who has rejected all of his members, but he will also enter the list, a common list in order to finally achieve some kind of triumphant return to politics. So, there's a lot going on. It happens here in the State's Attorney's Office, it's nice, it's nice, when they defend one of the worthy members there, but, God, I don't think criminal persecutions get old, so sooner or later we'll come to it, and so far, so comfort should be what it is. We have a whole series of problems certainly today social. I think people are very unhappy when they look at this, that they hate both of us, and it's justifiable because we're actually dealing with something that we shouldn't at this point, which we should still do, if anything else goes decent on this meeting tomorrow, and even if I say I am for this, I'm not for this, but it's more convenient to be offended because an offended man doesn't have to promise anything or say anything, and that's that style, the gentlemanish style we're going to humiliate them even a little bit, because God is a female after all. Well, well done, gentlemen. We have a series of things we can talk about and it seems like we can't talk about because when the SDP goes back into the past, then it's okay, it's a fantasy. Yesterday, the day before yesterday, I don't know how many years ago there, as soon as we get back, it's no good anymore. If it's the INA, I think it was the great master Linic who did the miracles. In the Croatian Railways, someone mentioned today Croatian Railways here, let's say a little bit of lean trains, let's mention what happened to those beautiful sweet appliances 4 million euros cost to collect tickets, was bought when the chairman of the Supervisory Board was Slavko Linic, what about it? 4m euros thrown, who will answer for it, what about the tilt trains of which three vehicles of 8 compositions are. Believe me, I have no doubt for a moment that no such bribe has been obtained much greater than for Daimler because such trains bought for the railroad we had could only have been bought by someone who was largely bribed. It'll come out. We talked about Daimler, so they laughed at us. Now it's a confession, someone will admit it, maybe they'll... Admit what was going on and why we actually ran into this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here, it's not my colleague Linic's fault, it wasn't him who paid for it, it was later. Everything was ordered in the SDP in 2003, and paid later because it was convenient to order as much as possible, probably for commissions, bribes and similar things, and the one who will come will pay. And they knew they wouldn't last long because they didn't even hold a full mandate, the coalition that they're reuniting today fell apart in no time. And if there wasn't one, let's call the politician people trusted because here in the '70s something meant something, they'd be flying a lot faster. And now what would happen if we weren't going to talk about it. But the fact is, we didn't need this today. Justification that you're doing something of every honor, proof that you don't want to see it in power a long time ago, and you're actually not going to encourage this for six months, so you're at least six months calm and then you're going to do something else to write this guy down so that someone can trust you that you're incredibly capable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61368	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61369	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, don't talk about things you don't know about because your report is yours. I'll say it now. [[Employing Capricorn: Please tell us what you are correcting in the first...]] Because your government's report and your administration of the EU Fund Committee should be informed of. So it's a verifiable fact where by September 30th this year I have data. I'll bring them here. I've got them down in my room by September 30th this year, 50% of the pre-accession funds should be used. So these are the small funds not these 3 and a half billion pre-accession funds for the environment, and they were used, 1% were agreed and 50% were to be agreed or paid and 50% of the traffic funds were to be contracted or paid to end-users by 30 September and 1% paid. That's not true, fellow Shuker. It's written in a report that came from among other things and from your ministry and yelling from the bench won't save you from your incompetence and incompetence.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61370	Thank you very much. You're out of time. We have one replica, Honorable representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61371	Thank you very much. Mr. Markovanovic, I don't know if you are aware that you have accused the HDZ government of crime in your exposure. However, it was very difficult to catch everything you brought out, but you said that after 2003 you knew that certain appliances were purchased in HZ in a criminal way, and that HDZ later paid for it. So if you knew why you were paying? So you accused the HDZ government of paying something based on crime later. Please don't accuse your government like that anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61372	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Krunoslav Markovinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61373	Well, in 2004, when I guess these machines were paid, we all expected on the trains of SDP conductors with two machines or twice as many purchases as the conductors. The commissioners have settled in ahead. Well, we were expecting it, but we weren't expecting it. The machines are still standing somewhere in a warehouse today waiting for better days, and it seems to me they've long gone because you simply haven't been able to buy any software along with the machines.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61374	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the individual debate. It is next to representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61375	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia with ministers, with members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. And I will join the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which in its obvious refuses all the allegations, the proposals to launch the issue of trust from the Presidents of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, to present them in a clock signed by the Social Democrats leader, Mr. Zoran Milanovic, on behalf of 58 MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I say in the spell because it is made in a well-known style of our opposition with many false and selectively selected data that corresponds to them today, so in his speech he says he will not compare Croatia with Kyrgyzstan, he will not call on polls even though all this is in the clock. All of this and a lot of others tendingly addressed at a level no higher than the one that the promoters present today in this debate. And none of the parliamentary majority disputed and doubted the democratic and legitimate demands of opposition filed not on the street as one fellow said, but in the parliament. But then I ask why it's written in a special style and a language spoken on the street, and that's the worst election campaign ever. And as far as I know, colleagues and colleagues are scheduled for the end of 2011 and the deadline is also possible on 11 March 2012. That language is very specific and style I will say and I will give examples to those who know, responsible and brave are asking questions and talking about the government's ability, knowledge, responsibility and courage. Clearly, none of the above is true. I will agree later on in the debate, but the war also mentions pests, and outside the war, the opposition's prominent representative is talking about the need for deratization. And as if that is not enough and I hope that you will agree and too much Mr. Milanovic declares that the Government shames Croatia, that it violates the international reputation of the Republic of Croatia, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is deformed, sharply criticises foreign diplomats in Croatia, announces the shift of the main state attorney dissatisfied with its work, all under cover that it is so I will quote what it says in the book always and always in the first place must be the interest of the Republic of Croatia and its citizens, not the interests of my own political party or group finished quote. So, under that cover, it requires extraordinary elections. And they argue that the elections would not slow down the conclusion of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, so as to speed up the fight against corruption and organised crime with Bajic. And the truth is that we have already heard that early elections for the result would have been delayed for at least half a year and the delay would cause Croatia to run out of money from European funds, which would be a loss of at least a billion euros. I join those who call the early elections the wrong step of the Croatian opposition as well as the error of the head of the Social Democratic Party and its announcements to replace the main state lawyer, which is contrary to the policy of the European Union and the United States which Mr Bajic and the Croatian government support. So many colleagues and colleagues about the disgrace of the Croatian state and the violation of the international reputation of the Republic of Croatia. Smart enough. And one more thing. This request by the Social Democratic Party, its strength of the attack on the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia personally, on the government as a whole and on the Croatian Democratic Community, shows your anxiety after the failure of all the actions you have called for the Greek script in Croatia, and the Croatian Government, headed by President Jadranka Kosor, consistently works to implement the programme of economic recovery, the one you said in April first that we have copied it from you and that it is not good. The measures of this programme are long-term, and they show and will bring results that the Government is fine at each session, so at the beginning of each session, the Croatian public also reports, and you have in the material that was given a report on the implementation of the implementation plan for September 2010, meaning from April to September 2010, and they are also felt by citizens, Croatian citizens who will be here in a few days, just to mention the 1st of November will be abolished a special 4% tax that went to salaries and receiving more than 6 thousand kuna. It shows that all the unpopular measures that the government had taken were necessary and it is not true what you stated, as you stated in your report that the government had lifted this imposition under public pressure. This is simply not true, because it was one of the economic recovery measures of the Republic of Croatia, contained in the measures the government adopted in May. As it is not true that citizens do not believe the institutions of the state, and those who do not believe or whose trust has been lifted, it is with great support of the Croatian opposition to what you are constantly calling them on in all your actions. I would otherwise object to you in a certain way that we are today, both this House and the Croatian Government and all its ministers have spent on this debate, because you have also proven that you are holding back the Croatian Government from achieving the strategic goals that this Croatian government is headed by the President, Mrs Kosor, which is the implementation of the programme of economic recovery and development of the Republic of Croatia, it is a decisive fight against corruption and organised crime, as well as the conclusion of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. You have shown these colleagues and colleagues from the Social Democratic Party that you are not a serious and responsible opposition at this crucial moment, but I am not surprised, because it is shown that you have learned nothing and that you have not changed your relationship with the Croatian state and Croatian citizens since 25 June 1991, and today you have shown the Croatian public again what would happen if it were up to you. Otherwise, I would like to talk about the Croatian government, about the measures the Government is taking and the activities being discussed in this debate, about the positive sides, and I will take this opportunity, because you gave us this opportunity today, and that is what we in the parliamentary majority should be grateful for, and I will take advantage of that. The other day, he writes in the European Parliament about the trend, so they improve the social rights of mothers, and it is about protecting births. And the EU's big title changes laws because there are fewer registered maternity leaves and more in Croatia. Should we remind you colleagues and colleagues that last year we passed the Law on maternity and parental fees and that the measures that the former government had implemented, or proposed, for them were fought and led by the then Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, present-day Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Kosor, that they had brought results, showed the correctness of such orientation, and I will also say that the data from the Croatian Health Insurance Institute indicate that, in the first 9 months of 2010, mandatory maternity leave for up to 6 months, the child's lives were used by 21 thousand 641 persons employed, and in the first 9 months of 2009, there were 19 thousand 086. Parent leave, which followed 6 months after the first 9 months of 2010, was used by 23 thousand 440 people and last year 21,000 524. And that there is no confusion, that is, once again, I will support the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You cannot win me and most of this House, and I hope you cannot win Croatian citizens and citizens for your unwarranted request and a proposal to vote for mistrust to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Full support and a lot of success I want... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61376	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61377	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you've determined your colleagues in your debate that this process today shows that the SDP has shown that we are not a serious and responsible opposition. So I will remind you, however, that in the last two years, in front of this Croatian Parliament, we have come out with a series of laws that you have refused, and they have applied to the economic recovery and to the protection of those who are most needed in this crisis, and you have been pushing your head into the sand for a year and a half of the day you didn't want to admit that there is a crisis in Croatia at all, because, in that time, Croatia was a wizard in heaven or on earth, and you blindly followed your then Prime Minister Sanader, and then last year you suddenly saw and you were responsible because you were fat late with economic measures, with legal proposals that have no effect at all today. That's what this is about, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61378	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61379	My colleague Bilić Vardić, you're talking about some kind of economic recovery that this government is producing. Where'd you get that? Well, nobody sees that alive but you. So I don't know if you're taking care of the fact that citizens might even be watching this transfer and listening to you interpret the country as being in some phase of economic recovery. So you inherited, so you left the country in '99. years with a negative growth rate. In 2003, you inherited 5 and a half percent of GDP growth. You've ruined everything again, and you'll leave everything with a negative growth rate again. And the other thing is, you don't understand that the citizens don't want you anymore. That's enough for the citizens. 50% of them want early elections, to choose another power, because you've got their brothers on edge, because you took everything they had, because you've cut their wages, you've cut their pensions, you've destroyed everything. You've destroyed the economy. And now you're talking about some kind of economic growth, the development of the economy. Like, you underestimate the citizens of this country. It's like they're fools, like they don't know how they live under your authority. And as if these arguments of yours were yours, statistics can help these people to buy bread tomorrow, to pay for the loan. So do you even know how many people are out of homes, no apartments, no houses because I can't pay off credit wars? And you know why they took that loan? Because you promised them they'd live better, that the standard would rise and they believed you. So you cheated on them, and that's why they want you out of the way. You say you have support, so who supports you except yourself here? Is it unions? Well, the unions are looking for a referendum on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61380	Thank you very much. Your time is up. The reply to the replica is esteemed Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61381	Thank you very much. As far as I can remember and how familiar I am, but not only me but also the entire Croatian public you spent all summer in Brijuni for 7 kuna a day and I don't know what citizens you care about and care about so much, you hung out with first, because I don't think they have the opportunity to access Brijuni and those places where you were and that team you took summers with so that you could know the opinion of Croatian citizens. You're telling me what economic recovery measures I'm talking about, and I'm asking you how you can write in a spell that the government has not implemented a single reform that is very well seen in the answer. Both my colleague Stazic and I ask you and everyone in the opposition how would you defend the President of the Croatian Government if it were attacked outside when you could not accept the terms of support and support that Mrs Kosor, who is introducing Croatia to the EU, came from the international community.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61382	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61383	Article 209(2), who was I hanging out with on Brijuni? With cultural people.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61384	Please, which is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor. Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. Please, it's good to have a good mood. It is up to the honourable representative Krešimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61385	What should a modern Croatian economy look like? That's a very interesting question. What's that? How do you get to that? It was an opportunity for us to hear something about it in the Croatian Parliament today. It was the interest of the Croatian public to know something more specific, more clearly. However, since the SDP in the Croatian Parliament today we have heard nothing about it. It's not weird. After 12 hours of debate, after 12 hours of debate, we heard wishes, we heard frustrations, and what we should have heard was not heard. Getting out of the crisis by election. The SDP is a guarantee that the problem will be resolved. A naive and unrealistic and unfounded expectation. Croatia has been imposed on the public a false thesis of the SDP is the solution of the end, gentlemen you had 12 hours of opportunities in the Croatian Parliament today to say more about it when it comes to innovation, technological growth, technological development, economic growth, development, etc., you should have shown what you know. It could be a guarantee that Croatian people believe you, but we didn't hear anything from it and it's no surprise. The OECD Organisation for Economic Development and Cooperation clearly highlights the way towards economic growth, the potential of economic growth and development depends on innovation, industrial innovation, research-based innovation, etc. We should have talked about this in the Croatian Parliament because without it, dear gentlemen, there is no more competitive, no more competent and no more successful Croatian economy. We haven't heard anything, unfortunately, and this shows how you plan to run the Croatian economy. It is well known that almost every country's economic power is the most dependent on its technological innovation and vitality as a basis for its economic competitiveness. Not a word about it today in the European Parliament, but there is something to know about it. The fact is undeniable that Croatia is seriously lagging behind in its technological development, but not because it has been happening for the last year or the last 2 years or the last 3 years. It's a structural problem that's unfortunately been going on for decades. I'd say almost the last 30 years. Technological development is the cornerstone of a competitive economy and long-term economic growth. However, there are no serious public debates in Croatia today on innovation, knowledge, technological development and progress, and almost all attention is unfortunately focused on some of the less important, I would say, almost irrelevant things. Who's to blame? That's another question. On this occasion, I would like to quote a wise man who spoke several years ago at the Croatian University. It's a slow one. University of Zagreb, Dr. William Perry said, quote: "You need an entrepreneurial spirit, you need capital to finance technologically founded entrepreneurship and excellent technical universities." Unfortunately, there is nothing we could hear about today in the Croatian Parliament from those who hold that they are a guarantee for successful Croatia, for economic growth and development. Climate innovation is the climate and state of the spirit that stems from all people of one society, especially those who shape state policy in that area. The future belongs to those who are innovative. Dear gentlemen, you could read about this in the Programme for Economic Growth of the Republic of Croatia, but there was nothing we could hear in your proposal to ensure economic growth and prosperity in the Republic of Croatia. The Programme for Economic Recovery of the Republic of Croatia has clearly highlighted the integration of education systems with the needs of the economy, strengthening research and development, strengthening technological competitiveness. These are all the things that should have been said here today. Croatian public, Croatian people deserve such discussions. But what happened? Something else happened. A story that causes among Croatian people depression, frustration, disappointment, hatred, I would say even hysteria. It is not a climate, it is not a state of spirit in which economic growth and development can be ensured. We need more optimism, we need more confidence. Of course, we also need criticism, but criticism based on knowledge and arguments. What we heard here today is not that. We have heard something we can call a psychological war, a psychological war of SDP which unfortunately among Croatian citizens because of objective, economic, social and other difficulties causes frustration, disappointment perhaps even depression. Some consciously or unconsciously spread these negative emotions in the Croatian public that prevent us from discussing more responsibly, more constructively and that we can solve problems that are objective and that stand before all of us. I would like to say this, the situation in Croatia was far more difficult in 1991, but the climate, the emotional climate that existed at the time, was the basis for self-esteem, the belief that we could solve those problems that seemed perhaps impossible at the time. Therefore, creating such a climate of dissatisfaction, hysteria I would say depression is a threat to economic growth and development in the Republic of Croatia. Some create a false feeling that they know that they can provide Croatian with economic growth and development. It's an illusion. These illusions must be freed from a competitive economy that is something that deserves me to say far more attention, arguments and competences so that together with the Croatian public, Croatian people can better address all the problems we face. The emotional climate and the emotional atmosphere you create, unfortunately, is not the prerequisite for economic growth and development in Croatia. and everything you said about the modern Croatian economy shows that we do have a serious deficit of everything we need in order to make the Republic of Croatia food better and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61386	Thank you very much. We have one correction and then one replica. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61387	You say a colleague could have said anything in individual debates by now, but you didn't say anything. So what kind of people are you, please? You stole our places. You weren't even weeds when 30 SDPs checked in. And you've all been involved in it. So, people, when you no longer have what to steal and order for applications, you steal. So what kind of people are you? So how are you not ashamed? ... you're saying that the opposition is also to blame for our proposal to spread the negative climate. That in the '90s, the mood was different. And that's true. People are disappointed. They believed both then and in 2000 and 2003, they believed the fourth, but what happened now. What are the measures you are implementing and which give economic activity and economic recovery. You've replaced the thesis here. People went into apathy just because they don't have a way out. But Croatia wakes up from its silence. You're afraid of the referendum. .../Conversation disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61388	Thank you. You've been expecting wake-up all night.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61389	You did not correct Article 209, ma'am, any incorrect allegations. You interpreted what I was saying and you showed that you do not understand your responsibilities and that you do not understand where you are and what we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61390	We have one replica, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61391	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. You spoke to your colleague, Cosic. Mr. President, I'm asking for extensions since they took my time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61392	He'll consider it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61393	Twice in 15 minutes. So you were talking about '91, Mr. Cosic. The year when there was a national enthusiasm, when we ended the war and came out of war and peaceful reintegration in '98. the years went out with an external debt of 10 billion euros. Today, the debt is close to 50 billion euros from 2000 to 2010 alone in 10 years. So, about some national enthusiasm while we have starting from the Gods Association to those who aren't in the association digging containers, looking for not only plastic bottles but now for the rest of the food, it's hard to talk about. And national enthusiasm and national pride were also killed, we know in what way. Our generals are in The Hague, our generals are in prisons, the suicide is a thousand 600 by the year 2010. So, we can talk about technology today, too, but I don't see that since 2003 any of this executive government has been admitted, so in the government, something that in this sense you've been discussing has been done. So innovation, technology, Croatian progress. So it's standing, it's stagnating. Therefore, for seven years it was an opportunity to do something about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61394	Thank you. Answer Mr. Kresimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61395	Thank you very much for the replica. What I emphasized is what needs to be taken care of. Entrepreneurship is a state of mind, without this confidence I will tell you, the latest issue of the OECD Secretary-General speaks of economic growth and development and it is very important to trust those who invest their money today unfortunately in conditions. Quite high risks and uncertainty. However, in order for entrepreneurship to work is not enough to function at the level of the individual entrepreneurs but must be a wider social climate, people must have a sense of confidence that they can and must do something to make it better. It is not a state that can solve far more problems than is realistically possible. The problems certainly belong to all of us and to the government, but also to the private sector, individuals, entrepreneurship, medium and small entrepreneurship, but all of this requires another social climate, another social atmosphere in which what is very important to all of us can happen. Unfortunately, in the spread of depression, hysteria, frustration cannot happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61396	Thank you. Now it's Madam Representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61397	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I am quite confident that we are faced with a very harmful attempt to move the discussion of the Presidents of the Government of Croatia's trust to Mrs Jadranki Kosor from the debate on the state of the nation, on the state of Croatian society to pure politics. I believe today's statement by my colleague Vladimir Seks is my belief, and I suppose I have the right to do so, indeed, to twilight and democracy and parliamentaryism. And he doesn't really deserve a comment anymore. However, I would refer to two very strong political themes that the personally prime minister tried to impose in public today. The first thesis is that the opposition is scratching for power, the only thing we want is power and that we want it in a very unhealthy way, and the second thesis is that the shift of this government would lead to a stalemate in all processes in society. So, as far as the first thesis on the struggle for power is concerned, I would remind the present prime minister that, in front of Croatian society, there is indeed a need for deep and serious reforms to be taken urgently to move the country into new development. It can only be a responsible policy whose politicians know, can and have courage. That as many of you gentlemen as you can, you know and have the courage to show it, and unfortunately, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have seen and felt it in their own skin. It's irresponsible, actually. It's something else. It is irresponsible to try to stay in power at all costs and regardless of the consequences. It is irresponsible to use a very transparent policy that is actually based on four things. First, that the economy will gradually recover from us because in the environment it happens to me, the radios will not work, I guess that's what we're going to do. The second thesis, we'll join the European Union, we've been talking about it for a long time, but I guess that'll finally happen, just as soon as we're not. Third, we will preserve social peace, how, with new responsibilities. And fourth, we're going to arrest the bastards from our ranks and their ranks, but we're not essentially touching the system. It is extremely irresponsible, I would say, despite my common sense to refuse to admit what is visible from the plane, what citizens are saying, what citizens warn about, what world institutions warn about. And there are actually no serious institutions from the World Bank, the IMF, the European Union, professional neutral public who do not warn about problems. The government relativizes these problems to the limit. It's like citizens are at the same time suffering from collective amnesia or some kind of collective blindness. So the only thing responsible policy can take is to admit that it is unable to deal with the challenges and to leave its place to those who are able to do so. As far as the second thesis is concerned, in order for there to be a stalemate in all processes, I, gentlemen, will answer with one fact, and also very carefully with the truth. Thanks to this government in Croatia, there is in fact only one single process on stage, which is the process of giving up, the process of slowing down and blurring. All we can think of is an attempt to transfer the withdrawal of important reforms in certain segments of society to opposition words and accusations. Well, you gentlemen are to blame for the reforms not being carried out, you're against reform. It's as if the government needs for God's sake for its wrong policies the unspeakable support of the opposition. And I guess it's just the opposite. Justifying itself with this rhetoric, the prime minister failed to carry out deep and painful cuts as she called them last July. She missed doing it again in August on budget rebalancing, so in December when we discussed the budget for this year and again on the recent rebalancing. So the last courageous measure to reduce the number of employees in state and public services was transferred by the end of next year. That is why I believe in the SDP, indeed, we rightly stress that there is actually a need for a stalemate and a change in what we are looking at today and we have as a government policy. Yes, we need to stop the process of further decomposition and what few production forces we have in Croatia. Yes, the process of impoverishing citizens and the consequences of debt slavery should be halted. Yeah, we need to stop the process of creating new poor people, and you new poor people know who they are? Young people, educated people, active economics. We need to stop the process of spending what we don't have and what we haven't earned. It is necessary to stop the process of disintegrating the pension and health system. And it is necessary to stop the attempt to fight corruption as an extremely important social process to be transferred to the field under the allegations of evil individuals and villains from our ranks that we have disposed of. I believe that citizens are sick of this kind of continuity and they're clearly and unequivocally telling you. So 80% of citizens think you are unable to run the Croatian state. 56% of young people think there's no perspective in staying in their own country. Well, gentlemen, it's devastating, it's devastating for the Prime Minister, it's devastating for the government, and it's devastating for the policy you're conducting. But it is important to tell colleagues and colleagues that the current situation in which Croatia is located is political and moral and economic agony has a solution, it is decisive. It is resolute because Croatia has resources for both human and economic and natural resources that should only be put into operation. What's missing for that? In my deep conviction, two things are missing. The first one I would call it a new Croatian social contract between the executive and citizens authorities in which the relationship will be based on citizens' trust and on fairer authority. And finally, one credible, fair, competent and trusted citizen-supported government is missing. Yes, a colleague was seriously questioned and the credibility and legitimacy of both the government and the president who led her. The reason is too much, too much and enough to step down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61398	Thank you. We have replicas first. First came Mr. Representative and Vice President Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61399	Thank you very much. Indeed, it was exciting and very serious to follow the debate of a respected representative where, as a taste of her debate, she claimed that my presentation today was a twilight of democracy. So, the twilight of democracy was because I exposed one political indictment and the verdict of the Social Democratic Party and its satellites, which I revealed that it was only by form of a request to initiate the confidence of the Prime Ministers, and by the content that it was a political indictment, a political verdict with all the features of a mounted political process. So I specifically exposed your tactics from your indictment, one meal and a slanderous lie that within the HDZ there are such inside-party conflicts that prevent the normal functioning of the government and block the government. And because I have exposed your great lie to your party president, who reiterated that your first colleague and representative Željko Jovanovic, where you have hardened and now again and the president of your party Jovanovic, is the top of the HDZ in political terms, a criminal organisation. Do you want to make a small inversion and write about it in your statements that the top of the SDP, the Social Democratic Party top of the SDP, is a criminal organisation, that criminal organisation, gang, is a criminal organization. Will you agree to be a criminal organization because you are or you are not?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61400	Thank you. Answer by Mrs. Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61401	Mr. Shakespeare, I told you I'm not going to waste a lot of words on you and your appearance today and I'm going to tell you just two things for a little while. You've exposed today, yes, but who? You've exposed yourself, Mr. Shakespeare. And secondly, what I have to tell you is that I am also optimistic that you and your party will one day understand what Franz Ezel said, and the state is not a cow that eats in the sky and on the land of the muse. I believe you'll understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61402	Replica, Mr. Representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61403	My colleague Jerkovic, by this late time today we were naturally witnesses of an attempt to characterise a legitimate initiative of normal opposition in a normal democratic parliament as a minor coup and a blow to the Croatian Democratic Community, namely the Prime Minister, Mrs Jadranka Kosor. And the point is very simple. We wanted to show that not that she wasn't guilty but that she was responsible. The guilt is one thing, and the responsibility of the other because, despite the declared economic recovery that neither G nor O unemployment continues to grow, wage default still has a trend of non-payment of salaries, and that no one is responding, that the prices of goods and services are growing, that wages and pensions remain where they are and that the less and less, that the gross social product is falling, that the external debt is growing, that the individence in the system is growing and now the miracles are all the fault of Racan's government, but why did we start between, and why we even started this debate? Well, because in the meantime, the treasurer of the ruling party is also accused of stealing, because it's called stealing when someone takes money, my money, my budget money, it's called stealing, no different, taxpayers, because the minister of police is not Kirin, but the minister of police in the HDZ government allegedly easily admitted that, I gave 17 million kunas, not my money, but my mom's money that pays taxes, and my money, he gave it because he said who? Sanader. Because this government doesn't government the edge of Racan created a climate to group citizens in this.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61404	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61405	It occurs to me to buy the Supreme Court, ma'am... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61406	Thank you. Replica reply, Ms. Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61407	It needs to be changed. Then they yell down the opposition. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61408	My colleague Denon, it's an unusual story about guilt and responsibility. The HDZ is today acting as if it had slept through years and years at the very least, as if they did not know they had been in power for two mandates. And yes, it's all their fault. It's all their fault. It is the government of the late Ivica Racan, it is the wrong opposition as a whole, it is the unions, it is the workers, it is Željko Rohatinski's fault, everyone is guilty, just not those who were in power here, i.e. they are in power already two mandates. Now what's the solution? I think it might be good if one 4 million citizens simply moved out of Croatia and let the ruling live with themselves and with what's left of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61409	Replica, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61410	Comrade Jerkovic, you have reminded us of two important moments of discussion today about this request for confidence by the Prime Minister. The ruling repeats that the opposition's request wants to bring down the government. And it should be criminal, it should be sin, inadmissible, forbidden, unconstitutional, which I don't know. Why? Here again someone has to eat more honey and fruit to recover. So they call it dangerous. What's more dangerous than missing, overseeing and criticizing the government if you think it's not working well? It's more dangerous to leave them in power because he becomes an accomplice and you're held accountable if you see someone not well and you keep quiet, then we're equally guilty. And secondly, you call on citizens in the streets and squares. It is also terribly forbidden by the Croatian Constitution and law. You can't do that. Although we could never hear it from you SDP, it's from me, but then what? Is it possible that this has changed the Constitution without any of us from the opposition knowing that demonstrations in Croatia are forbidden, or are you so afraid of the will of citizens that they should accidentally say something on the streets as well? So what? And the taste of the behavior of the ruling is approximately the following. I am seeing a proposal for constitutional changes where the new Constitution will write in the Republic of Croatia it is forbidden to criticise Jadranka Kosor and the Croatian Democratic Community.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61411	Answer, Ms. Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61412	Thank you very much. My colleague Lesar... absurda, with all that we have today in Croatia, this government headed by the Prime Minister is considered successful, which paradox and absurda. [[You don't understand.]] So in Croatia, more than a million people are officially poor, which is a quarter of the country, and they are considered successful, and this government is considered successful. How is it possible that the policy that brought us here where we are is considered successful? Well, I don't even know how I can sleep with the fact that so many have nothing to eat, and they're considered successful at the same time. Great.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61413	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61414	Well, MP Jerkovic said that from Vice President Seks it was the twilight of democracy. Well, fellow Members, it's dawn, but the problem is in you, you can't see that dawn, because you've been living in the dark of hate for years. And your task should be to spread brotherhood and unity, not hatred and anger here. And finally make a deal on that side, we've already heard so many percentages today that don't support this government, 49, 50, so now you said 80, by midnight we'll be over 100%. Come on, please, make more arrangements.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61415	Thank you. It is Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61416	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Why this debate on the confidence of the Prime Minister of Jadranka Kosor today? For the truth. As it is true, Mr. Vice-President Shakespeare, that you cannot say that the SDP summit is in a political sense a responsibility and a criminal organisation because that title has already been taken over by the HDZ. The top of HDZ is panicking about the truth and this is our main goal today in every debate, the SDP will point out with truth the inability, ignorance, irresponsibility of the government and the HDZ top official, and at the same time offer solutions and thus show that not all politicians are the same and that not all parties in this country are equal. It is true that the SDP cannot be responsible that Jadranka Kosor has not dared to pass certain laws, such as it cannot be responsible for failing to implement the reforms, as it is not responsible for having adopted a budget rebalancing which has been assessed by all the professional public. Unfortunately, the SDP cannot call early elections, but the SDP will not collect people on the Split coast with these circumstances, neither will it bind itself with chains in Gospić, it will not read or chestnut in Zagreb, and thus invite people on the road to demonstrate to call early elections as it seemed at the time of Racan's government. But in this House, they will use all the methods allowed by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure to point to ignorance, incompetence, irresponsibility of the current government. Today's debate on the mistrust of Jadranka Kosor is the commitment of the SDP to our voters as a responsible opposition that has launched more than 50 different initiatives in this term in the Parliament than which more than 30 legislative proposals, which has shown that we want to help you, the ruling coalition, this government, to create a solution for the better life of people in Croatia. In all the above cases, the SDP acted extremely seriously and responsibly proposing to the Croatian Parliament to make decisions that would be in the best interest of the Republic of Croatia and of all citizens. In this regard, SDP representatives were not driven by any party interest but solely by the desire to improve the country's economic, political and social status. All that Sanader-Cosor government refused. And not only that, two Sanader-Cosors like everyone else in the ruling coalition ignored and mocked our proposals, and you didn't offer your own solutions. Our obligation here today to tell the Croatian public loudly in Croatia is that in the last year of the term of office of Jadranka Kosor, an additional 100,000 jobs have disappeared, 20 jobs have been put out daily, 300 thousand people are unemployed today, 85 thousand workers are not getting paid even though it works, 80% of the workers cannot feed their family from their salary, and 90% of the pension families are on the verge of hunger because their pension is not enough to direct and feed. If that's the success of this government, then I really don't know what a failure would be. It is not the result of the general economic crisis but of corruption and crime, ignorance and irresponsibility in the direction and mandate of Sanader-Kosor of the government. Sanader-Kosor The government has led Croatia to the limits of endurance. We are going through economic, moral and political agony and the SDP will not, nor will it share responsibility with the ruling coalition and Prime Minister Kosor. The government of Jadranka Kosor as the successor of Ivo Sanader is questionable and formal and content. There is a questionable legitimacy, and we are essentially in Croatia at this point, nor do we have a government that governs the state, but we have a group of witnesses who are all together only considering how to wash away the impure conscience of the prime minister and the entire government from Sanader's mentorship. Any SDP agent could today state a minimum of 3 reasons for not trusting this government. So we're bored, and we're done this day and this night we've heard and we're going to hear at least 150 different reasons why Sanader-Cosor government has to leave right now. We heard from our president Milanovic, counterparts Linic and others who have already said that three are key arguments. First, the government of Jadranka Kosor is responsible for the increasingly poor economic situation, for example. And for the ruin of the shipbuilding that will take 12,000 people to the kitchen in Rijeka. The government of Jadranka Kosor is responsible for not implementing economic reforms due to ignorance. Let's remember the harras of health, the harras don't pay, the harras of pensions, the short-term harras of the lives of Croatian citizens. Let us remember the irresponsibility and damage of 2 billion kuna due to the chaos of pension reform. Let us remember cowardice in the implementation of the announced reforms, so the economic crisis has turned into a general social crisis and ended today in the most severe crisis, the crisis of state governance. Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor and her government no longer manage themselves, let alone the crisis. So we come to the third, key argument why did Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor absolutely lose credibility in the eyes of Croatian citizens? Due to numerous affairs related to HDZ leaders, criminal acts and malfeasances, within party HDZ chaos has become a weight that Croatia has become in line with HDZ slogan "Let's move on!" It's pulling really far away from recovery and getting closer to total economic bankruptcy and social breakdown. If we look at the 17 years of HDZ's government model then we see that after Tudjman's cult of personality, Sanader's cult of duality came the cult of Prime Minister Kosor, a cult of illogicality. Mrs. Kosor, she is gone, but her latest statements seriously point to either a complete lack of ability to make logical conclusions or to consciously mock the common sense of Croatian citizens. Both are sufficient reasons for today's citizens' well-being to distrust the government of Jadranka Kosor. Croatian citizens are an employer to this Parliament, Croatian citizens are an employer to this government and the Constitutional Court. And if 800,000 of them are asking us to fulfill it. Today's debate is on the trail. Let us listen to one series: Damir Polancec, Berislav Rončević, Mladen Barisic, Neven Jurica, Darko Beuk, Ivan Mravak, Jurica Prskalo, Ivo Bačić, Rade Buljubašić, Milinović Pocrnić, Davorin Kopac, Zdravko Šjeak, Mario Lovrinčević, Goran Legac, Biserka Robić, Goran Vukasović, Drago Maceček, Ante Luetić, add here and the supervisors of Bozidar Kalmet and Branko Vukelić, Kirina with 17 million in FIMA, 40 million; Jandroković, who does not know what he opens, which closes, Cobanković, Milinović, who have made an interesting donation of some 8 million kunas for which nobody knows how; Ivan Schuker, who raises his hand for materials he never read. I could still count the whole night, but I think this is enough to end up with a list on which the great maestro, director, theatre director Ivo Sanader and his right-hand heir whom he has appointed and appointed Jadranka Kosor. Each name is one link in the chain of responsibility, one brick in the pyramid of a politically harmful organisation that the state-owned firm used as its own personal party ATM, which has robbed the state budget, the salaries of workers and pensions of pensioners by its behaviour, ignorance, irresponsibility after the destroyed 400,000 jobs of the 1990s when the mother of all today's corruptions was born from 2003 to today grew by a corrupt HDZ octopus that ate in 7 years more than 100 billion kuna and irretrievably destroyed an entire state budget. And I conclude, the Croatian state has been organised in 10 plus 7 years to continuously produce corruption and to change this, corruption production must be excluded. Because DORH currently only handles production waste in which the current government has actively or passively participated for 2 mandates already. Early elections, therefore, would not stop the fight against corruption but rather the opposite, would prevent further corruption from being produced. And that is why we need elections, so each of us needs to make a contribution, and the biggest contribution for Croatia is for Jadranka Kosor to sign her resignation, for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61417	Why do you think you can be an investigator, prosecutor and judge? Why did you think you were all together? First, it will correct Mrs. Wesna Buterin's incorrect claim.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61418	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I am correcting Mr Jovanovic's incorrect allegations that the HDZ summit is panickingly afraid of the truth. It's completely and absolutely incorrect. That is why Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor has launched a decisive and uncompromising fight against corruption. However, Mr. Jovanovic, when you talk so much about the truth that you love so much, tell us why you as deputy mayor of Rijeka still haven't broken a harmful contract of markets with the city of Rijeka, and why are you still doing damage to the budget of the city of Rijeka and to all citizens in the city of Rijeka? Also, when you're telling the truth then tell us Mr. Jovanovic and the truth about over 140 million kunas of purposeless budget spending in the city of Rijeka, which is spent against the legal provisions, tell us the real truth of what it's spent on?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61419	Thank you. Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure by Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61420	Article 209 of Mrs Buterin did not correct anything, but she asked me questions, and then she could lift the yellow plate with a replica so that I could answer everything she asked. So instead of correcting the incorrect quote she was asking questions. How am I supposed to answer her questions if she hasn't raised her line? So I'd like to ask future colleagues from HDZ to freely lift the line I'll answer them all because I'm a man who's not afraid of the truth, but is a great advocate of the truth and it's proven...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61421	I guess she asked you two questions, because in the list of her accusations and the names you said you didn't include that she thinks you should include. That's why. Mr. Representative and Vice President Vladimir Seks, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61422	It is an incorrect and false and defamatory claim by Agent Jovanovic that the HDZ summit is a criminal organisation. It is true that the SDP summit is a criminal organisation and that Article 129 should be considered. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on a provision that speaks of the Constitutional Court overseeing the constitutionality of the programme and the activities of political parties and may, in accordance with the Constitution, prohibit their work. You are the top of the SDP destroying the fundamental principles of constitutional order, not recognising the Constitutional Court's decision, and that is why you are coming, you could come under the laws and bans of the SDP political party.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61423	Correction of the incorrect quote by Mrs. Gyurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61424	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Here's a little bit longer for me. The presentation of Agent Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61425	Please, please, you have a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61426	So thank you very much. Mr. Jovanovic's hypocrisy and inaccuracy and false is completely as I said. I'll try to correct only a few of these hypocritical, false and incorrect allegations he's exhibited here. And among other things, it's about corruption that this government is knowingly mocking common sense. Well, that's not true, Mr. Jovanovic. On Sunday at 14.00 p.m. on the question of Mr. Manager and about the markets and 80 million reasons that have been stolen, you say, "SDP when stealing and robbing, then you call it a rescue." You said they saved 80 million, and I guess when you're flying for 7 kuna and that's what Mr. Leader asked you to do, you told her, so it was a clumsy holiday. Well, good for you, just like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61427	Correction Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61428	Well, my colleague Jovanovic said a lot of false things there. For example. He certainly doesn't know, but that's what he said 85 workers do and he doesn't get paid. I'd beg him to tell me what relevant source told him if he knew. He also said that this government is responsible for all the bad things, etc. But you know, colleague Jovanovic of yours actually springs from the political rage that you are in vain here spilling and your bile in the campaign against HDZ, the government can't really help you because you are inconclusive in your accusation, where you have a lot of lies that would even kill this Count Muncause that he can hear you. But I'm sure of one thing that you know best and in the SDP you understand best why HDZ is usually always a winning party.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61429	Correction of an incorrect allegation, Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61430	Well, Mr. Jovanovic said more incorrect allegations. One is that Mrs. Jadranka Kosor is a questionable legitimacy. We have repeatedly repeated here today that the Croatian Parliament has chosen by its majority the Prime Minister, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, and that she is not elected in the direct elections. Therefore, legitimacy is confirmed in this High House if you confess it. Another allegation is that this government does not implement reforms for a hundred times today. This government is conducting reforms, it's simply not true from pension, health, tax reform of the judiciary, and you're simply telling the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61431	Thank you. We have a further correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61432	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleagues and colleagues have corrected mostly the allegations. This one that particularly bothers me is therefore not to implement reforms. I think it would be a good idea to look at the report on the implementation of the plan for the implementation of the economic recovery programme, so you would find there I think one 10 items of fiscal policy, public administration, state property management, government contribution,... I'm glad you didn't notice one thing, not a single note to health care, except the one I'm going to talk about when I speak individually, and health reform. [[You don't understand.]] There was no praise for the reforms of the health sector, because you understand that, and you know that it was done, and there are no more minuses in health care as they were. Therefore, and your observations in this document, the proposal is almost minor and irrelevant when it comes to health care, and it is known how much of the state budget goes to health care. And finally, really, the most damage you do is fight corruption, because you're standing at the head of a body like that, and you're ideolizing and you're actually preventing the fight against corruption. It's really a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61433	Correction, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61434	Thank you, Mr. President. It is an incorrect allegation of fellow Jovanovic that this government has a questionable legitimacy. The legitimacy of this Government was given by the Croatian Parliament, after the Prime Minister clearly proved that he has the support of the majority in the Croatian Parliament and there is no questionable legitimacy, it is the legitimacy given by this House, the Croatian Parliament as it did on legal grounds, and no one can dispute the legitimacy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the head of Mrs Jadranka Kosor. As for the rest, counterpart Jovanovic, your hatred for HDZ, according to all that is Croatia's most severe punishment for yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61435	Thank you. Mr. Josip Salapic's representative will make it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61436	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On several occasions, Mr Jovanovic spoke the government, Sanader, Kosor. Mr. Jovanovic, there is a Croatian government in this country and is chaired by Mrs. Kosor, and since you have been taking the job of Mr. Karamark lately, acting as Minister of the Interior, we will sit here not one, but a thousand and one night so that a man like you, with your rhetoric, never comes to power in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61437	Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61438	Thank you, Mr. President. Among the accusations you made to Mr Jovanovic, a single piece of information was stolen and incorrect. So many arguments that you and your president have started your discussion with. You said it was an unemployed 300 grand. That's not true. It is true that the average number of employees by administrative sources in 2004 and 2009 was 1,478 million and increased by 9% compared to the period in which you ruled, at 1,360 million and the average number of registered unemployed persons in 2004 to 2009 was 279 thousand and decreased by 23% compared to the period in which you ruled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61439	Another Nevenka, Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic, will correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61440	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's the representative Jovanovic, not a lie or a whole speech is a lie, otherwise it should be said that this is already the third speech, the same speech that Mr. Jovanovic is speaking and is not even original anymore, and it's not even interesting. What did he say? He said that the government, or HDZ, continuously produces corruption, which is indeed not true, the government of Mrs Jadranka Kosor is constantly fighting corruption, and you as chairman of the Commission, the National Council for Monitoring the implementation of the strategy should be a little more familiar with all these measures that this Government is implementing. And there is something else you should know, but as president of the National Council, you should know, that is, ask your representatives, or those who were even in the Government in 2000 to 2003, why in February 2002 when they spoke in this Croatian Parliament about corruption, a decision was made to establish a Monitoring Committee, or to implement it in the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61441	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61442	From February 2002 to the end of 2003, it means two years.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61443	Finish up, Madam Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61444	Two years they couldn't start it, and that's your reason. That's why there's corruption. Now we're, uh, we're all clear later on why you didn't want to do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61445	We're moving on to replicas. The first replica is Mrs. MP and Vice-President Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61446	Mr Jovanovic, although you are only the third representative from the SDP Club who has managed to participate in the debate, I think that even before your presentation, and especially in your presentation, all the reasons and all the arguments that we are very critical of this government are listed, and that is why we are asking citizens to pay either to this or to any new future government. You said, among other things, that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are paying both this government and all of us here. Our reasons give rise to many controversys on the other side, and I don't think they lead to anything. We can bear the insults, but we are obliged to take care of what those who pay us feel. I'm going to read you a telegram that's arrived, today has a well-deserved day off, today I don't raise the porridges that I'm going to do for another 27 years, clean, iron, cook and wait for kids from kindergarten, listen and watch you, unfortunately your husband did his time in '95, but not for this kind of Croatia. Every day I fear more and more for my husband and the future of my children. I feel clear, with five credits I'm ashamed of this country. Here is not because of the insults that come and that we can endure, but because of these feelings of our citizens who have concluded that this government, if there is anything else to go about because there is no result, I am giving up the further debate and I am publicly withdrawing my debate because I think I have said everything to this telegram too.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61447	My colleague Antunovic, you've replicated Mr Jovanovic, but I think. Just so much, I notice it from time to time, and so little to myself. Mr. Nenad Stazic will, too. Excuse me, Mr. Jovanovic has an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61448	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. counterpart Antunovic, what I am only the third SDP parliamentary representative to have the opportunity to speak today is another proof of the irresponsibility of this ruling coalition. Steal the order of debate, so my people do what they do in the election when they steal in polling stations where there's no control. Stealing... Reported in the debate were SDP's. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Today only 3 in the first 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61449	Replica, Mr. Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61450	You told your colleague Jovanovic there are 100 reasons why this government should fall. You did not, however, state and mention the reasons... Which is why she should not fall, which was mentioned in the debate. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] For one reason, the government's request to resign itself is the fact that the opposition sets out a request for the government's fall is a return to communism. That's a very valuable reason. As others... Why this government shouldn't fall is because Racan's government was bad. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] That's also a very valuable reason. And for the third reason... We've heard that people aren't hungry, and even if they are themselves guilty because they're not going to read the Mandarins on Jamba's plantations. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] It's a message from this government how to get rid of hungry people in the country. But also for... The speakers speak out loud, they don't understand. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61451	Save your nerves and move on. ... No one's bothered you before. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61452	But behind all these reasons, colleagues of Jovanovic about fear, fear of citizens, fear of elections, fear of referendums... This fear is so great that Vice President Shakespeare allows himself to threaten the Constitutional Court over which he apparently has influence and makes a threat that through the Constitutional Court he will ban a party who has dared... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61453	Thank you. You got that compensation, thank you. We have an answer, Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61454	Thank you, Mr. President. So Col. Stazic's entire debate today shows how much for the ruling coalition this House is one marginal body, a simple voting machine that has only one task on them – to worship a cult of personality... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61455	You guys know what fascinates me about this whole thing? The amount of hate that's being poured out here today. And whoever hates him usually breaks his complexion and hates gets his boomerang on whoever sent her. So let me warn you. No one's hatred and impatience can be an ally at the very least, but it'll be like I say boomerang, whoever recognizes himself in this matter applies to him. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mrs. Biljana Borzana has. Now what? Here you go. Replica? Mrs. Biljana Borzana has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61456	Mr Jovanovic, in his 10 minutes of debate, you gave a good cut to everything the opposition wanted to send a message and which is why we actually sent this request today to the Parliament. And what did we get in return? The accusations that we are not state-of-the-art, that we will restore communism. Which is all, I can't even remember exactly how many meals were at the expense of the SDP, at the expense of the individuals of Mr Linic, Mršić, Picule, meaning these things that have already been solved in favor of our people. All that together, one great nervousness that's been exhibited here in the Parliament today is simply fascinating. We were accused that we were not pro-European, and Mr. Hebrang said in 2008 that if we were to change the leadership of the state of the helm or the driver that we would not, that the train to Europe would remain unattainable. And we changed it, and here's what happened. Obviously, that train is inconceivable to us. Our people don't care who was communist or who wasn't, or if the prime minister was at Kumrov school, whether I refused or was in the Union of Communists, that's not what you live out of. 200 people who are out of work today, 85 or how many thousands of people who have been out of work since the government of Mrs. Kosor, all this is expensive to them today, which is said to the SDP absolutely nothing. And why is that so nervous and threatened? Because simply HDZ can't boast of anything because if they could say anything for their own good, they would use it today, not a complete story, to transfer responsibility to the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61457	Answer, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61458	It's just the key to the last thing you said. So, today, by starting a debate on the mistrust of the Government of Jadranka Kosor, we gave the colleagues of the ruling coalition a chance to show us that we are in error, that they have solutions, that they can enable Croatian citizens to have a better salary, a better pension, better health care. But they don't know that, they're only fighting for these chairs, to stay here until the end of the term, and they're not interested in anything else. They don't care about Croatian citizens. They only care about their chairs and the good pay they have in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61459	Do we have any more reports? Only if they give up on the replica. We have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 more replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61460	Well, you want to let go after that, I'm looking for a break. I mean, he can do it right now, but how do we end up?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61461	Okay. Mr. Rajko Ostojić is also a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61462	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Jovanovic, the nation's vitality is measured by the number of people who created that nation, our country. We're lucky at least my generation was actively creating a state. Two ways first. First he allowed the law that was a referendum on what you have now banned, where 90 per cent of citizens and citizens of Croatia voted for Croatia's independence. Then unfortunately, there was a war, an aggression against our country, and then next to Darko Milinovic, who knew from before Andrija Hebrang, met Bagaric, Strickic, Jovanovic we put on ZNG, the ZNG military troops went into the army and defended our country. Five years later it was Flash, 10 years later it was GDP 0.9%. Recession as a Croatian invention, 20 years later the same thing and corruption again. Let us definitely consider all MPs and MPs and remember that unfortunately some officials, some officials over the past 20 years have invested significantly more in their independence than in our country's independence. And let's remember how it started 20 years ago. And that's why we're in the Fleet, and we're in medicine doing a float, 5, 10 and 12 years. 10 years after the recession as a Croatian invention, 20 years after the fight against corruption. And once again, I personally support that the M.O.P. investigators have finally gone to Washington to investigate Daimler to investigate all those things that need to be investigated in all the mandates of all the governments. And only in this way can we make a new Croatian contract, a contract with the people and make a new contract with our citizens and citizens. Without it, nothing. And that is why Minister Ivić's knightage I hope that he will finally announce these defenders, because we who built the state in '91. There were 150 of us, 170 thousand of us, not 500 grand.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61463	Thank you. Answer Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61464	Thank you, Mr. President. You said good to Comrade Ostojić that... that Croatia would be a healthy nation would have to have a Minister of Health and not a Minister of Finance who imagined that the Minister of Health and who in his reform is the only thing that does less than take care of the health of the nation. But the biggest tragedy in this House is when Jovanovic says not to think about what Jovanovic is saying, but because it is called Jovanovic. And Jovanovic is a colleague of Ostojić Jovanovic's. So, Mr Matušić said Zeljko Jovanovic hates HDZ and everything that is Croatian. Mr. Matušić you didn't know my wife was Croat, my son is Croat and you can be ashamed. But what to expect from the flute that deserted from Dubrovnik while I wore the Croatian Army uniform.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61465	Don't spread the conflict area. Don't go to another field in a desert struggle to prove your point of view. I'm begging you. I beg you again, everyone who goes to that field is wrong in this debate. This debate has nothing to do with it. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Frano Matušić, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61466	Thank you, Mr. President. Articles 214 and 209 have been injured. I was very honorable in Dubrovnik when Dubrovnik attacked and I played a very honorable role as did most artists in Croatia who did their job. I had a work obligation. So I couldn't be a deserter. You've already said that once, and you'll have to prove it before the court, because I'm going to sue you for that slander and insult. But it doesn't matter to me, of course, that you hate both HDZ and everything that is Croatian, because you prove it from moment to moment, but it is even worse than that because you are a traitor because you did not vote for Croatia's independence. You didn't want to vote for Croatia's independence. And you are a traitor to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61467	Please, I'm trying to end this debate in some bearable context. Such now qualifications that are actually initiated that HDZ is a criminal organisation, then it rolls further and as it rolls creates an even bigger wheel. Please, can we agree to finish this debate somehow? And we have 52 more speakers times at least 20 minutes, because 10 minutes is a debate, then replicas, correcters of incorrect allegations, and I said a little over the head for 20 minutes. When we multiply it, it's almost 11 o'clock. I'm warning you about that. And if we keep spreading the terminology, I'm going to call it so naive terminology. It has a very significant content that we have now expanded in these discussions, there is no end to it. There's no end. So please take one more time so I can sit here like you, although I'm sure this isn't exactly what I'm particularly glad they're gonna be sitting here for another 10, 11 hours. But here's Mrs. Romana Jerkovic's replica, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61468	Dear colleague, the government has lost its legitimacy. But what's tragic is the fact that lost legitimacy is trying to find it by walking through Europe. You see, what the government has lost is not our fault. But it would be our fault if we didn't try everything in our power and everything that stands at our disposal so that the search for lost legitimacy doesn't turn into a search for lost time. Because time is irreparable, and what essentially means lost generations and questionable futures. It is precisely this future that requires new elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61469	Answer, Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go. Thank you. Mr. Luke Denon, same replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61470	Col. Jovanovic, today we have tried here until 11 o'clock in our opening presentations and unfortunately only three individual discussions and something through replicas, to show what our part of the citizens thinks, and thinks that it is not living well, that unemployment is growing, that with the salary and pension we receive, we cannot live with dignity, and we have tried this as an argument to this side to say and show that such a government that so cares for its citizens should call the elections and see who will then win in these elections. The argumentation on this side was that it was not true, that in Croatia it was good, that we lived well, that we were a step to Europe, that we knew what we were doing, that we were coming out of the crisis, this is just that citizens unfortunately don't know it. If you're so sure that's what you say, then there's no reason to call the election, because it's likely that 80% of the citizens will vote so well for you. But it's not the scariest thing. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I don't know if you listened well to what was happening in this House about 10 minutes ago, here your vice president said and issued a threat that a parliamentary party should be abolished, the parliamentary party should be abolished. That, in my interpretation, which I'm not a constitutional expert, is called the Constitution suspension. It's called Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, and you're another man in Croatia, it's called a coup. If you like. Cancellation of the party is a coup. So we'll only have one HDZ. If you are going to miss it so much, you have not even warned your vice president that such big and difficult words do not address the Croatian Parliament, to abolish the legitimate opposition party, I do not think it is even polite of you, that you should at least warn him.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61471	Thank you. I will answer to the extent I understand Mr. Shakespeare. I can't do what he thought. However, he called for an appropriate article in the Constitution that provides for the possibility, if a party comes out of the framework of constitutional tasks that must actually be fulfilled, then that can happen. He did not say that he was deciding or proposing, but that it could be based on an article in the Constitution. Therefore, while it is a constitutional possibility, it is legitimate to discuss it. Please, do you want Mr. Jovanovic? No, I don't. Thank you. Mrs. Shimac Bonačić. Mrs. Tatjana Šimac Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61472	Thank you very much. A colleague, Jovanovic, among the names you have listed, mentioned also the party's chief treasurer, the head of customs, the key racketeer. In January, it was removed from all party functions, but left it all until recently at the head of one of the most significant levers of each country, headed by customs. Asking why we got the answer won't be tried in Ibler Square. I don't know if you know that when he came to the post, there were 10 customs offices in Croatia, but every year he worked, opened another one, probably to hire by party and maternity ties. This same man, immediately after arriving at the head of customs, replaced the then head of the Dubrovnik customs office, which is why I am mentioning him today. This man who worked consciously and honestly, he protected the state budget, and as head of the board dared to initiate a misdemeanor against large fish. He discovered and dared to process illegally imported ships, which were of course vessels by an aquarium belonging to the Dubrovnik customs office. Of course, among them, there was a catamaran who received a state concession, receiving a huge high-level state subsidy, but which was not paid for import duties. The man's been removed, he's been demoted, he's been mobbed, and it's no wonder why the Mobing Act wasn't adopted. Of course, in the appeal procedure after that, the correctness of his procedure was confirmed, at least giving him moral satisfaction. This is how she worked and works for the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61473	Thank you very much. Answer Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61474	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Simac-Bonačić, you mentioned one of the key things why we have today discussed the mistrust of the Government of Jadranka Kosor. So Mr. Barisic, the party's chief treasurer, a key figure with Minister of Finance Suker, Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor and former Prime Minister Sanader, devised a model for both state-owned companies, who used as a state ATM machine, to draw money to finance personal needs and party interests, and to finance political campaigns from Jadranka Kosor's presidential campaign, to the latest parliamentary elections. So if such money is pronounced, dirty money, and it's funded by political campaigns, then it's a question of the legitimacy of the government that's being realised in such a way that it's financed by dirty money by a political racket given by state-owned companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61475	Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic, you again following my humble warning that no one here should play the role of investigators, prosecutors and judges, you reiterated it. In these circumstances, such a debate cannot, therefore, end this debate in a civilized way and all leads to the fact that in the end, there will be a situation here when it is constantly provoked, when hatred is poured out. Well, my people, shall we stop it already? With regard to Mr Luke Denone, who mentioned this, I will return just one moment to that, Article 129. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia 8th states, therefore to the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia: "He oversees the constitutionality of the programmes and the activities of political parties and can prohibit their work in accordance with the Constitution." That's all there is to it now. It says here, he mentioned the 129th article of the Constitution, and there is still no need to discuss it here. What? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61476	That's not what we're gonna burn to the parties... That's what the Constitution says, Mr. Shakespeare didn't mention. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] He did not connect to the article, but the common sense says when the vice-president of the parliament threatens that a democratic party in the Croatian Parliament can be abolished that means that the suspension of the Constitution, that it is a coup and that we are returning to one-party. That's how I interpret it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61477	Mr. Vice President Shakespeare mentioned the article of the Constitution on the basis of which he spoke. And in that very fact, when the article of the Constitution is mentioned, it is not only about its personal opinion but about the constitutional possibility that the Constitutional Court can properly apply. And I don't see there, that he didn't mention the article of the Constitution, but only talking about how a party should be banned then it's different. Here. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61478	Clear 209th, paragraph 2. - I did not call for the ban on the Social Democratic Party of the SDP. I referred to the constitutional provision of Article 129. The constitution that President Bebic had just quoted, which I said in the context of disputed the inaccuracy of the false claim made by Agent Jovanovic and MP Milanovic, that the HDZ summit was a criminal organisation rather than that the SDP summit is a criminal organisation and that the SDP summit threatens the foundations of constitutional order and fundamental constitutional principles and in this context the question of application of Article 129 can also be asked. The Constitution. So, I'm a colleague of Denona's nothing to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61479	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61480	I'm just warning you of a provision of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61481	Thank you very much. Do we, please? ... We can't now. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] There is no business opportunity, perhaps I was wrong to return to that article of the Constitution, but I found the need to clarify the matter anyway. And now I'm asking Mr. Gordan Maras for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61482	Thank you very much. A colleague, Jovanovic HDZ, is afraid of the citizens who are watching us today. He's afraid of new elections, and I thought that the times when words and political action banned parties from these times were far behind us. But apparently Mr. Vladimir Seks decided to return bettervism to Croatia. Shex's announcement to abolish a parliamentary party, and probably follows now the State Protection Act where it will be declared that HDZ must remain in power forever. I just didn't notice if Mr. Shakespeare had a little finger in the air the whole time, that would help me distinguish his intentions for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61483	Answer, Mr. Zeljko. Nothing? Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the president of SDP's Club of Representatives Mr. Milanovic has requested a 15-minute break, and of course Mr. Hebrang, Mrs. Pusic, Mr. Cain, on behalf of the club, asks the same thing. Thank you. I'm setting a break of 15 minutes. We'll continue at 11.15 minutes. ... Just to get the SDP back because they were the first to ask for this, so there's no point in giving someone else my word because we don't know what the SDP would suggest. [[Home is not saved.]] So, let's be patient for a few more minutes, it's been 15 minutes since we've been here, and 20 minutes means maximum tolerance on our part. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, we will proceed with the session. We've been taking a little longer but not much, five minutes or 10 I don't know. Anyway, we're moving on. On behalf of the SDP club, which was the first to seek a break, Mr. Representative and Club President Mr. Milanovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61485	"It is incorrect and false and defamatory assertion by Agent Jovanovic that the HDZ summit is a criminal organisation. It is true that the SDP summit is a criminal organisation and that Article 129 should be considered. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on a provision that speaks of the Constitutional Court overseeing the constitutionality of the programme and the activities of political parties and may, in accordance with the Constitution, prohibit their work. You are the top of the SDP destroying the fundamental principles of constitutional order, not recognising the Constitutional Court's decision, and therefore you could come very much under the influence of the law and banning the political party of the SDP." Not principles, principles are procedures, but values of constitutional order are that whoever read the Constitution knows. Look in this atmosphere after this statement by the Vice-President of the Parliament, the SDP will no longer participate, and you will. And I'll say the rest on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61486	Mr. Andrija Hebran, president of the HDZ Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61487	Mr. President, Madam President, colleagues and colleagues. It had to come to this because we've been dragging too long an object that's ahead of us, excited and tired and said a few words more. The word for word, chain reaction, and here we have come to the conclusion of the debate at one comment or one point of view. I don't think that's correct, because there's been a lot of and too much more difficult qualifications than this one since this morning, so far, a lot more difficult words have been said, a lot more insults. What we were listening to today, a colleague of Milanovic, when we took out a phonogram, believe me, it would be a black book. We should not be hunted for one representative's statement, interrupted the debate on one important topic, but should say we crossed the line. We think it's us, you think it's us. We could end up in the interest of Croatian citizens and citizens calmly having this debate with one agreement and compromise, with one vote and let's see how the citizens will think about both the authorities and the opposition tomorrow. We're sending a bad message with a flat break, because we could give a lot more quotes about what you said, but I think we've been very tolerant today. So here I call you to tolerance and to bring this debate to an end peacefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61488	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61489	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Hebrang said it was a statement from a representative. Mr. Shex has been vice president of this House for 20 years as parliamentary representative, the author of constitutional change. He represents in this House a tradition and in some ways has a certain status. When it says so by Vice President of the Parliament, who even in public is perceived as someone who has an influence on the Constitutional Court, it is a little more serious than a mere and random quote or a tired representative or certain other problems that the representative might at some point have. I think what Mr. Shakespeare did, and now the president of the SDP quoted it as inadmissible in democratic countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61490	Ms. Vesna Pusic, on behalf of the HNS club, HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61491	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister with members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. This debate was launched because there have been certain changes in parliament that have made to the parliamentary majority in question. Both the examination and review of the existence of the parliamentary majority is the necessity and obligation of this Parliament. Your former member, your former president and former prime minister, said today that he cannot vote against the government and the parliamentary majority he created himself, but clearly cannot vote for it. Because if he could vote for now, he'd be here. This suggests that the parliamentary majority that supports this government is questionable, because in this House there is much more often vote for the government than against what is tonight. So the situation in which the parliamentary majority is no longer stable and secure requires this kind of debate and review. On behalf of the HNS and HSU club, I'd like to say one more thing. The use of European institutions to defile and degrade political competition is an unusually dangerous thing. There are only a few people in this country who are able to help this country finish this process successfully and quickly, and it is important and successful and fast. And if European institutions are used on such occasions, to degrade and defile political competition, this job will not succeed. It's dangerous and harmful for this country. Think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61492	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61493	Good evening, gentlemen. And nothing, we'll do. Now it's worth completing this debate that we started, how it started, even though I'd be the luckiest to get it over with as soon as possible. But it is not my intention to be honest, nor to insult, nor to disrespect, that I respect effort, work, everyone in this and the government and in the council benches, but some gentlemen have indeed exaggerated. I want to say that what we had a chance to listen to, that's not how it's done. I respect Mr. Shakespeare, but he's starting to threaten us, and that's just not Mr. Shakespeare well. On the other hand, some of the opposition don't know that overnight, and tomorrow the opposition will come to power, will be in that opposition IDS, I believe, simply can't achieve better. It's not possible to achieve overnight better. But if you don't steal Mrs. Prime Minister, it's already done a lot. It's already done a lot. Now who can believe these threats, I'll tell Mr. Shakespeare here, whom I respect otherwise, and 20 years in this House when a court says or realizes he's simply not telling the truth. HDZ is not gentlemen of Croatia. The HDZ may have created Croatia, but I'm afraid it's destroyed the nation at this point. And what scares me the most, gentlemen, let's not threaten each other, because I'm afraid of those little fingers. He used to do it or his little fingers were raised by Blažević, after which I do not know Bakarić or vice versa, and today I have the impression that some other people are doing it. Let's not threaten to shut down the parties. Before Mr. Shakespeare said a wonderful thought, I'm not going to say that he quoted me, but I'm also about to be afraid to live, that I wouldn't want to live in a state without the Constitutional Court, without unions, without parties, without the Parliament, although I agree that for moments this debate was conducted in this House beneath the dignity. But also behind this government, I personally won't tell anyone anything, it's too much of a lie. And when the court finds out that someone is not telling the truth and buying what is being bought, and when the prime minister is leaving, we also lie about the European Union, and when we talk about Croatia's future at this point we do not want to tell people the truth. And the lie is what Mr. Hebrang says that he doesn't usually lie, just sometimes tells the truth, which is much more polite. Unfortunately, it is a constant of this policy. As far as I don't know the atmosphere at this point, in this country paradoxically, and that's what scares me, most of all there's a cartoon from Mr. Shex's office, when Mr. Polancec came to him, when he took out the supposed bag, the phones, afraid that someone in this country, here is Mr. Karamarko, not saying that he's listening. I'm just afraid of these circumstances and I'm afraid of these moments. I also said, when I said earlier, that this government among citizens simply has no trust, so perhaps we should not discuss the trust of someone who does not enjoy trust, but I am also convinced that the sooner this government changes, I am convinced that this people will be better, the later Croatia will start, later on, and the sooner the change of power will be better and the sooner the relevant capital will come to these areas. And that's why I think it's really high time we started talking about elections openly, and I know that both Mr. Shakespeare and Mrs. Kosor can do it simply, but I'm in favour of a slightly different election, for direct elections. Well, then let's see, gentlemen whose mother's black fleece has passed, so whoever enters this House has entered, but I know they will be far more responsible to their citizens, but what this debate shows today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61494	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative and Vice President Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61495	Just one correction. I didn't threaten anyone. I reacted to the repeated claim that the HDZ summit is a criminal organisation. The top of the HDZ is the government and party president, the government's summit and parliament's summit, which is the president of the parliament and vice-presidents of the parliament. That's the top of the HDZ. If it is the top of the HDZ, then it is the government and the presidency of the HDZ Parliament, if it is a criminal organisation, then that criminal organisation should be banned under the Constitution. Criminal organisation and political organisations come under the influence of the Constitution and the law and are banned. If I said that the constitutional provisions were violated through the resignations of Jovanovic and Milanovic, the constitutional values of Article 3 were injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61496	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61497	Just please. That democratic multilateral order is the foundation of a constitution where everyone is obliged to stick to the Constitution and the law. If you otherwise propagate the HDZ ban, then I, with full right, have asked both the question and the responsibilities and the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61498	Thank you, thank you. Mr. Milorad Pupovac on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61499	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is the third term I sit or work in this House and in those three terms I am also in this House, and very often outside of it I hear things that could qualify as contrary to the values of the Constitution that we all swore to. And I've never heard anyone say that because of someone spoken outside this House, and the one who swore in this House to the values of that Constitution, and I've never heard that anyone here as a party member or party would be sanctioned or that it was said to be sanctioned for it. Well, I don't see any reason why no matter how long this debate has lasted, in which so many people have been engaged in different ways because someone has decided to discuss the Constitutional Court's decision, to comment on what might have happened around it, to be the reason for any ban. I would just like to say that the SDSS Club, while present in this House, will neither be able to understand nor support any kind of thinking in that direction. And as far as the decision to terminate the debate is concerned, the debate has to be interrupted somewhere, that's clear. If that's the reason to break up somewhere, fine. But I think it'd be a lot better if we sat down and made a deal where it should be interrupted. I think, even though I haven't been able to sit here all day for other obligations, but I think that point is getting closer. I think the way we start to participate in this debate is coming out of the context of what is the interest of this Parliament and of the people we represent. It is certain that the people are not interested except in some form of media who is married to someone. It is certain that the people are not interested except in some sort of section who and how they treat that fact. I think it's time to realize that we've exhausted a lot of themes and maybe most of the arguments, but we've exhausted ourselves. And I, on behalf of the SDSS Club, can only suggest that if someone wants to take another break and agree on which point we will stop and if there is anything else to say, and what is not said to be said, and that then this debate that certainly had serious goals, probably some of them, and we have reached, but we have probably missed a lot of things together to stop this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61500	Thank you very much, Mr. Pupovac. We're with that. On behalf of the HSS Club. Who's gonna talk? You? Mr. Stanko Grcic on behalf of the HSS Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61501	Thank you, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I cannot boast that I am the third term here in the Croatian Parliament, but what I can boast is that I represent the club HSS which has been working for 106 years in the interests of Croatian citizens and has never failed the national interests of Croatia. Switching and destroying for the very destruction, not helping and building, we think at the HSS Club it's not good. It's not good because there's no out-of-crisis program, nothing real is offered, there's no vision of the future and there's no well-intentioned measures and activities and even less procedures to improve the situation we've been in. The shift is required, but the pride of the Croatian worker and the Croatian peasant can bring back the honest and committed work of us politicians who know how to secure income, which provides for their families the existence and security. It ensures that tomorrow it will not run out of work, give solutions to a series of open issues and ensure the survival of the Croatian people and a clear Croatian state. This government ensures and knows and believes that it can do better and more than it has ever done before. In the HSS, we believe that the people should be served, told the truth and made possible the progress and development of society and raising living standards. Now concrete effects of the fight against corruption, the fight against robbery, against bribes are seen positive effects that our citizens ultimately expect from us both here and from our government. The collapse of the government or the shift is a legitimate right of opposition, but it is necessary to offer good and valid reasons and arguments why to destroy, why to change. To explain them well, explain concrete solutions to current difficulties. Now here and just list some of the current government's failures. But in addition to listing, there are no options to get out of these difficulties and problems, at least not better than these programs that the Government is today implementing and providing. So here is the HSS club we also join the wishes to continue, or to end this debate and the story in a calm tone, and to approach it clearly immediately after the debate and the vote of confidence.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61502	Thank you. Mr. Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61503	And now just before we bring this sad scene to an end about a statement by the vice president of the Parliament who's been sitting here for 20 years, he does. Therefore, Article 6 of the Croatian Constitution says that "the anti-constitutional party is a political party which, through its programme or violent action, is a direction to undermine the free democratic order or threatens the stability of the Republic of Croatia". You read that probably when you were making this statement. So, even in the most critical statements about HDZ, and for that material there's, uh, more than a staff in the brightest Venice skirt, we didn't say anything like that, we just watch what we say, we keep our language understood. We don't tell people to fart, etc. So we still hold some level, and political qualification is a political qualification. But we have to keep an eye on what kind of messages we're sending. And that's why what's said today is scandalous. It doesn't offend us. I have to admit, I didn't expect that. To talk about someone not acknowledging the Constitutional Court's decision is logically non-sensual. The decisions of the Constitutional Court are generally so general and so clear that no individual or political party has anything to recognise. They just exist. We don't have the instruments to implement them, we don't have the instruments to obstruct them, we take them into consideration and comment because we feel free to think, we read the decisions of the Constitutional Court. We don't like them, although we think of some of them all the worst, but we still don't call for riots, we don't call for violence, we don't call for the collapse of the democratic order and for the violation of any of the fundamental values. Let's watch what we're doing. You don't. And that's the difference between us. In that fundamental responsibility, or irresponsibility. This government has long expired, it tortures Croatia to inflict suffering, pain, even your coalition partners said it is in fact economically incomponent but it is preserved and preserved because I don't know how to stop the fight against corruption. Unconvincing. However. The most inconclusive in a series of thesis that has not been commented here today is the thesis or fear that in the event of election, Croatia would lose 5.6 months in negotiations. And it keeps repeating itself. That's what you're saying. And why 5, 6 months? So if after a month of campaigning, you get the election to get on with your work. However, this statement raises awareness or subconscious that you would not win these elections. Why else 5 or 6 months? Well, I guess it's for stalking a new government, isn't it? But that's wrong too, because the end of the negotiations is technically, except for that shipbuilding that was ruined during the HDZ 7 years, and the fight against corruption is probably on its own, I guess the bodies and organs are independent so we can't affect their work. Economically impoverished, with 2 years of economic downturn, falling, with bad trends, with poor prospects, with poor reforms, with chaos that governs the political scene, conflicts in the ruling party, mistrust, indignity, all of this brings Croatia into such an unpleasant and difficult position, and we here today have said everything we have to say, we will no longer. So, after this scandal, these embarrassing statements here you see again, here's good. So there's no point in having the SDP in any way involved in any individual debates, no replicas, no corrections to the wrong allegations, you're going to be balling with yourself however you know and want to be. Everything that was important to say we said here. If you really care about Croatia, Croatian status and pride in the European Union, then don't do what you did today with this support telegram, because this reminds me you already know which support telegrams. And everything Mr. Vidovic spoke of. The myths of truth, the unprincipled coalitions, and then the telegrams of letter support and reaction, the myths of truth, don't do it. That sucks. The other is not convincing. And that's why I apologize for what I said an hour ago in commenting on this memo by the secretary of the European People's Party but not to him and to you, but to my colleagues because I didn't tell you everything. There was still room for a few statements. It is a shameful scandalous matter and it does damage to you too, but the question is can you do more damage than you did to Croatia. We'll never do that. I will always be in Brussels when I perform and speak as in the European Parliament this spring what the Croatian Ambassador listened to and will take care of that minimum of dignity that is at stake with your actions. I'm speaking on behalf of the promoter, I guess I have a few minutes more, right? It's blinking. Okay. So take care of it, too. And when you're invited to dinner, the presidents of governments and parties, and when you're not invited as in July, we didn't make a spectacle of it, we didn't say where the Croatian prime minister is, so you didn't invite her to dinner, there wasn't a single newspaper, because we don't do that kind of small stuff. Besides, we're not in the business of seeing it best because half a year later there was no news or comment on it. People don't do that. It's not working you understand it's a fundamental ferplay. Do not hire European group officials to write letters and telegrams to support you, to insinuate them, speak falsely, it is bad and people in Croatia who want to be their bosses, and their masters do not like to be taught lessons in this way neither by socialists nor by the public, by the liberals or by the green, by anyone. They like to be on their own, which doesn't mean they don't like other people's. And that doesn't mean that everything they don't hate is Croatian. Just like Golda Meir would say good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61504	Thank you. Correction of Mr. Vice President Vladimir Shakespeare's incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61505	These claims by Mr Milanovic are incorrect. Is Mr Milanovic in accordance with the Constitution, with the fundamental principle of one of the highest values of the constitutional order referred to in Article 3. The Constitution guaranteeing a democratic, multilateral system is in accordance with Article 5. The constitution that everyone should stick to the Constitution and rights and respect the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, your insinuation that the top of the HDZ, here is your statement that the HDZ summit, the top of the HDZ is the Government, the Prime Minister, the President of the Parliament, the Vice-President of the Parliament, is ridiculous for you that the HDZ summit is a criminal organisation. It's a democratic debate for you, and you don't see it because you're a blind end to healthy eyes, you don't see it as a threat to constitutional order and fundamental constitutional values. I say and I say it in my own debate, which would be if HDZ said it was. Just one more sentence, please. The HDZ said the SDP is the top of the SDP that it is a political organisation. That's not it, is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61506	Thank you. Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61507	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Representatives and Representatives. At the end of this hard day, I want to thank everyone for the debate, of course I want to say right away I didn't want to report back, because I felt that it was also inappropriate to engage in a debate over a statement sent by the European People's Party, but here's what's true in the name of the party that I'm headed for. No one, I go first, and then none of us ask for a European crack reaction or support. This is something that is common, it is something that happened, we are of course grateful for the support of our political family and it was really hard to listen to the meals that came at the expense of the members of the European People's Party, at the expense of the officials of that party, it was really embarrassing for me with my colleagues, and of course I will, in every way at the next session of the IPP and apologize, so it is a meeting that Mr Barroso and Mr Van Rompuy and here was the last time Mr Fiona, next time I hear that Mr Sarkozy, Mr Berlusconi, the Hungarian Prime Minister, who I was sitting at last at the meeting, Slovak Prime Minister, etc., and so on, that I do not list all of them, because the way the members of the European People's Party today are offended here in the Croatian Parliament are really causing discomfort, redness, but I believe that they will understand very well. Ladies and gentlemen, I won't be having any more discussions, there were really a lot of difficult and inappropriate words that in the Croatian Parliament, in the Croatian Parliament should not even be said, let alone in such a way that ladies and gentlemen think. If any of the MPs and MPs have said a word too much, here I am, on behalf of all of us, expressing my regret and saying that, of course, as always, we will try to keep the level of debate in Parliament as worthy of Croatian representatives and representatives, those of us who represent the Croatian people, all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But never before have we heard a word of regret from the SDP leaders, never before, and this may be a good opportunity to say regrets about the words being spoken daily but spoken not only today but also yesterday, two, five, seven, ten years ago, etc., all the way to the independence of the Republic of Croatia, that HDZ is under investigation, that HDZ is a party of dangerous intentions, that HDZ is a criminal organisation, and you are now calling it Mr Milanovic and you are in favour of parliamentary democracy, you dare to do so today and now at this moment tell the party leading this government and who is leading the state and who, of course, won the parliamentary elections. Mrs Pusic mentioned that this debate had to be conducted because the parliamentary majority is questionable. No, she is not questionable and it will be seen in a moment, and it will be the ladies and gentlemen another defeat of those who have proposed a vote of no confidence to this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61508	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61509	Thank you very much. Be patient for another minute, since you've been so patient all day. I am correcting Mrs. Kosor's incorrect claim that this is the defeat of those who have sent a vote of mistrust to her in Parliament. Mrs. Kosor, this is the defeat of those who do not recognize what Croatian citizens want, and these are early parliamentary elections, and that is you, Mrs. Kosor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61510	Mr Milanovic, do you want to take this? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61511	I apologize to Goldi Meir, it was one great woman who resigned after the Jom of the Cypriot War. She shouldn't have resigned, but she resigned. So, once again, for the sake of clarity, what happened to the European People's Party that you will mourn when you come to Brussels and you will apologize, on my behalf you do not have to apologize, you did not get the support of the European People's Party, but one member of that party, and that party has large parties and large statesmen in its membership. But the one who wrote that letter didn't. And I know how these letters are written and I know that their writings are not called upon by the urgent consultations of the European Prime Ministers and not even by the lower level. So that's where you pulled someone's sleeve and it's not on you. So, what this gentleman wrote in this letter. I have not quoted this so far, some people have told me that they were not clear, it was not a completely clear context, so I will now quote what is and what is the matter with the European People's Party when it comes to Croatia and what kind of support it gives the HDZ Secretary of State to the party, so the clerk, there is an official." As regards today's statement in the Croatian Parliament of the president of the SDP on the support received by the prime minister in Brussels by the European People's Party, its President Martinez and I Lopez personally give full assistance and support to the Croatian people," the Croatian peoples God appeared, the epiphany, "and the Government of Jadranka Kosor as a party that has a majority in all European institutions, the European People's Party", which they leave behind one of the last conservatives of the British who left it, "will not be in the framework of extended parties" long ago but recently when Cameron became prime minister, he promised and did so, it was recently. And you don't know that. "EPP will also... Well no one but British conservatives, it's one marginal country. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] "The EPP will also continue to support Croatia and the prime minister in the framework of extended meetings to successfully complete accession negotiations. It is unnecessary to say that Prime Minister Kosor will soon be the first prime minister to sit in the European Council representing Croatia as a full member of the Union." Listen, this is a nice support, but a little rude that no one will ever agree to you in decent groups. So, it's already incurring the internal affairs of a member state which you've already allowed this gentleman once... Give him a heads-up, Mr. President. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So that's what Lopez already let himself do. But then it goes on. And here in my place can be tomorrow, Jadranka Kosor or someone else from HDZ if the role changes and if played like this. So it says again in the EPP Secretary-General's statement "about the SDP leader's statements", the leader now, but it's written "I'd like to point out", and now you colleagues and colleagues assess how insulting this is, imagine yourself in that situation whether it's true or not. "that it often participates in low-level meetings in Brussels that do not affect the EU decision-making process. Mr Petrovic, however, is politically irrelevant in Brussels," the end of the quote. So, what I said I don't participate often, I participate rarely, but on a high level and even when there's no Mrs. Kosor. ... Well, look, I'll leave something else for the closing speech. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] You see, this is a Croatian disgrace, this is what you asked there, and don't do it. That's humiliating. ... All right, all right. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] And I don't really know what I'm saying anymore. So, I'll talk to you later.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61512	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and advocates, do the representatives of the registered clubs give up the debate or will they continue the debate? So no one's applying for a hearing, so I'm closing the argument. The vote. The debate is closed, before voting one note. In order for the parliament to vote non-confidential, the Prime Minister needs a half-dominated majority of MPs. So, 77 MPs to vote non-confidential. I am voting on proposal 58 MPs to show no confidence to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Jadranka Kosor. Those who are in favour of distrust, the Prime Ministers are voting in favour of the proposal, therefore for the proposal. Those who oppose the launch of the government's trust issues vote against it. Please turn yourself in and vote on a proposal for mistrust. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61513	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I don't have a key on me, I'd like to ask you to count my voice by raising your hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-27-0.u61514	It'll be included. Please engage to control the quorum. Then we'll raise our hands and we'll count nicely. Let's plug in, please let's see the quorum, and we'll record it. Quarum, please engage and make sure you're engaged. 138 MPs can be decided. I am voting on the proposal for a non-confidential statement tabled by 58 MPs and MPs to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Jadranka Kosor note, those who are to show confidence will vote in favour, and those who are against will vote against. Or perhaps there are some who would not vote, so they will be restrained. Please, let's get involved and vote. So we're voting for proposal 58 MPs. The result? In favour of distrusting Mrs. Jadranki Kosor, 61 MPs voted. One MP was abstentioned, and 79 MPs were against it, so I find that the proposal for distrust was rejected by the Prime Minister and that the Prime Minister, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, continues to have the support of the Croatian Parliament. ... Then 62, because Mr. Heffer had to raise his hand. [[Applause.]] Thank you very much. I wish you a pleasant holiday, and tomorrow we will continue at 10:30 with the agenda point that we have started earlier the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. And tomorrow at 10:30.
