ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58857	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. I hope you've recovered a little bit and rested. We move to further work on the announced agenda point - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on the Legal Position of the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty, national representatives and international staff, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 593 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr. Zeljko Gorsic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58858	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives. After a series of agreements that we have confirmed in the Croatian Parliament in the past and during this year, which constitute a legal gain of NATO before us today, there is another international agreement on the legal position of the North Atlantic Treaty, national representatives and international staff. In order for the Republic of Croatia to become a party to this agreement which is of paramount importance for both NATO and the Member States of Croatia as a new NATO member, there is no need for prior approval of the North Atlantic Council. The Republic of Croatia has agreed to be bound by the agreement itself, followed by the laying of a ratification document. On the basis of the signing authority established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the decision to initiate the procedure, the agreement was signed by Mrs Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, the US Ambassador of the Republic of Croatia. In the expectation that the Republic of Croatia would become party to the agreement and that the agreement would formally enter into force for us, the North Atlantic Council had accepted the provisional application of the Agreement on the Republic of Croatia since 9 April 2009. The agreement regulates the legal position of persons, privileges, immunities, and NATO reliefs, national representatives and international staff, the issue of property status, means of work and other important issues for NATO's action. The agreement establishes the necessary legal framework for facilitating the functioning of NATO and the smooth performance of the official tasks and duties of national representatives and international staff of the organisation. The Agreement shall not apply to any military command established under the North Atlantic Treaty or to any other military bodies unless otherwise decided by the Council. The organisation and the Member States will cooperate at any time to facilitate the functioning of the judiciary, ensure compliance with the rules governing police work and prevent cases of abuse of immunity and privileges laid down in this Agreement. If a Member State considers that there has been an abuse of immunity or privileges granted by this Agreement, consultations will be held between that State and the organisation or between the countries concerned to determine whether any abuse has occurred and, if it is, it will ensure that no re-emergence occurs. The organisation has legal personality, it has the ability to conclude contracts, acquire and dispose of movable and immovable assets, and to initiate legal procedures. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The premises of the organisation are non-injurious, its assets and assets, regardless of where they are located and in whose possession they enjoy immunity from search, requisition, confiscation, extradition or any other form of interference. Each person designated by a Member State as his main, permanent representative in the organisation in the territory of another Member State and those members and its official staff resident in that territory shall enjoy the immunities and privileges granted to diplomatic representatives and their official staff of the corresponding rank. Any representative of a Member State in a council or in one of its auxiliary bodies, while located in another Member State's territory, shall enjoy immunity from arrest or detention, the same as that granted to diplomatic staff of the relevant rank, immunity from legal proceedings in respect of spoken or written words and deeds which it has committed in its official capacity and the non-violence of all documents and documents. Privileges and immunities shall not be granted to representatives of Member States and their staff for their personal benefit, but to ensure independence in the performance of their tasks in relation to the North Atlantic Treaty. The implementation of this law, which we are confirming today, is within the scope of the Ministry of Defense. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to give confirmation to this proposed law confirming this agreement so that its provisions within the meaning of our Constitution become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58859	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58860	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here are a few words on the proposal for this law regarding the Confirmation of the Agreement on the Legal Position of the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty, national representatives and international staff. As said after becoming a full NATO member, on April 1st 2009, the Republic of Croatia is expected to become a party to a number of international agreements that form the legal gain of the NATO alliance. On the basis of the power to sign which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has established by a decision to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of an agreement on the legal position of the organisation, its national representatives and international staff. On 23 July 2009, the agreement was signed by the US Ambassador of Croatia to the United States of America, Mrs. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. In view of the nature of the process of confirming international contracts and formally expressing its willingness to be bound by an already signed international contract, as well as the fact that the text of the international contract cannot be changed or supplemented at this stage of the procedure, this proposal for a law is proposed to be discussed and adopted by an urgent procedure, uniting first and second readings. For this reason, the HDZ Club will give full support to the bill. However, in order to gain a certain sense of what these issues are regulated by this law is very useful and it may well be highlighted certain articles of this law because they may be interesting, I would say even attractive in a certain way. First, Article 4. The organisation has legal personality, it has the ability to conclude contracts, acquire and dispose of movable and immovable assets and to initiate legal procedures. Furthermore, Article 5 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is replaced by the following: The organisation, its assets and assets, regardless of where they are located and in whose possession they enjoy immunity from any legal procedure. Organisational premises are non-injurious. The archives of the organisation and all documents belonging to or owned by the organisation shall be non-injurious regardless of where they are located. Article 8 and Article 9 of this proposal may give rise to certain attention and may be useful for the Croatian academic and Croatian scientific community. For what? Article 9, I quote, "without being limited to financial supervision, regulations or moratories of any kind of organisation," so NATO, "can own the currency of any kind or manage accounts in any currency." Furthermore, b) the organisation may freely transfer its resources from one country to another or within any country. Article 9 is, I would say, particularly interesting and I think that in legal practice in the Republic of Croatia it will benefit. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the NATO, its assets, revenues and other assets are exempt from all direct taxes. Furthermore, NATO, its resources are exempt from all customs duties and quantitative restrictions on imports and exports in respect of items imported or exported by the organisation. Furthermore, the organisation and its resources are exempt from all customs duties and quantitative restrictions on imports and exports of their editions. What this could mean in practice for an important NATO programme, NATO's Science for Peace, means NATO's scientific research programme, which is funded by NATO, which is related to research and development activities that can contribute and contribute to strengthening the security of not only NATO but the entire international community through certain projects that NATO recognises interesting and which are mainly obtained by excellent candidates, excellent institutions and I hope that such institutions have in the Republic of Croatia. Based on the projects obtained, the funds received, these projects can be freed from customs duties, meaning imports of equipment, can be released from VAT and this is very important. There is already a series of approved NATO scientific programmes at the moment, which unfortunately are in a standstill because no specific allocations and funds for VAT were foreseen in the cost of these projects. I hope that after the adoption of this bill, its ratifications in the Assembly will be activated and indirectly through this law and through some NATO scientific programmes can be provided to certain academic and scientific institutions, above all those with high-quality excellent projects can lead and thus improve their work without customs duties and without VAT exemption. This is very important and I hope that, in our legal and financial practice, in accordance with the ratification of this law, this will be confirmed and that this will be one, I would say, a very useful contribution to such laws and such legislation as it aims to promote all those activities in the Member States that can contribute to their activities, their projects, to their knowledge by strengthening international peace, security and prosperity. I think she certainly deserves special attention. However, we are adopting laws, implementing these laws in life will also require certain reactions and careful and precise interpretation of all relevant ministries and the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Finance. Unfortunately, we do not have a representative of the Ministry of Finance here today, but I do know that even some NATO donations aimed at the Ministry of Defence required payment of VAT according to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. I hope that's not going to happen in the future. And that more direct, I would say, more direct, more quality and efficient between the member state of the Republic of Croatia and NATO in accordance with these laws, I would say my full meaning. Some other articles of this law also deserve short attention. I can be important to the Home Office. Article 13, any representative of a Member State in the Council or any of its auxiliary bodies shall have immunity from arrest or detention, immunity from legal proceedings, non-violence of all files and documents, the right to use the code, exceptions to it, immunity and relief, the right to introduce furniture, cars and so on without customs duty, etc. Therefore, this law also illustrates how in some ways our internal legislation is changing through all these processes of Euro-Atlantic integration. In line with everything said, the HDZ club will certainly support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58861	Thank you. It's Mr. Damir Cain's turn on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58862	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State, Mr. Representatives. I would say that this law, regardless of what it is about confirming the Agreement on the Legal Position of the North Atlantic Treaty, came at the right time. I'm saying that in the context of this accident that happened, Croatian moments and the fact that NATO's mission is freely said lost mission. It is clear that this law confirming this agreement between Croatia and the North Atlantic Treaty or NATO is absolutely not controversial. Of course that agreement should be accepted. It is clear that Croatia cannot be an exception and that it must follow one logic of other countries, i.e. NATO members. In fact, NATO officials in the Republic of Croatia, according to the provisions of this law, are given the status de facto enjoyed by diplomats and I think it's absolutely fine. What may be necessary to quote it is this Article 13 which states that any representative of a Member State in the Council or in any of its auxiliary bodies not subject to those provisions, means that he enjoys the following privileges or immunities – immunity from arrest or detention equal to that granted to the diplomatic staff of the corresponding rank, - immunity from legal proceedings regarding spoken written words, - inviolability of all files and documents, right to use the code, - then exemption from him, his spouse, - from the restriction of immigration, - the registration of foreigners, - military obligations of the same relief in terms of restrictions on currency or its replacement, - immunity and relief as regards his personal luggage, - the right to introduce his furniture and things when he first arrived for the purpose of taking over his service, etc. etc. Not to quote all these provisions of this law now. However, on the other hand, what is far more important to the Croatian public is actually the state I would say to our Armed Forces. I don't blame anyone. We keep calling for cost cuts. That's what it looks like. However, more and more depends on money today, that it may be known that this is not a topic but just to say, perhaps it wasn't so much an account of what status the generals will enjoy. I think it would be more for technique. I mean resorts, etc., that some of that system didn't get dirty rich. Some in 10 years came out of the system heavy and more than 1 billion kuna. The same would be more for technique, etc., if we let the military industry work, it would be better if over 80 individual accounts hadn't been emptied in Austria, etc. It would be better, etc. etc. I'm not calling anyone, Mr. Djitsyu, because of the fall of those two moments. I know the situation is such that we can't give on a plane 60 or I don't know how many million euros. But the situation is at least when it comes to technique over, almost at the edge of endurance. On the other hand, what bothered me after all this happened that some state officials, it was okay to visit pilots immediately. But I think she should've visited that injured woman before. Because if anything else pilots normally do it in their business some risks take on themselves, and what to say to someone who digs potatoes so what happened to her happens to that woman. Another is Afghanistan in just one sentence. Let's pull these guys home, cut that number down. We can't finance it anymore. They deserve the best of equipment, but it simply became too much of a burden I would say about the Croatian state. All in all, Croatia today is not threatened especially by neighbours. I even dare say that today Croatia would have helped its neighbours, some others but everything normal has to move when we talk about opportunities in the military within the framework of the 4.8 billion kuna that our military budget is worth, and with these money, it's hard to do something about it. Once again I will say that some of our generals are not heavy and over a billion kunas, at least one of them is, perhaps we could get an answer as to how they got that money. And if we could get their unearned money, maybe we could modernise some of the Armed Forces. All in all about this Law on Confirmation of the Agreement is clear that it should be accepted, that it is logical, normal, expected and that much we will vote for.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58863	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58864	President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the proposings, gentlemen of the State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The agreement on the legal position of the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty of National Representatives and International Staff shall regulate the legal position, privileges, immunity and relief of NATO, national representatives and international staff. The Agreement shall not apply to which military command established under the North Atlantic Treaty, nor to any other military bodies unless otherwise decided by the Council. This is an agreement that regulates the legal position of persons, property, means of work and other important issues for NATO's action as a necessary legal framework to facilitate NATO's action, as well as the smooth performance of official tasks and the duties of national representatives and international staff of the organisation. As the applicant pointed out in the opening statement of this proposal, the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty was its external policy, security priority, which was achieved with the accession of the North Atlantic Treaty. After becoming a full NATO member on 1 April 2009, the Republic of Croatia is expected to become a party to a number of international agreements that constitute a legal gain of NATO, and related to which internal legal procedures need to be implemented in the coming period. In order to become a party to an agreement on the legal position of the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty of National Representatives and International Staff, which is of paramount importance for both NATO and Member States. In the Republic of Croatia as a new NATO member state, and it is not necessary for the prior approval of the North Atlantic Council, such as in relation to other international agreements, which form part of the legal gain of NATO, but the Republic of Croatia as a new NATO member may express its consent, be bound by the signing, followed by the laying of a ratification document. It is also noted that given the importance of the legal position agreement... North Atlantic contract... [[You don't understand.]] representatives and international staff, the North Atlantic Council, expecting the Republic of Croatia as a new NATO member state to become party to the agreement and to formally enter into force the Agreement for the Republic of Croatia. [[You don't understand.]] On the basis of the signing authority established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the decision to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of the agreement, on the legal position of the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty of National Representatives and International Staff, the Agreement was signed by Mrs Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, the Ambassador of the Republic of Croatia to the United States of America, on 23 July 2009. This law confirms an agreement on the legal position of the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty, national representatives and international staff in order to ensure its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia as a full NATO member by confirming the previous, but also by proving this agreement that it is becoming an important partner in the international plan. In this way, the same rules apply formally to the organisation of the North Atlantic Alliance, national representatives and international staff, and on matters concerning the legal position and privileges of immunity and other reliefs. From all this club, the club of representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58865	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58866	Mr. President of the Parliament, gentlemen of the State Secretary. Here's also a few words about this final law proposal. As my colleagues have already said it is a technical law and of course we will also vote for it on behalf of the SDP, we will give it full support. A few words about him, a few words, I will refer to what my colleague Cain said in his final presentation. This law is therefore confirmed by the Agreement on the legal position of the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty, national representatives and international staff, in order to ensure that its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The agreement on the legal position of the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty, national representatives and international staff shall be governed by the legal position, privileges, immunity, NATO relief, national representatives and international staff. The Agreement shall not apply to any military command which is very important to say and emphasize, established on the basis of the North Atlantic Treaty, or to any other military bodies unless otherwise decided by the Council. This agreement that regulates the legal position of persons, assets, assets... and other important issues for NATO's action are the necessary legal framework to facilitate NATO's action, as well as the smooth handling of official tasks and the duties of national representatives, international staff of the organisation. [[You don't understand.]] Since the Republic of Croatia has become a NATO member, it is so important that we also accept this bill and support that it can also be applied and functioning. And that's the most important and important thing I want to say about the very proposal for a final law. A few words about what he was talking about, what fellow Caine was talking about. And it is important for me that all the parliamentary representatives know that in the last year, the Ministry of Defence has lost about one billion kuna, that the budget has been cut to 1.4% of the total budget of the Republic of Croatia, and that this is really a red lamp for the functioning of the Ministry of Defence. I think we all have to take a very firm stand here, which is that in the national budget, there's not a single lip to the Ministry of Defense, because there's 18 thousand and a few people there, these are people who work daily, train, get training, go on missions, live and eat, and this big organization. It's not a highway, highway, or some kind of, part of a sand bridge, so we're going to move these activities to the next or the next national year, given when we have a crisis of funds. I think we must find together this one, one base and joint support and jointly demand that no kuna from the future budget can be taken away from the Ministry of Defence. A few things only when it comes to the Department of Defense. There they are, here are the employees here at the Department of Defense... About a billion kuna, an endangered long-term development plan of the Croatian Army, of course, has come to question all this modernization, the equipment that has been well started over the past few years, such as fighting vehicles equipment, the equipment of a new assault rifle, the thinking of a new aircraft, and the support and equipment of the Croatian Navy, and it has now stopped. [[You don't understand.]] For example. Unlike the Ministry of Interior, where the Ministry of Interior has invested about 100 million kunas in patrol ships in the last year, we can't build a single coastal patrol ship because we don't have the resources. The MUP only bought motor vehicles worth about 80 or 70 million kuna. It can't be a case or it can happen at the Department of Defense. In the Department of Defense, we have about 2,000 400... Vehicles, for 2010, the Ministry of Defence approved about 40,000 kunas for its maintenance. [[You don't understand.]] It's just a ridiculous number and there's a financial situation in the Department of Defense and I say something has to change and we have to do something to make those people out there who work, function, especially this professional part of the military have the means, to have the ability to work, act because these people have international commitments, we have to maintain obligations in Afghanistan, we have to be on... High-level, we have UN missions, maybe something else is waiting for us tomorrow, we need to prepare and equip in a way that we can operate NATO standards. [[You don't understand.]] Now that's the problem. I'm stressing this is the problem now, it's not the topic now, we're going to have an annual report or a semi-annual report on the state of the Armed Forces, but I'm warning the MPs we're these people who vote for the budget, we're these people who vote for the departure of Croatian soldiers on the mission, and we're also in this chain of command responsibilities, and if anything happens, anytime for a soldier that we haven't said loud enough, that we haven't asked loud enough to do something, we're also responsible for what happened, and even for these two MiGs that have fallen recently, which is of course a major accident for the Ministry of Defense and of course we regret that it all happened together. We're going to support this bill, we're not going to open up too much here about the situation in the military, we're going to have a chance... Now probably aviation on Thursday, but I can say for sure that the red light is on and it is a red warning lamp and that, that the Ministry of Defence is absolutely in one difficult financial situation, and that it is also saying that they have not yet signed the procurement plan, and that you need to resolve the procurement plan which is a key document for the purchase and equipment of the Croatian Army which the Chief Staff has requested and sent the document that allows the Croatian Army to be equipped at that tactical level as early as 12 months ago. [[You don't understand.]] The Ministry didn't sign it, it has to be done and done as soon as possible. Because I keep complaining from the field that people's breakfast has been lifted, that dinner's been lifted, that people don't have enough uniforms. I think that, if there is to be, the defence minister must have a reflex, the defence minister must be tighter and simply say that with these means he cannot maintain such a system as he is and see what he is and how he goes on. Here's what I'm saying. We support this bill. We hope to have a proper debate about the state of the military force of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58867	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58868	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, gentlemen of the Ministry. Here, seemingly or at first sight, it would be said that in fact about this matter, this proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on the Legal Position of the North Atlantic Treaty, then national representatives and international staff with already and final proposal of the law, we have nothing to say, because it is, in fact, within our approach to the NATO Pact and each Member State has acted on the basis of such legislative proposals as will be done by the Republic of Croatia and I am convinced that all MPs will support them as will be supported by the HDSSB. Here, a little principle is already being drawn up by Mr. Kajin and Mr. Kotromanovic on the situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which I would say in a very good way by a large number and materiality in many missions, both NATO and the UN, at various locations in the world. From Afghanistan and the Golan High School. It is true that the Republic of Croatia is also setting aside large funds for these missions. It is also true that we would like all together to see the situation in, clearly transparent state, in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, and it is a question of the limitations of the technique and of all other elements that burden therefore the readiness of the Croatian Army, i.e. the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. General Kotromanović spoke about a procurement plan that should also be here because we are all actually responsible and parliamentary representatives like you in the ministry since such proposals are coming to the assembly benches, and the Parliament has also accepted the sending of our troops to Afghanistan, to the Golan highlands and to other locations around the world. Speaking of which, then clearly, there are saving places, and in terms of improving the situation in the Armed Forces, technical equipment and everything else. There is also in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Here in an hour, two of us are going to have a debate about the Peace Fund, which continues to be held year after year, we have an item on non-retired pensions. For example. For 2008 non-retirement pensions the state of Croatia or the Mirovinski Fund paid more than 100 million kuna. What could we buy for our army for 100 million kuna? And there are other examples of savings, when government planes fly to Osijek or Vukovar, and a column of empty cars also goes to Osijek or Vukovar, and there are saving places. From the fuel and from the driver's diaries, and from the tires, and from the rest. There is room for savings and for help to our armed forces as long as you want. That's all you have to say out loud and clear. And our pride, our army, which is the winner of the Homeland War, did not deserve to, as I say, clothe and airplanes and everything else, all the other technique needed by the Croatian military, regardless of what the peacetime situation is, no matter what the danger is at the moment, no matter how much NATO pact we are. So when we talk about the very proposal for this law, then Mr. Cain quoted that article 13, he was not unhappy, but it seems to me that a few years ago when we were not a NATO member, the then President Mesic was some things in that sense to say and made it clear and loud against it. Today when we are a member of the NATO Pact, then there is really no need for this Article 13 and the items that are in it, and this is about immunity from arrests, detentions, etc., natural persons from the North Atlantic Treaty organisation. I am particularly pleased with article 3 of this bill, which says that NATO organisations and Member States will cooperate at any time to facilitate the functioning of the judiciary, ensure compliance with the rules governing police work and prevent cases of abuse of immunity and privileges set out in this Agreement. If a Member State considers that immunities or privileges under this Agreement have been misused under this Agreement, consultations will be held between that State and the organisation or between the countries concerned to determine whether any abuse has occurred and, if so, it will ensure that cases do not happen again. In spite of the above or any other provisions of this Agreement, Member States which consider that a person has misused his or her privilege of residence or any other privilege or immunity granted under this Agreement may request that person to leave its territory. So that's what actually ensures that I tell the Republic of Croatia from the abuse of those according to the benefits set out in Article 13 and I don't think that there's really any reason why the HDSB won't accept this kind of agreement. I think of something else, yes, when I was talking about savings and the possibility of part of the funds, so with some rebalancing, or now here's a new budget of transfer or redistribution to the Ministry of Defense, then I must say that for the mounted and politically motivated process of Branimir Glavas, the persecution of his and the trial was spent over 100 million kuna. Well, it wouldn't be bad if that 100 million kuna instead of political persecution had been redistributed to the Ministry of Defense and to its benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58869	Thank you. We move to an individual debate, Mr. Representative Berislav Rončević is on his way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58870	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Although Mr. Secretary of State Gorsic's opening statements on behalf of the Clubs have said a lot about this Bill proposal, please allow my individual contribution to this debate. When Croatia became a full member of NATO after a successful process in 2009 it was expected that the focus of the Croatian public focused on the work of Croatian Armed Forces soldiers and year after year thanks to their quality action in international peace missions, so in a NATO-led peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan as the most complex, it is natural that the public's focus is more focused on this. But NATO is an organisation, NATO is not only troops and soldiers on the ground, NATO is also a legal framework, NATO is also the work of senior representatives and NATO personnel. In order for Croatia as a member state and its representatives to act within the framework of this organisation, it is normal that this Agreement and today's debate and adoption in the Assembly should be signed as part of the internal legal order. The agreement establishes the necessary legal framework for facilitating NATO's action and the smooth performance of official tasks and the duties of national representatives and international staff and organisations. As already said, this agreement does not apply to military command, there are other agreements for them that have already joined NATO organisations. The agreement regulates the legal position of persons, property, means of work and other important issues for NATO's action and constitutes the necessary framework for facilitating NATO's action and for the smooth implementation of official tasks. In accordance with the Agreement, organisations and Member States shall cooperate at any time to facilitate the functioning of the judiciary, ensure compliance with the rules governing police work and prevent cases of abuse of immunities and privileges laid down in this Agreement. Of course, as a living body, the organisation itself may have certain persuasive situations, and under this Agreement whether a Member State considers that there has been an abuse of immunity or privileges granted by the agreement, consultations between that State and the organisation or between the countries concerned will be held, in order to determine whether there has been any abuse and, if so, to ensure that cases do not happen again. The organisation has legal personality under the agreement, it has the ability to enter into contracts, acquire and dispose of movable and immovable assets, and to initiate certain legal procedures. The organisation, asset and asset measure, regardless of where they are located and in whose possession they enjoy immunity from any legal procedure unless, in a particular case, the chair of the alternate members of the Council, on behalf of the organisation, hereby authorises the withdrawal of this immunity. The debate several times mentioned reliefs or exemptions from taxation. This Agreement, when the Parliament establishes it becomes part of the internal legal order, of course the Law does not mean life on the ground, so it should, of course, also be with other laws, and the operational life programme on the ground stemming from other laws, and from this existing Law introduces that life on the ground normally takes place according to this to comply with the relevant programmes in order to avoid possible situations so that Croatia does not implement the provisions of this law. Each room, of course the Law says, the proposal of the Agreement speaks of the premises of the organization they are according to the agreement of non-injurious, property of the Organization, the means no matter where they are located, enjoy... search, requisition, confiscation, extradition or any other form of interference or any other state intervention. Of course, privileges and immunities are not granted to representatives of Member States and their staff for their personal benefit, but to protect their independence in the performance of their tasks in relation to the North Atlantic Treaty. Therefore, the Member State shall not only have the right but also the duty to waive the immunity of its representatives and members of their staff in any event where, in its opinion, immunity would interfere with the exercise of justice and where it can be denied without harming the purpose for which it has been granted. Since this Law confirms the Agreement that builds on Croatia's active participation in the organization of the North Atlantic Treaty, I will personally support the proposal for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58871	Thank you. Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58872	My colleagues and colleagues. I will be involved in this debate because this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on the Legal Position of Organisations of the North Atlantic Treaty, national representatives and international staff, because the fact that we have become a full member of the NATO Alliance clearly indicates that now the Republic of Croatia is expected to accept and adopt a number of international agreements that form the legal gain of NATO. By confirming this Treaty, the Republic of Croatia will meet the internal legal requirements for the application of this to NATO's very important legal framework. On the importance of the Agreement on the Legal Position of the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty, national representatives and international staff, it best states that the North Atlantic Council has accepted the provisional application of the Agreement on the Republic of Croatia since 9 April 2009, so only after 8 days when the Republic of Croatia was admitted to full NATO membership. What exactly is being governed by this Agreement? The legal position of privilege, immunity, relief of national representatives and international staff shall be regulated. The agreement also regulates the legal position of persons, property, means of work and other important issues for NATO's action in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The agreement itself consists of several parts. In the second part, the legal position of the organisation, its assets and assets, regardless of where they are located and in whose possession they are, shall be governed by immunity from search, confiscation, extradition or any other form of interference. In the third part, it is arranged that each Member State representative in the Council while located in the territory of another State, to carry out its tasks, shall enjoy the privileges of immunity. For example, immunity from arrest or detention, equal to that granted to diplomatic staff, immunity from legal proceedings for spoken words and acts which are committed in their official capacity, non-violability of the file and documents, the right to import furniture or vehicle and the same exports without customs duty, etc., etc. Article 15 also regulates that privileges and immunities are not granted to representatives of Member States and their staff for their personal benefit, but to ensure independence in the performance of their tasks. Therefore, the Member State shall not only have the right but also the duty to waive the immunity of its representatives and members of their staff if, in their opinion, immunity interferes with the exercise of justice and when it can be denied without harming the purpose for which it has been approved. In Part 4, the benefits and immunities for international staff and experts working for the organisation are similar to those for the representatives of the Member States. And the final provisions stipulate how and when the agreement enters into force as well as when any State may cancel this agreement. So this agreement is the same as the one that was in 1951, it cannot be changed and I think it should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58873	Thank you. Finally, State Secretary Mr Zeljko Gorsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58874	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President. Here I would like to thank everyone who supports this law and everyone who took part in this debate. I would say this law will contribute to the improvement of the legal position of NATO, national representatives and international staff in relation to the Republic of Croatia as a member of NATO. The issues needed in the implementation of certain areas, as highlighted in the debate, so also taxes and customs, VAT, on scientific projects, I hope, but the Ministry of Finance will surely have to give its final word. I would just like to say that, with regard to the debate of MPs who spoke about the state of the Armed Forces, MORH is for the time being certainly carrying out its tasks under its financial means, it is safe to ensure that every Croatian military in the country, abroad in missions is high-quality and trained, and equipped for its tasks. I would also like to emphasise, therefore, that the MORH has a purchasing plan and it is always brought after the vote of the Republic of Croatia's budget and thus obtains the necessary equipment to equip our Armed Forces. So it wouldn't be a mistake if we didn't have a procurement plan. He's been brought here every year and we've got him this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58875	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, we will proceed with the session. We'll vote on the debated agenda points. Please engage to check the quorum. Whoever forgot to check for red on some sign. Thank you. 95, so we can decide on the points of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on the Legal Position of the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty, national representatives and international staff, was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 593. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law confirming the Agreement on the Legal Position of the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty, national representatives and international staff. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposed final bill. The result? I find that by the majority of the 104 votes, two abstentions and nothing against, the final bill was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58878	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. There's four in front of you. Annual report by the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency. As you know, our two fundamental objectives are to preserve the stability of the financial system and to monitor the legality of the work of surveillance entities. Despite the unfavourable economic global developments during 2009, there were no major instability or financial assets and non-bank sector infrastructures were preserved. In this regard, I would like to point out that the assets of the non-bank sector at the end of 2009 were 115 billion kuna, which is around 23% of the total assets of the financial sector and 35% of GDP, respectively. Compared to 2008, the total assets of the non-bank sector increased by around 11%. You could see details of the work of certain segments of the non-bank sector in the report. I'll just mention some key things for certain segments. The capital market marked the application of the Capital Market Act, there was a recovery of the net assets of investment funds by about 30% compared to 2008, but only three funds with assets of more than one billion kuna, the average assets of the Investment Fund are only 120 million kuna. As far as the Peace Fund's assets are concerned, as compared to 2008, they also increased about 30%, 57% of these assets are government bonds. A million-and-a-half are members of the Peace Fund, with about a million and 250 thousand active members who regularly pay contributions. As for the part of insurance, the gross premium charged is still below 3% of GDP, almost 3 times lower than the countries of the narrow part of the European Union, and 37% of the charged premiums relate to mandatory auto responsibility insurance. As far as leasing industry is concerned, there have been major shifts due to portfolio structure. The relatively largest loss of industry is shown, and because of the fact that 30% of the assets are made up of only one company that had a value correction of about 800 million kuna. As for the invoice, there was a minor recovery, but there was also a large concentration of property in only one company, 60% of the property has one company. As a result of the infringement of the legal provisions, the agencies submitted 49 infringements and 5 criminal charges during 2009. Overall, from 2006 to 2009, the agency submitted 368 criminal and 34 criminal charges. During the last period and also in 2009 there was a trend in failing to meet the takeover bids so that we currently have 14 offers that have not been published. I would also like to highlight the fact that we actively participated in the closing process of Chapter 9-Financing services closed at the 11th month of last year. I would also like to particularly highlight our activity in solving the performances of financial services users that were over a hundred during last year. In 2009, we received 42 million kuna, and the expenditure was 32, so we achieved a surplus of revenue over expenditure, and in 52 weeks we held 59 sessions. Currently, HANFA employs 136 people, which is 11 people more than the year before, and for the first 6 months of this year, the assets of the non-banking sector also have a slight increase of 118 billion kuna, 3% compared to the end of 2009. In view of all the facts mentioned in the report and the details that are fully explained in our report and given the state of stability of surveillance entities and our activities, I propose that this report be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58879	Thank you. Does the government want a representative? No, I don't. The committee's reporters? Yes, go ahead. Mr. Goran Maric, chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58880	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The esteemed president of the HANFA administration with a co-worker, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the annual report of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency for 2009 at its 59th session on 12 July 2010. In the opening statement, we heard this data which we have heard and most extensively are shown that there was an increase in the net assets of open investment funds 21%, that there was an increase in the net assets of the mandatory pension funds 29.5%, that the insurance market recorded a slight decline, charged gross premiums of 2.8%, and that the leasing market also recorded a decline in the value of newly concluded contracts, and that was as low as 47%, and thus I dropped the total income of leasing companies by 4.3%. The report shows that the supervision and supervisory supervision carried out by HANFA on the capital market resulted in open 512 cases, of which 22 administrative and 490 irregular cases. The HANFA Business Report shows that HANFA’s rational business has resulted in an excess of expenditure in 2009 being 10.06 million kuna. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided to unanimously submit a conclusion to the Croatian Assembly to accept the Annual Report of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency for 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58881	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58882	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's a few days ago we had a chance to look at our prime minister at the opening of that New York Stock Exchange working day, as soon as she rang, everything went red, and with us gentlemen, I have the impression that everything she did was black and only good in New York is that she announced that she was going to replace half the government and half of the HDZ presidency, as a matter of principle, to sacrifice a few pawns to save the queen. ... Come on, come on, that's right, gentlemen. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's not a subject. [[Intruder: It's not a topic.]] Maybe when that happens our securities and capital market will live, but I doubt it while these governments are. Not from the first, okay. [[Intruder: It's not a topic.]] But to get back to this capital market now. And then here it is said nicely that the sharp decline in the value of the 2008 Croatian capital market index CROBEX continued until 9.3.2009 when it reached the lowest annual value of so many points. The total traffic achieved on the Zagreb Stock Exchange in 2009 reached 10.9 million kuna, down from 64.9% compared to total turnover in 2008. So a 64.9% reduction, etc. Then here on page 8 we are spoken and here we are shown one chart, the revenues are the basics of providing investment services and carrying out investment activities by legal persons for 2009. So then all these banks are listed here, the Croatian Post Bank which participates with 2%, Volksbanka 3%, Privredna banka Zagreb 9, Zagrebačka 16, Raiffeisen Austria 23, Erste 30, Ssote General or Splitska banka 2%, Hypo Alpe Adria banka 12%. I'm just gonna hang out for a second at this Hypo Alpe Adria bank. She is the fifth bank otherwise active in the Republic of Croatia with someone, if I am not mistaken, 40 billion kuna. I suppose since 2001, the Croatian State has certainly borrowed at least 10 billion kunas with extra budget funds. I know that in that period, the County of Istria has not given any lip in 2001, and in Istria it is somewhere in the strength of the 8th bank. It's clear everything that's been going on around that bank. Out with it whether it is about Istria, Rijeka, Zagreb, Zadar, what I know about Dubrovnik, etc. But normally, those who have been participated in any way so that they have helped themselves under quotes not to say affluent, let them respond. And as far as a single financial institution is concerned, it is clear that we need to preserve it because one blow against society if only one bank kneels this state could not endure. However, I have no intention of talking about that bank now. What I'm far more interested in is gentlemen this game with Liburnia. On the 16th and 17th, respectively, it is said that, in the last year, the agencies, within their powers of supervisory measures, have adopted two solutions establishing the continuation of the obligation, publication and takeover bids, and have ordered it to be published since the persons who were obliged to publish the offer under the Act on the takeover of stock companies did not do so within the legal, prescribed time limit. One company is the Auktor Capital, again Laguna from Novigrad, I'd like to finally get to that structure to see who's actually behind it, who's the bearer of not regular but privileged shares. And secondly, then it's said, it's still spoken. So the city of Opatija, Opatija - Marshall Tito 3, means the municipality of Matulji, Matulji - The square of Marshal Tito 11. Interesting both in Opatija and the coast of Marshal Tito. And in the Matuls, the square of Marshal Tito. Then the Municipality of Moščenica Draga - Freedom Square, the municipality of Lovran Promenade of Marshal Tito. Look. And what's not good! And then they release these shares to this new one, as it is already called Liburnia, and all of what we now have is a chance to track around the House of the Fund, that is, Mr. Ostoja. Gentlemen, what was the coupon privatisation? It was a dare to say one conversion squared. When the fathers of our privatisations, unfortunately not mine, but ours realized that there was still some major national systems left to privatise, then the gentlemen came up with a game with this coupon privatisation. In this way they privatized themselves I dare say one good part of the hotel sector what was not previously privatised whether it was Istria, whether it was Opatija, Liburnia, whether it was not about other systems throughout our Adriatic. Who were the gentlemen who ran that coupon privatisation? They weren't bagpers anymore, they weren't bags anymore. In Croatia, gentlemen with ties started doing it. So, investment funds. But interestingly enough, they came to those stocks without a single kuna. So they were no longer gentlemen in government or forced to carry those bags full of money and to go from shareholders to shareholders, or workers, or who had already acquired them or defenders, and to pay him that money for those shares. And that's how we get there, so that's where we're going. A man asks himself a question no matter what human or God's law Mr. Ostora, let's say he comes to Liburnia today. What should probably be the best Croatia has in tourism, i.e. with Dubrovnik hotels. How come Liburnia can't, that Liburni's pardon can't be run by the state and one individual can run it? How come this individual I'm guessing in the '90s, what could he have? Nothing. Ladu, it doesn't matter, he can make money, and such a system that had 150 years of tradition simply couldn't even get paid. In 2005, gentlemen were able to stop the gift of Liburnia in Opatija. But today it's clear past and at least let the agency gentlemen answer us the answers they've been running since they gave up or left to Mr. Ostoj. What is it I don't know changed I dare say compared to 2005? It's all the same to me when it comes to Liburnia. And how in 2005, something that was a bad job, which she gave up, and in 2010, the government became a good job. Clearly, you will appeal to court rulings. All these judgments are based on our laws. It is a problem that all these laws are not based on laws, but that all these laws are an expression of political will which is imposed I dare say from these conversion circles. I'm sure even HDZ representatives, that their return would not raise their hands for such laws. But what are you going to do? We have teams sitting in executive power, in the government, and after leaving the government, de facto, taking over these funds, so it's no wonder that while they were there, they were more managed by their own interests than by the state. And now that's coupon privatisation? I'm only going to quote this article from the second Law on Privatization Investment Funds. If I'm not mistaken, it's '97. A year. And then says coupon privatisation is the transfer of shares without charge, without charge or procedure of allocation of shares without charge in accordance with the provisions of the '96 Privatisation Act. Then it's said next. Privatisation coupon shall be a coupon which is in accordance with Article 27. The Privatisation Act gives individuals under the law again without charge. Privatisation shares are shares that are given without charge under the provisions, etc. etc. You keep saying that. Clearly, it is thought of some citizens of the Republic of Croatia but where, besides in Croatia, there is something that is given to someone for nothing in order to transform it nicely again into the property of selected individuals. So, one more time. Cup privatisation is something that was done without charge, and God gives me someone who didn't have anything in the '90s, who didn't invest anything to get to those shares after that now also without charge gets a whole of Liburni. It's not the problem in that case, it's the same with all our privatisation, but what we're going to do now is we can only lamble this about the revision of conversion and privatisation, but instead of respecting the Constitution in that part we're simply mocking the Constitution, the president is talking about the revision and that sort of thing, we're giving up Liberia and what can I say to you, it's all too expensive to be throwing sand into the eyes of citizens, which is lying to them, and on the other hand they're being encouraged to have some revisions, but there's not going to be anything understandable in this country. One word, to go back to that anthological Royce who pitted the pit, and that's how, unfortunately, he's going to stay in this country. The article, not an article, but a party to 40 pension funds, compulsory pension funds, means quotes, i.e. funds in which membership is mandatory for all persons employed, who, at the time when the funds started working, or at the time of first employment, are referred to as persons, were under 40 years old, with persons between 40 and 50 years of age, able to choose whether to become members of compulsory pension funds. It is now said that these funds are AZ, Erste, PBZ, insurance d.d., Raiffaisen etc., but what is far more interesting on page 47 is said to be quoted: the property of the company for the management of compulsory pension funds increased in 2009 by 11.3% and amounted to 544.3 million kuna. The total capital of the company increased by 8.6% in the same period, the total capital of the company per member of the compulsory pension fund at the end of the period is 333.9 kuna. And that increased by 5.3%. So the total capital per member of the mandatory pension fund is 333.9 kuna and now we see what we are investing in and what pensions will be the next day, higher than those funds, and these offered legal solutions. In one word, it's bad enough for us, if we keep playing with bill proposals like that, under quotes, I'm going to call him about the temporary or early retirement we discussed a few days ago, which is announced, because the law didn't go into effect, so it wasn't the law that drove 20 thousand people out of retirement, which created the country in the long term only in a year's damage of one billion kuna in 5 or 10 years, so let's count on that damage to be far greater, then it's just bad for us. Do not privatize, when you mention Croatia insurance, introduce order in Croatia insurance, remove the directors of bonuses, cut salaries, let them not sponsor and let them not finance the parties, and for the end of 136 people work at HANFA, I think it's rude a lot, we won't at other times pay, but certainly there's no need for such a number in one such agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58883	Thank you. It is up to the HDZ Representatives' Club and Mr Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58884	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the esteemed president of the HANFA administration with an associate, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Koračević is already listening to what I'm about to say. So, my colleague Koračević, if by chance I were not forced by God to choose, lead, which state institution is then far in the last place of these forced desires would be the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. But why? So here's one reason why my colleague Cain said so easily that too many employees in HANFA and I'm afraid I'm not sufficiently addressed to the scope and expertise of this job, but my last wish would not be because of this extensive and professional job, nor because of a sector covered by HANFA supervision that makes up more than 35% of gross domestic product with 115 billion kuna or which is subject to the supervision of 280 entities. It wouldn't be my last choice, either because it's a highly professional and responsible job, and it wouldn't be the last choice, and it wouldn't be because of what HANFA is often exposed to different pressures from stakeholders and speculators. HANFA as my last wish would be for one reason only, because all the effort that HANFA makes does not have a final satisfaction, and that final satisfaction is missing in established irregularities, in filing many criminal charges without certain sanctions. For example, so far, 368 times HANFA has found that there have been violations, 34 cases that have been committed, as referred to in Article 4. The law on criminal offences against the capital market, where market manipulation has occurred, but also in Articles 311 and 224. Penalty for counterfeiting papers or frauds, and so far, no one has been legally convicted of such misdemeanors. In 2009 alone, HANFA filed 5 criminal and 49 criminal charges, and why are sanctions necessary? So because the effects of market manipulation on the capital market are inconceivable, speculation, manipulation, fraud and capital market abuse are so present throughout history that this problem has interested many scientists, not just economists. For example, great scientist Isaac Newton said that he could easily explain the movement and measure the movement of the body in space, but that he couldn't possibly explain human madness in the capital market, and indeed human madness, grampity, greed, indifference, selfishness right on the financial market, in the capital market show all their luxury, all their potentials, all their imagination, and all possible variations of so-called. Ponci's schemes and these are cheating schemes. The ancient Latins said that the history of life was a teacher, but unfortunately economic science seemed to have learned nothing from economic history. Economic history, or financial history, is better written in many black days. And on a black Monday and Tuesday, and on a black Wednesday and Thursday, and instead of a black Friday, we had a black year. But the major consequences of speculation on the capital market and the financial market in Croatia were not solely due to the preventive and timely reactions of HANFA. And there have been attempts by both amoral and abject, and unprofessional and illegal behaviour of business entities and responsible persons. For example, some Leasing societies didn't run business records at all. Some real estate investment funds, rather than necessarily investing at least 60% in real estate, have invested in vault records, commercial records or deposited their money as deposits with business banks, which is illegal. However, due to the surveillance and measures of HANFA, the occurrences were observed, removed and reported. HANFA has responded enormously to the culmination of the global economic financial crisis and, together with the largest investment and pension funds, set up an intervention fund worth 150 million kuna and only thanks to the high level of professionality of HANFA, this fund has not been activated in this most difficult crisis. It is therefore doubtless that HANFA has met its 2 basic objectives: ensuring the stability of the financial system and the exercise of supervision of the legality of the work of control entities. But the 2009 Annual Report shows that HANFA has met its third goal, which is a transparent and analytical demonstration of the work and results of all surveillance entities. The content of the information report and the Croatian Parliament as a legislator, as well as the users of financial services, as well as individuals on the financial market, provides the necessary information. Because it is of paramount importance for intermediaries in the financial market, the capital market, transparent true information, because without it, no timely decisions can be made, correct investment decisions, and neither take views nor make analyses. I can therefore clearly say that HANFA has earned praise for her work. HANFA needs Croatia, it is a prerequisite for a healthy financial market, it is a prerequisite for a healthy capital market. She's also an obstacle to manipulation. HANFA is also an obstacle to speculation. This HANFA contributes to building a healthy economic system, contributes to building a healthy capital market system, and contributes to an economic system in which there will be no future black financial days, let alone black years. And I can also say freely that this HANFA contributes to the development of an economic system where there will be more people on the financial market and less barbarism. The HDZ Club supports both the work and the HANFA report. Work due to high professional level, and the report because it is content, complete and excellently composed. However, this is an opportunity to say that HANFA may also be able to find ways to make it clearer to the so-called "HanFA" within its work cycle. White knights. And that's what economists call those investors who'd love to appear as saviors buying shares, announcing the purchase of shares of some companies threatened by unwanted takeover. That's what I'm talking about. White knights directly influence the price of their shares, as well as the price of shares of that company, which demonstrates a public desire to buy. This is an opportunity and to say it seems to me to be an irrationally comfortable position of the investment fund management companies. And their position is best painted long ago even though he's not an economist famous writer of Emile Zola who says that when they put those societies in their pocket, when they lose nothing and put it in their pocket again. So this comfortable situation of these societies really merits special attention. Finally, I would point out that in the last 12 years, Croatia has paid a huge sum of 2 banking crises, and the bank's recovery would amount to more, i.e. almost how much today's debt is in the central state. And it was also part of a regulatory inexperience and supervisory opportunism that affected individuals and damaged Croatia. Fortunately, today we have HANFA which is an example of a regulatory body whose action is aimed at protecting the financial system and protecting the national interests of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58885	Thank you. It is the SDP representative's club, Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58886	Dear President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency together with a representative of the administration. The SDP club will not and cannot support this report by HANFA for 2009. We're warning constantly about all the problems in the business of HANFA. And we're going to warn, and we're doing it all the time, and especially the part about reporting and the measures that should have already been taken. When we talk about this report, then it should be pointed out that it is statistically without an analytical approach with a mere numbering. No information on the Agency's regulatory role, no surveillance information carried out by that same agency. Other institutions in the world dealing with supervision of financial services are also resting on analysts, and not only that, but they issue numerous professional publications just when it comes to analytical methods. Also, the question arises when the HANFA Law provides for the existence of the HANFA Council. Until the day of today in the last 4 years, the HANFA Council has not been established and if we listen to the law, the question arises whether it is HANFA because it does not have a legal institution. Also, who runs the HANFA? Does the President of the Board and who controls the work of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency unless the same Council is present? These are the questions the government will have to answer, not the HANFA, but the government. There is also no cash flow report, there is no known where the funds are going under this Report, there is no cost analysis at previous periods and there is no income structure, there is no cost and staff analysis, and that is all the things that we will not and cannot support this report by the Croatian Financial Supervision Agency. And when we return to history as far as I have now listed, it reflects on recent events and affairs in Croatia's history, then it is enough to say that in 4 years since 2006 in the affair of Podravka HANFA did not react. So, when FIMA first bought 10.64% of Podravka shares did not carry out or conduct surveillance, no FIME accounts were checked in the following year, not after a month and a half after the Spice affair, also in 2008. FIMA also manipulated the market, which was also not implemented and following the Marine's claims, means when the Marine talked about taking over Podravka also did not occur. This all points to the discretionary criterion of action. It is done when it is desired, or when it has to be done, but it is not done when it is not wanted. Thus, the failure to deal with these three suspicious situations in 4 years led to the Podravka affair, so we can say that HANFA is responsible for the Podravka affair. What we can see in this report, the 2009 report is two indicative things that everyone in this country should pay attention to and ask themselves. I'll start with what's growing. The only property that grew in 2009 was the company's Factoring property, and that's 10%. But there I will return to something called subsidies, subsidies in agriculture. Individence in the state, a non-payment that rarely lasts for a year and a half, conditioned that our peasants sell their incentives to banks through the factoring of society, which incur an interest of 13% on them because the state can no longer pay for the incentives. Our peasants pay tribute to banks because of a state that can't pay off incentives, that's what's happening. Factoring companies increased by 10% in 2009, these are companies that assume the obligation to pay. They have grown precisely because the state is inequitable, precisely because the state cannot pay and it is an important segment, and it is especially terrible if it happens to our peasants and farmers. To which the bank takes 13 or 15% effective interest from incentives because the state has failed to pay off incentives. That's what's terrible. However, we also need to open up a chapter of leasing. By 2008 leasing was one of the fastest growing financial industries but in 2009 due to the economic crisis, part of the global, part of the endogenous domestic structural crisis, as we have repeatedly warned, because it was not normal for some market indices when it comes to the index on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, when it comes to the price of some shares and when it comes to investment in share capital to be at this level where they were when they set out in the initial stock offerings. And we warned that it was a balloon that would break up sooner or later what happened. WITH this pay phone, we warned that we claimed there was no hearing at the time, but in the end it happened. What we can now conclude is that when it comes to the leasing industry which has also suffered losses, in losses in 2009, the question arises as to how it is possible for the Leasing industry to operate according to this Report and according to the report on the state of capital and reserves in general. Because the loss above the capital level, it's over 60 million kuna sectoral and only for comparison, in Hypo leasing the loss above the capital level is close to 800 million kuna and it's just the part that's not chargeable. What about that part that's just about to come, you can't see. So the loss above capital is a billion kuna, as it is even possible and that's the question for HANFU that leasing companies that have no more capital operate. Then there should be an emphasis on comparison with some other regulators, so I am taking an example of the banking sector and the Croatian National Bank regulator. Now, there can be used one criterion which is very clear and talks about the cost of the reservation for the activity next year and this, for example, in the banking sector, is the cost of the reservation amounting to 3.57 billion on the total activity of 378.4 million kuna. Reservations are otherwise cost-reduced for poor placements in the future. Now, in the leasing industry these booking costs are as much as 1.4 billion to slightly more than 30 billion kuna, meaning over 4% and the question of capitalization of the Leasing Houses is being raised and the question is whether these reservations should be even more and what it does and what HANFA was doing and how it is possible that surveillance allowed, surveillance of HANFE. Because of all that we have stated, and especially because of non-transparent discretionary criteria, as well as the absence of the HANFA advice which is a legal obligation and which is why we rightly ask ourselves whether HANFA is a legal institution at all. Since it's a legal obligation and it's not being implemented, we at the SDP club can't or will support a report like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58887	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58888	Thank you very much. Not one but three, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Bernardic, said there was no information in the report on the surveillance carried out in the Podravka affair, did not respond to the purchase of HANFA shares and no idea where the funds from HANFA are going. None of these allegations are correct. The report shows how many controls were carried out, how many objects were opened, 512 open objects. In the case of Podravka, the first purchase of HANFA shares could not even be controlled, my colleague Bernardić, because it is acquired on the basis of sales contracts, not on the stock market, because the first shares were purchased from Frank, the Business Bank, directly based on the Podravka contract, and then transferred that contract from Podravka to Fima Ami, etc. And as far as the funds are concerned, the report shows how rational HanFA was throughout the year only having representations more or less than in one month the cost of a member of the administration's gasoline five, six years ago. Tell me, would you please tell me that there was only one failure that HANFA made or did illegal business?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58889	The club of representatives of HNS and HSU Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58890	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Right in the introduction of two things. First, the HNS and HSU club won't support this report, and I'll give the argument later in the debate. And secondly, I fully understand and I agree in part with my colleague Maric when he said it was the last institution in a series that would accept leadership. I'm sure of it. Otherwise, my colleague Maric and I in many things understand, we understand, we criticise, especially when it comes to the profession, meaning something that is outside of politics. But quite certainly the reasons he cited why he would not accept the leadership of that institution, speculation and manipulation in the capital market, irregularities in the leasing market and particularly intriguing, the efforts of the HANFA to give us a final satisfaction, and that is correct. That's true and that's true. That's not exactly what this report says, though. It's between lines, but it's a serious problem. We totally agree because of all these things that don't happen by accident. All the speculation, the manipulation of the capital market, the maladministration of the leasing market does not happen by chance. And it is no accident that the advice of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency is not working. And it's not an accident. Therefore, a whole series of reasons that fully justify certain issues are far more powerful than that of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency's Report, which we are currently discussing, but quite certain that this report also says that all the events in that market for which HANFA is in charge as a regulator, the results of the supervisory, the non-banking financial sector, some negative trends resulting in both financial crises and, above all, a far more significant measure of the overall structural economic crisis for which we have not been able to find solutions long ago, years ago, and not now. We seem to be doing a whole series of things purely pro-form, purely marketing but contentally and systematically not giving effect without giving effect to the state of affairs in the real sector, talking about the situation in those who produce a new value. And based solely on the new value we can talk about some kind of development, we can talk about some kind of functioning. And this new value is also the result of a total decline in that part of the market that is controlled and regulated by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. Because the very fact that the traffic on the Zagreb Stock Exchange in 2007 was 22 billion I'm only talking about shares, that in 2008, that traffic fell to 8 billion, means 70% slightly less than 70%, that in 2010 the first 6 months was 2.7 billion. The expectations are 5 billion by the end of the year, so further decline. Logically, people get out of work, an extremely large number of companies do, and workers don't get paid. The measures carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in continuity over the last 7 years give results. We have the overall state of the country as well as the support of speculation and manipulation. In the market for irregularities there are various and in the very system of control when we talk about the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency we do not have complete infrastructure resolved because there is no advice. On the other hand, however, what is important is what is raised as a question, as a conclusion or a reason. Reading this report, the fact that and perhaps something that pays to be at the head of this institution, the fact that HANFA has more income, incomes greater than costs, the fact that in 2009 the surplus was directed towards revenue for the year cca 10 million kuna, is the fact that in 2008 only when the Zagreb Stock Exchange was 22 billion in shares in HANFA, 119 employees were employed. Here's today we heard he's working 136 at HANFA. Despite the decline in the market of cca 60, 70% of employees are growing, a whole series of regulations, laws and regulations of the European Union need to be harmonised, which is certainly commendable. However, does this decline in the market, such a level of employees with such fees as are present and which burden the non-financial market whether it makes sense, can this work? The fact is that HANFA intervened according to both depositary and the Zagreb Stock Exchange to cut its fees and they reduced their fees and many others cut their fees in this country. But if HANFA cut the fee, she didn't. But that's why she made 10 million kunas extra, the 2009 income she transferred to 2010. In other words, one wonderful environment, you have income for sure, if whoever pays you that income can handle it, about that afterwards. But the fact is that a whole series of brokerage houses are shutting down, the fact is that about 20 fund management companies have been shut down and the fact is that the total capital market has a decline of around 70%. In the construction sector, in the wood industry, in the textile sector, in every real sector when the fall of the market, people are out of work and they're out of work. Did something happen at HANFA? The market dropped 70%, achieved conditionally extra profit, higher revenue over expenditure, so there is no need for sensitivity in that segment to adapt to the overall state, it simply does not exist. The fees remain the same. But that's why you're ordering those you've got a chance to do what you can to keep them in order, to cut them down. Is that why there's no advice? I mean, a whole series of questions that we probably and almost certainly won't get an answer to, even if we all know him together. Now the question is who, how does he interpret it and when he has the willingness to speak it out loud and clear? Furthermore, the fact is that legal persons, natural persons, have entered the arrangement of leasing from a variety, due to the lack of the market, are unable to regain their obligations. Privates are out of work, unable to repay their obligations, but they receive regular notice from the Leasing House and that warning is from 100 to 250 kuna. Whether the regulator has the ability to act on the market in terms of covering real costs or charging real costs that someone who is not subject to the obligation is not subject to. Thus, 250 kuna times times times creates an extremely nice additional income to the leasing houses. Extraordinaryly beautiful. Is this where the HANFA has shown its responsibility to the citizens of its state? It is true, then HANFA as a regulator does not live on the burden of taxpayers because it has its income, is not on the burden of the budget, but lives on the burden of participants on the financial market, and these are again citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, a whole series of questions are open to which we cannot or will not get an answer today, but the very conclusion that HANFA as a regulator, as an institution, I appreciate every effort and we at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Retired Party welcome and support every efforts of HANFA that HanFA is doing in terms of regulation, institutional regulation of that market, the financial market and there is a whole series of things well done. But I don't think it's right for the citizens of this country to behave properly for the entire moment. As wages fall 8.1% in the real sector, public sector is growing. While in part of the financial market in which the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency forms its income and acts towards them, it warns them to cut the fee, HANFA does nothing. We secure our peace. And it's a beautiful environment and a beautiful environment to work with. On a matter that I personally disagree with, and I would never accept, because it's also a whole series of other criteria, why and why this whole story works and goes that way. Finally, we at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian party of pensioners always stress in our discussions the need to invest in knowledge. Always. Because knowledge is the only chance and the greatest potential of this country. And surely we support every effort, surely that we are waiting and we want to know when there is not a single sentence in this report that would suggest how and how the financial market affects to rise, from a fall of 70% to reduce that decline. There is no sentence as to how and in what way, what moves should be taken, what activities should be withdrawn by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to raise that part of the economy. We will also see what impact the doctoral dissertation will have on the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Croatia, the impact of the location of the assets of institutional portfolio investors. If they'll have it, then we support it. But at this point in time when people are left without a job, when people in various ways have to fight for their life existence, we witness every day, in this way, on the burden of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, respecting all the positive things that have been done, we consider that in the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retireds we should have feelings for a moment and give our contribution to a certain part of the market is functional because it is a basic task and therefore people in the Croatian Agency for Financial Services Oversight and finally and set up in spite of other things, and this agency is informed which is absolutely good and which should be supported and something that should also be supported in other institutions in this country and be effective. We at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired For these reasons, we are unable and we cannot support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58891	Thank you. A few corrections. The first is Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58892	Thank you very much. I'd rather rephrase it to you, but I'm going to correct two allegations because I can't do otherwise. First, you said the report didn't say there was no final satisfaction in the sanctions. It says that no judgment has been passed. That's what it says. So it's not true. Secondly, you repeat what your colleague Bernardic has no advice and you are asking the question of the legality of HANFA and there is no advice. Well, he's got advice. Anyone who knows anything can read that the president of the council is Mr. Galic from Allianz. For God's sakes, we're cheating on the public with lies.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58893	Ms. Representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58894	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's Mr. Koračević wrongly says the fact that it's worth being at the head of the agency because it's earned a surplus of income. This is no fact to you, Mr. Koračević, because it should be said that the agency is a non-profit organisation and surplus income based on the decision of the administration used for its current business for 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58895	Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58896	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's Mr. Korachević said that HANFA is not involved in the development of the non-banking sector which is really not true. The role of HANFA is regulation, the stability of the financial sector depends on the regulation. So if they're doing their job well, if the non-banking sector is stable then I think they're doing it in a function of developing the non-banking sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58897	Individual debate, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58898	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable President of the Board, colleagues and colleagues. The fact that HANFA worked in 2009 under specific special conditions. In fact, by the end of 2008, and especially in early 2009 there were major problems in the global financial market, the decline of shares on world stock markets, which was indeed one of the initiators of the global global crisis. As we are also part of, though, the small global market, these negative effects have inevitably affected our financial and overall economic movements. However, thanks to timely interventions by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian National Bank, our financial and banking system has remained stable. There was no drastic decline in stock values, no decline in kuna exchange rates. There was no difficulty in financing public needs. We know that pensions were paid in time, salaries in public services, social contributions, and it is certain that many individual industries of organisations, the agency contributed to the mitigation of the effects of the global crisis and the mitigation of the negative consequences of its impact. One of these agencies is certainly the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency because the fact is that financial stability and assets of the non-bank sector despite unfavourable developments in the real and total financial sector in 2009. The number of surveillance entities was not changed due to insolvency or forced liquidation, and the assets under management increased by 11% compared to 2008. The share of the non-bank sector in the total assets of the financial sector remained the same 23%, while the share of assets in the gross domestic product stood at around 35%. I think this is also the result of the work of HANFA in all areas of its activities and timely intervention in cases of failure or non-compliance with the law. The Agency has indeed been very active in regulation in the past year. It has adopted 36 sublegislative acts in the direction of adapting and harmonising legislation in the area of the capital market with the acquis of the European Union. The Agency also monitored the work of investment funds, pension funds, insurance markets, pension insurance companies, factoring companies. As part of its powers, the agencies issued opinions, recommendations and advice, as well as initiated misdemeanours in cases of gross violations of the law. What I was particularly pleased to read from the report is that during 2009, there were no major violations of legal provisions in the business of compulsory and voluntary pension funds. I really think that it is still necessary and important to monitor directly and indirectly continuously the same. And why is that? First, it is known that pension funds as a special type of investment funds are based on pension reform in 2002 and we heard today from IDS MPs Mr Cain that he is actually criticising in some way the establishment of these pension funds. Membership in compulsory pension funds is mandatory for all persons employed, i.e. all employees who pay their contributions to the so-called The second pillar. So they have to join, they have to pay. In 2009, there were 4 pension funds that joined 52349 new people. On 31.12.2009, over a million and a half people were joined into all four compulsory pension funds. And what's interesting is the fact that as many as 92.23% of the insurance company deployed the REGOS. Therefore, after the expiry of the legal deadline for the selection of the pension fund. So members were able to define themselves. They didn't define themselves, and that's what REGOS did. What's coming out of it? It follows that most persons who have been obliged to join a Mandatory Peace Fund or who do not have information on the operation of compulsory funds, on the level of risk, cost-effectiveness, net contribution or simply cannot be identified for a mandatory fund because they do not have sufficient data to make the right decision. Since a total of 4.6 billion kunas of net contributions were paid in 2009 in the mandatory pension funds, the total funding of funds is seen to be large. And those funds are really big. They are important for the future of each member of the fund, and every possible protection of members and their resources is needed both mandatory and voluntary pension funds. It is precisely because only in this part of the report that I have just talked about is about significant resources, the quality of this report, and in particular it is about the safety of each member of the payment, that their funds are being invested transparently and that they are being protected. I support the activities of HANFA in the consistent application of legal powers to all parties to the transaction, in the non-banking sector, and thus guarantees us its institutional and financial independence. In the end I think that the overall rating of the agency in the last year can be assessed positively, the HANFA has fulfilled its objectives and tasks and I will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58899	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58900	Thank you very much. Your colleagues Majdenić said and pointed to the professionality of HANFA in all your activities. Well, it's not disputed that HANFA is professional at all levels, but I would point out one particular activity, which is to give consent to members of the HANFA surveillance board. For example, HANFA refused to agree 15 times for the members of the administration because it was verifiable to verify both the professionality, qualifications, the work programme evaluated, checked the diplomas, checked the results of the work so far, and if it were controlled by HANFA and other institutions then it could never happen, as happens in one institution, or one company called Intesa Sanpalo Card Croatia, where it was appointed director... management of Goran Bozanovic who bought a diploma at the so-called ... [[You don't understand.]] The university in America, which does not exist at the university, but is sent a résumé, pays a certain price and gets a degree in first-rate economics. [[You don't understand.]] There are such cases in Croatia, but it cannot be in those entities where HANFA controls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58901	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58902	Well, fellow Maric, I also think, I agree with you that HANFA really works professionally, and when we set up HANFA, we told the Parliament here that it was good to cover all these areas, because that means pension insurance and the capital market and everything that HANFA has the right to control, because then people will be more people there are people involved, there will be one more quality surveillance. And this particular situation last year, so when this global crisis occurred, if we hadn't had such a set-up financial agency, there would have been a lot of bigger problems. This is how we have one stable surveillance of the non-bank sector, which will continue to develop for sure. This situation is like this, but what's important is that no one has lost confidence in HANFA. And what Mr. Representative Maric said was there was no failure in the HANFA, and I think that's how the HANFA should proceed. And we here from the Parliament need to re-send messages to optimism, trust in our state institutions, we must not constantly doubt some evidence, the HANFA is really doing its job quality, and I do not think I can agree with Mr Cain, I think Mr Cain was saying that we should reduce the person. When you have such a well-organized HANFA, when you have a professional frame, then that piece should be kept. This crisis has come, but it will pass, and we must not give up our people who have trained well and who are really doing quality work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58903	Thank you. At 11 and 33, it was time to report a debate of 10 minutes per item of the agenda. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58904	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here we see from this debate, in fact, that the role, the very role of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, is really quite important, that we differ somewhat in the opinion of its quality of work, but everyone weighs and assumes that the work that leads the people employed by HANFA at the head of the law is both appropriate and responsible, doing a really difficult job which, as counterpart Maric said, is when we talk about leadership hard and rarely who wants to accept it. It should be mentioned at the outset that, within this four-year, four-year HANFA report, this year's report is the most extensive, where it is indeed shown that all events and regulatory activities and results... , super-revision of the non-bank financial sector throughout the Republic of Croatia. [[You don't understand.]] It is clear that the events recorded in 2009 are mainly related to the global crisis of the capital market, from before 2009, so in 2008 and in addition to the fall of regular traffic on the Zagreb Stock Exchange and only a slight recovery of the CROBEX index in 2009 will definitely remain remembered for both the decline of the total assets and the loss of investment, i.e.... Guys. [[You don't understand.]] However, due to a slight recovery of the capital market, there has also been an increase in the net assets of open investment funds by 21% and the net assets of compulsory pension funds by slightly less than 30%. It is interesting that the insurance market recorded a slight decline charged total, i.e. gross premiums of slightly less than 3% compared to the previous year, but still the overall financial result of the insurance and reinsurance business positive. One of the markets with the biggest disturbances in the year behind us is the leasing market, which recorded a decline in the value of newly concluded contracts by more than 47%, and a decline in the total assets of leasing companies was noticeable, and unfortunately it also withdrew the financial negative result of the business of the total leasing industry. The regulatory activities themselves in 2009 were dominantly linked to the example of the Capital Market Act, and its related sublaws, and in accordance with the law in the procedure were licensed, consent was granted from the company administration, authorisation for the work of brokers and investment advisers, but there were also withdrawals of the authorisation for work for administrative reasons and, with the approval of the prospectuses... The stock exchange was approved to set up new open investment funds, but as noted by counterpart Maric that in these procedures, therefore... [[You don't understand.]] the law, but also the expert assessment of people who should be the bearers of therefore the work of society, but also the assessment of legal entities whether they are capable of the criteria for the job or not. [[You don't understand.]] The supervision of capital market supervisories conducted by HANFA resulted in a series of open cases, over 500-digits, and, as a result, it also submitted certain criminal statements and accused proposals from the capital market. It is also worth mentioning the activities of HANFA in cooperation with other institutions which, at the end of 2009, resulted in the signing of one... Memorandum of Understanding with members of the International Organisation for Capital Markets, and its employees actively participated in the EU accession negotiations process, which actually contributed to the timely closure of Chapter 9. - Financial services. I might look back here on, for me and across the circle of people and citizens, 3 markets: the insurance market, the leasing market and the factoring market which are interesting and specific. As I said in the introduction, the life insurance market in 2009, so it increased slightly when we talk about that life insurance, so there was a decrease in non-life insurance, but generally this dam was doing positive, clear with part of the reduction in total income and from the insurance market, but I dare say in a way less affected by the events that were in 2009. HANFA certainly played and took care of the permits to carry out the activities of the insurance itself and thus definitely influenced both the very professional and quality access to the insurance market. As one of the more interesting situations could be seen is related to the leasing market of which this year, or 2009, activity was quite burdensome and quite burdensome. The very finding that in 2009, a total of 32 thousand Leasing contracts were concluded, almost 27 thousand less than a year ago, tells enough about the reduction that certainly affected and reflects the overall natural activities and global movements both on the Croatian market and on the outside, and is related to, therefore, the easing of placements both in industrial consumption and in the other part of our country's citizens, thus the problem of personal consumption and the caused problems of leasing houses and, above all, the resulting first and quite a lot of losses. In all of this, there are also regulatory activities in that dam, which have been continued by the adoption of the Regulation on the amount and the manner and time of payment of the fee for the management of the Leasing facility Register, by continuing to upgrade the regulatory framework for the Leasing market, which normally refers to the newly established Leasing Object Register. Another interesting segment is the factoring which in the reports provided by companies registered to perform factoring on 31.12. in the Republic of Croatia is dominated by domestic factoring, over 96% of total factoring claims where the purchase of claims by customers from the Republic of Croatia and which is characterised by the right to regress, i.e. the right of the company to perform factoring operations in order not to be charged by the buyer by the applicant. For the factoring market in Croatia, it is worth or important to say that it has a high concentration characteristic because the largest company at the level of activity, which is... refers to over 62, 63% of the total activity, and together with 2.3, the first factoring of society makes it more than 90% active. What is worth saying is that the assets of the companies themselves registered by, or companies registered for the conduct of factoring operations are mostly financed by loans from foreign banks and financial institutions. Of the 15 companies in the factoring area, 12 business years ended with a positive result in 2009 and approximately positive amounts and gained about 40 million kuna. Of course, there is a drop in profits, but it is clear that for the reasons that have already been said, it has already happened as such. As already said here, and it is worth repeating is that only the financial report of the Agency which is in accordance with the provision of Article. 20. The law on the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency during 2009, therefore, is worth undermining again, that the agency was financed from the compensation for the services provided and the compensation of the assets of the control entities and that it did not use the state budget funds to finance its activities. So I can conclude that this is the agency's report I'm going to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58905	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58906	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You showed your colleague Turk in your debate, and you pointed to the importance of professional and independent access and action of HANFA. I would take advantage of this opportunity to point out the importance of political independence in the activities of HANFA. And HANFA has in several cases made it clear to all, to the Croatian public, that it is a political independent body which is necessary and a prerequisite for its action. She said no to the finance ministry when the finance ministry wrote in the city of Opatija that there is no obligation to publish the takeover offer. Therefore, it must be published because it is not the original acquisition of shares and offers must be made public. She said when taking over Pliva and BARR, selling Pliva and buying by BARR, there was no takeover without the application of the Download Act. So the offer of BARR was ultimately twice as high as in the first one, so the stock price was 530 to 820 kuna, thanks to the intervention of HANFA. And so HANFA actually only consistent law enforcement does its job. Politically, it rejects pressures, and we know there were pressures in the case of Badell, both in the case of INA and in the case of Pliva and others. However, HANFA works independently, professionally and implements consistent law. And I'm really glad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58907	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58908	Dear Mr. Representative, it is good to hear that in the sea, even we are in the Croatian Parliament when we talk about certain topics, and we are normally politically colored, we hear that the characteristics and information that speak about something, which is that the profession above politics is especially if it is applied as such in the right place and if it is in these institutions that encounters fertile soil. If we add to this the responsibility of HANFA, first of all by having in our decisions a weight related to the value of financial, the value of money from which decisions arise as such, says in itself that such an approach is in fact an example as well as in the times ahead, so the maturity of decision-making on such a difficult and responsible subject as the topic dealing with HANFA can actually be an example to all of us and many others as the institution, in particular public systems but, in fact, it is also a system that is within public businesses, some of the principles that I believe that some others can learn from this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58909	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58910	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of a picture that is happening these days, unfortunately many of the things that the Government is touching these days and also through Prime Minister Kosor yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange, when it opened up the New York Stock Exchange, started the values of the shares on the New York Stock Exchange in the wrong direction, in the negative, so unfortunately, many things in Croatia under the HDZ bat are also going the wrong way. But if the HANFA had accidentally controlled the New York Stock Exchange, it might have increased the value, because we are not satisfied in the opposition that HANFA is working because HANFA is working exclusively under the bat and under the pressure of politics, and so I say instead of controlling HANFA, it would probably have been yesterday despite the fact that the Prime Minister opened the New York Stock Exchange the value of Dow Jones would have increased. Of course, it's little to begin to paint how HANFA is doing, which is why the opposition headed by SDP can't support the HANFE report or the agency's composition, because it's not what the agency should control the market to protect market participants, but in most cases, when it comes to policy services or covering inconsistencies that happened under the auspices of politics, and I'm going to say a few things about it. As far as the report itself is concerned, it is a set of data, unfortunately many data are illustrated by graphs from which it can neither know exact figures nor approximately, nor in the text are accompanied by any analysis, so I would say a report that is on over 100 pages and does not give much information, meaning nice looks but little information. But what can be read from it, primarily I will go through chapters when we talk about what the SDP is asking to do in Croatia without success over the past few years, to tax capital and those who earn capital instead of being taken constantly to Croatian citizens, workers, those who have the least, that those who earn large sums of money, large yields, that they pay out of their shares and profits on shares, a certain tax, this does not happen, of course because HDZ does not want it, HDZ does not want those who have more wages something, but unfortunately the greatest burden always falls on those who do not have much or who do not often have their basic existential needs. To see that it can be taxed you can see from the growth of Crobex, which grew 16% in 2009, after the fall in 2008, so there was a contribution on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, maybe the traffic wasn't too big, but some people, funds, etc., were making contributions and could have been taxed. I said why not, because HDZ on its concept basis does not want to tax those who have more than the burden always falls on workers and on those who have much less. As far as state-owned companies are concerned, here is an analysis of the insurance market, again, that the state does not manage its companies and resources properly. Croatia's insurance from year to year loses market share, a company burdened with affairs that still has 32% of the market three times the closest companion, but unfortunately there is no 3 times as much profit nominally, no, it has the same profit as someone who has 10% on the market. It is therefore very clear that neither the property nor the state-owned company is managed in a quality way. Of course, it is not HANFA's to analyse it but to give us information, but unfortunately those who should take care of it do not, because it is evident that Croatian security is not managed in the best way and that no one is interested in it. As far as market surveillance is concerned, I would have warned about the Leasing and I would have warned that it is visible which company has the largest share on the market, 30% of the market is holding Hypo Leasing, the company that is at the heart of the big international affair, unfortunately no information, no control, no suggestion that this something strange was happening from HANFA and the loss that occurred on that market was solely because Hypo had to increase the reservation of its disputed claims, but of course we didn't get information from the one who controls the market that needs to go to the company and see something strange happening there, and that's what HANFA could do. No, she just looked at things as much as anyone has a share in the market and now we have only a loss on that market because Hypo has controversial claims and what, somehow, because of his reservation, there's a downside in business. Factoring is unfortunately another harsh reality that is the product of the current HDZ economic policy, which is that there are many unpaid claims. The market rose in 2005 from 300 million kuna to even 7 billion kuna. And this is not about the claim up to 30, 60 or 90 days, most often these are claims that fail to charge for half a year, and unfortunately this is a direct consequence of internal liquidity, or more than 30 billion kunas of outstanding claims in the Republic of Croatia. It is a factoring market that has grown directly from the government's inadequate and poor economic policies, unfortunately these data that concerns everyone who reads this report. As far as the political impact on HANFA is concerned, I'm going to give two examples. One example of Podravka, where HANFA pushed her head into the sand like a noose, in no way reacting and potentially preventing one of the biggest affairs that has marked Croatia over the past few years. Downloading 10% of the shares of Podravka by one part of the people, now we see who these people are and the charges have been filed, with the money of Podravka over the third company. And now we're listening to information from the HANF that they didn't know, that they couldn't control that it wasn't in their jurisdiction. But, gentlemen, I suppose you're reading the paper, a bunch of that information was already in the paper. Just as trade in Podravka shares was stopped when President Podravka Vitkovic said he expects a thousand kuna for Podravka shares, you could have stopped the story in Podravka already in 2007. See this affair and maybe even prevent it, as many information was already known at the time, such as that Podravka issued short-term bonds at interest of 5.1 in 2006 and that it converted that money into a VABA deposit which was then ultimately used to buy those shares. So, the HANFA unfortunately did not do its job and is directly responsible, together of course not responsible, are the most responsible participants of the affair, but it is responsible that this affair did not prevent itself in its follow-up and did not stop. And she bears part of the responsibility that caused Podravka to suffer so much damage. The second example is INA. A few weeks before MOL's public offering for INA on the stock market was traded with 2600, 2500 for the stock of INA, meaning below the price offered by MOL. Someone put pressure on the stock market to accept people's offer of MOL. Because it's not possible for the stock market to quote a price that's 200 kn less, and you know that in a week you'll be able to get more money for the MOL stock. So someone created such a situation on the stock market and HANFA didn't ask about it, nor did she want to see who created the pressure that the INA stock price was going down so that MOL could buy as many shares as possible. The HANFA also served for policy purposes, which decided to sell INA shares to the fullest extent possible to MOL, and then to leave the management of the company to complete MOL. So two cases, two big affairs where HANFA didn't meet and that's why she can't get any support from the SDP. And in the end, I'll just say something about a financial report. I have never seen a poorer and weaker financial report with a table of income and expenditure worked out by two items, income and three items of expenditure. You can't see anything, except that HANFA had 10 million dollars more revenue over expenditure. Everything else is invisible. So the Parliament that founded the agency has no right to see neither the dismembered incomes nor the expenditures. That's my inadmissible gentlemen. I'm really surprised by the majority in this House who allows the agency she founded to report it this way. Our support, specifically my support for HANFA cannot be obtained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58911	Thank you. Corrections. Mrs. Representative, Ms. Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58912	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I'll correct a series of incorrect allegations. Of course, I'll only try to make one right, but I'm sure everyone will understand, and that's an allegation and a claim, that everything this government touches goes the wrong way. Well, it's simply incorrect, it's incorrect because the programme of economic recovery of this government, the fight against the corruption of this government, and here's a little bit more and finally negotiations with the European Union is the merit of this government, which, of course, the World Bank and the IMF both praise, but it doesn't matter to you, of course. What needs to be said, for example. that HEP has fulfilled all its obligations according to the government's plan and economic recovery. But it doesn't matter to you either. And fantastic leadership is visible simply in the city of Zagreb. That's where you have to be Mr. Maras and the rest of the worry, because there's a congregation you can't even vote on, and then here's the final selection of directors. Thank God I think the citizens of the city of Zagreb but also the Croatian people are already familiar with your hypocritical policy implementation at the state level, and here at the city level of a city that really counts almost a million people.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58913	Thank you. Ms. Representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58914	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague Marasa. I'll quote what he said in his debate. "HDZ conceptually taxes those who have the least." My colleague Maras is not true, because it is true that the Government in this crisis situation in the making of many measures is also very much thinking about certain categories of society and economy in the Republic of Croatia. As for taxation, Mr Maras, you and SDP have been running the city of Zagreb for 11 years. It'll be easier for citizens, you'll have higher incomes, it'll be easier for pensioners, easier to live. 18% of the cut was introduced in '90, '91. when Croatia was covered by the war, when 400,000 exiled Croats came to Zagreb from both Bosnia and Herzegovina and the country. That's when it was supposed to be that cut. So don't take it today to the citizens of the city of Zagreb and use it to promote the SDP. Cut 18% of the cut, then you're talking about tax policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58915	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58916	Mr. Vice President. Please protect me in 209 and 210 were injured. After her colleague first Sumrak and after that, Col. Šolić made and said the correction of the incorrect allegations began to talk about Zagreb. I did not really mention Zagreb in any word in my debate, nor is Zagreb the theme of this session and this point, so that you should at least in the domain of that correct yourself and ask them to limit themselves to correcting the incorrect allegations. As for Zagreb, Zagreb is Mrs. Sumrak and Mrs. Šolić, when you look at the quality of life 100 times better than the cities where you manage them. Everywhere the HDZ is in power lives three times worse than in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58917	It's not about my colleague Maras hurting the Rules of Procedure. Peace, please. You have also commented on HDZ policy, and the tax policy has answered your question. Okay, will you let whoever's running the session take him. Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58918	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague, Maras, not to correct you, but I'll give you a chance to answer. But you were talking about HANFA's actions under political pressure. It is true that there is political pressure on all possible institutions, but the question is whether this political pressure is working on HANFA. I claim not to, because I have clear evidence. I know who influenced Badell and from which political circles, but I also know that HANFA has rejected these political pressures. I know dozens of times where HANFA reacted professionally and professionally, not satisfying political desires. And I was just talking about that when I was talking about Pliva and the city of Opatija case. You speak ironically, if HANFA were to run the New York Stock Exchange, then the situation would be much nicer there. But I'm telling you, not ironic, it really would be. And despite the history of the great stock market in the world, the first stock exchange was founded to me in 1602. It would never happen under HANFA's supervision as it happens in America to take tens and tens of millions of dollars as collateral. One American Express member said that oil was edible, full of field tanks, oil tanks, and then ran away with millions of dollars, and it turns out there was water in the tanks, and only on the surface was oil. So superficial surveillance and such unprofessional relationship, the HANFA would never allow itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58919	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58920	Unfortunately, fellow Maric, we are not even on the surface of the oil. That's Croatia's problem. And thank you for raising your line because it's the correct behavior of a representative. Do not hide behind the correction of an incorrect quote that some have perfected to perfection. But I'm going to give you an exact example, and I said it in my debate. While Prime Minister Ivo Sanader was in Croatia, and very powerful Deputy Prime Minister from Koprivnica Mr. Polancec, Podravka was obviously not to be monitored because if this affair were to be monitored Spice and the damage to Podravka 400 million kuna would probably be prevented from monitoring HANFA. It's an eclectic example of political pressure or worse, a desire to stay political. Hand on the heart, I can move aside the information I'm getting that former Prime Minister Sanader had a direct link to Mr. Samodol who runs the HANFA. It doesn't matter. But it's important that Mr. Samodol and HANFA didn't initiate control, and they were right because it's in a description of the activities of the agencies and the supervision of the issuers of the securities. They could control Podravka and see what was going on with those 10% shares of Podravka. They didn't do it exclusively or out of political fear of being replaced or because of political pressure. It's unacceptable for both of us, and that's why HANFA doesn't have our support.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58921	Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58922	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen representing HANFA, colleagues and colleagues. I'm not going to say that there's nothing wrong with what he's doing in HANFA, but it's only obvious that he's blind and not saying that HANFA is still acting under political pressure, although it's politically biased, and it's causing damage to small shareholders with its acts. It is present and it is negativity and it is something that we must fight in the Parliament. That's why I'm only going to dedicate my entire debate to the Liburnia hotels of Opatija to see the operation of HANFA. We know it's a dispute that has long been present since the early '90s. The municipality, the city of Opatija and some of the municipalities of Lebanon lead the dispute with Liburnia and related to the land. A dispute that lasted over 10 years without a solution, which probably stopped the development of the Liburnia Hotel. The dispute, which came to an end in 2006 and 2007, in the first half. And the government of the Republic of Croatia headed by HDZ finally brought the dispute to an end and an agreement was signed between Opatija, the Privatisation Fund, Liburnia Hotel in 6 months 2007. In its first article, the two most fundamental things in which it is determined under point 1.1 that this agreement is concluded on behalf of the resolution of property law disputes on land. In point 1.3, this solution constitutes the original acquisition and acquisition of shares in the establishment of a stock company. This concludes the parties to the dispute and calls for Article 7 in which Article 7 of the interpretation of the Ministry of Finance serves to say that, based on such original acquisition, Article 7 defines that there is no obligation to take over cities and municipalities of Lebanon, the remaining shares. I must say that caution works, throughout 2007 the city of Opatija communicates with HANFA both with the Parliament and with Mr Sheks and even proposes security in order to implement the amendment and supplement the Act on the acquisition of stock companies in view of the government's policy where the government intended to resolve property disputes of cities and municipalities through the administration of this policy, assigning 25%+1 shares. Neither did we in the Parliament, nor did the government react, so the government's salary felt that article 7 was enough on the contract. And it was enough, it was enough. HANFA didn't react. Although you must know the whole half of 2007, it was known that this contract would be concluded, speculators raised prices simply expecting takeover. In 2008, nothing happens, in 2009 until the 9th month nothing happens and then imagine the solution of the HANFA which obligates after two years in Opatija that it must log out and, of course, at prices of two years ago. And do you even realize now why two years and a few months? very clearly, because after the local elections, the authorities in Opatija changed. It is no longer the HDZ majority party in the city of Opatija, it is SDP. And that's proof that Mr. Samodol, the agency has been placed in office of the government. For two years, this agreement and Article 7 in the agreement were sufficient because they politically supported HDZ authorities in Opatija. Three or four months after the lost elections and the lost positions of HANFA issue a decision on the takeover. And at the prices of two and a half years ago when they were very high and they made it possible to speculate and do damage. Yes, it's the work of HANFA, it's the work of Mr. Samodol. But it's not the end. The court proceedings, the agreement, the termination of the agreement, and again the Government of the Republic of Croatia finally to stop the damage, stop that delay in Libya from re-contracting now with the fund, the SM holding seems to me, I don't even know what their name is anymore. I'd say a contract so no harm can be done to whom right, who wrong. But again, it was concluded by the government. Now I'm going back to our responsibility. Realising that the government is preparing a contract, that there is this strange solution of Mr. Samodol, which is politically accounted for, which is influenced by the government because it has not brought anything for two years, and then it has also brought a solution to the position of speculators on the stock market, then we propose here a law supplementing the Law on takeover with a request for retrograde action. And of course, most reject that law. And what do we have today? Today we have a situation for you that the government has broken the 2007 contract and that with the goodwill of Mr. Remaining municipalities and the city of Opatija will receive these 25% shares plus one share. Therefore, we perform the entire circus in Croatia. But unfortunately, I would say the good will of Ostoja, the government, the termination of the contract, the conclusion of a second contract of those 25% does not satisfy the small shareholders, who these small shareholders consider to have been played. They are. Little stockholders were played by Mr. Samodol. It's court proceedings. They are looking for a 2007 takeover as Mr. Samodol issued the first solution. Of course we don't know if this takeover will be. Mr. Samodol is silent again so you don't know if the termination of the contract is okay or Opatija still has to take over, although there is no contract of 25 plus one with... We're creating a circus. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're creating problems for small shareholders. We are creating court proceedings and there is evidence on this example of action proven when acting, when a warrant and a moment from the Government is given, when it wants to be dealt with by political inexperiences, and all to the harm of the Republic of Croatia and small shareholders. And small shareholders are looking for answers today, but there is no Mr. Samodol and the Agency to tell those small shareholders what we are going to do now with these last games that have been given to us after this agreement by the Government of the Republic and Mr. Ostoja. Yeah, that's our agency. On major issues that have been conflicting local and regional self-government with power for 20 years. Problems are slowly solved, but then the agency opens up these problems. Small shareholders are dissatisfied, damaged, court will seek their own dispute. It's the Agency's fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58923	Thank you. One correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58924	Mr. Vice President, counterpart Linic said that HANFA acted directly under political pressure in the case of Liburnia and the city of Opatija. Well, if that were true, then she would have acted according to the ministry, the Ministry of Finance's decision. On the contrary, HANFA issued a solution contrary to the Ministry of Finance's opinion. But the whole problem is that the PIFs of those years abused their position and instead of closed investment funds they moved into holding companies, holding companies without any legal basis, and no one raised that question until today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58925	The president of the management of HANFA, Ante Samodol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58926	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The answer to Agent Linic. Therefore, the commitment of the city of Opatija was made under the Act on the takeover of stock companies, not on the basis of the solution of the HANFA. Our solution is declarative. The law on takeover, which is on the way in line with the European Union Directive, says anyone who crosses 25% plus one share must publish a takeover bid. Secondly, we gave the opinion to Mr. Muzur that as soon as he got it, he would have to make an offer. There is no political pressure nor would it ever bring any policy-friendly solution, because if I were to do so, I would do so in the opinion of the Ministry of Finance and say that this is the original acquisition. Of course it's not about the original acquisition. It's about the year 2007. We waited two years because they lasted the Administrative Court. I can't influence the procedure before the Administrative Court. And most importantly, we're the only institution in this country that's made a recapitulation of the transfer of the division of companies that were formed after the PIFs that passed on, divided like amoebe, transferred property from one to the other. Why? Because 2002 was allowed to turn the PIFs into closed funds, and then without any legal basis holding the company, and who was in power then? You, Mr. Linic, you, Mr. Representative. Please, so you've allowed it, and now you're asking me to correct the historical injustice, so which was done then because it's allowed to avoid the regulation of the Securities Commission. Today, so he's not a surveillance entity for any holding company. I can't correct historical injustices, but also small shareholders must be aware that we'll do all the analysis. We've published an agreement that doesn't have one or two figures on the way. We'll also announce the art. We're asking that the art be done so that we can protect the very small shareholders. No one in this country can influence me. By the way, I'm not a member of any party, not a single member of my administration. The question is I ask you when my mandate expires or I am relieved of who will come and be members of the management of HANFA's political appointments. I've never been a member of a party in my life, so you've accused Mr. Linic and I and HANFA of being a criminal, so you said, and HANFA committed a crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58927	Correction, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58928	Once again, Article 1 of the Treaty states that this is a direct acquisition and settlement of judicial disputes arising from the formation of shareholder disputes. This has been established by the parties, and the law does not oblige such direct acquisition. That's number one, and that's where I'm correcting the incorrect quote, so that's direct. And number two, you may have told Muzure, but you didn't give Muzure a solution. You didn't betray him. And that's your negative attitude and political influence.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58929	Comrade Linic, this is not a correction, this is a comment. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58930	Well, the correction, Mr. Samodol said that Muzuru had told him. Mr. Muzur's solution was not issued because he was a representative of the HDZ. The solution was issued only when Muzur was removed and the citizens chose another. It's a political influence.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58931	Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58932	Dear Vice President, esteemed representatives of HANFA. This report may, as such, receive support, however, cannot be supported by the work of HANFA for the period during which the report is submitted. I'm going to try to talk about a completely different aspect here, so it's either big affairs or big players or big amounts. I will ask here what HANFA has done for the large number of small shareholders that exist in the Republic of Croatia. So in my opinion, and I am personally a small shareholder of one company in Croatia, in which I bought shares in conversion, HANFA should provide or create security for all financial market participants regardless of the size of players. So it's for that stockholder who owns one of the only shares of a certain company. And what did HANFA do about it? For example, several predecessors spoke about the Spice affair. I really just like them think that HANFA missed out on doing everything she could, to prevent the Spice affair from coming, or to prevent that she doesn't have such a big negative effect as she does. So as said in '95. I think corporate bonds have been issued, the prospectus for corporate bonds has been delivered for approval in HANFA, the HANFA has seen exactly what to spend it in, the HANFA has seen exactly what to invest money collected from corporate bonds in, because the prospectus says what money from corporate bonds will be spent in. Afterwards, this money was transferred to the deposit of a banking institution and served as a guarantee, i.e. as a deposit for the issue of a loan. There is a record of this in the company's report, in the annual report, i.e. in the audit report, which was also submitted to all financial market participants, stock exchanges, and HANFAs, and so it was also known to the stock exchange and HANFAs, and this should have already been a signal of what was happening with the money collected on the financial market that was not purposefully spent and for which additional new costs are generated, as a commission and bank and brokerage houses are paid again. And while this was visible in the financial reports, what happens after those shares leave the market, the financial market of the Republic of Croatia no longer has any evidence or reports. And there was supposed to be a lamp that was supposed to go on in HANFA, and HANFA was supposed to monitor the participants of these transactions, in particular the brokerage house that did this, and then ask the company for an explanation of what is happening significantly in society, because it is about large amounts of money and it is about a large share of the capital of that company, the company, because it does not run through 10% of the shares of Podravka throughout the year. However, it was missed, and then it really seems to me that last year, HANFA almost did not read Croatian media, because it would probably have asked some of the questions, the ones that were asked by Croatian media, of how some of the money transfers were possible, how stocks could be re-drawn, who traded there with privileged information. And now we come to small shareholders. We had a situation that this inefficient Security Exchange Commission from America launched a major investigation at Reebok, and even accused a lady from Croatia that she had achieved a significant benefit from trading those shares. Now that the HANFA was not in the interest of seeing why at some point the price of Podravka Bilda shares was rising and there was no reason for that, and at some other times when, for example, the market increased the price of Podravka shares. As we were then protecting small shareholders, and Podravka has about 24 thousand small shareholders, how much price sensitive information was used by a small number of financial market participants to make significant contributions on Podravka's shares, at the expense of those who simply didn't know or didn't have it. And even more so with the fatherly shares were traded at the moment when, the stock price was in Zenit, that only the day two behind that price shares would drastically fall from 520 to about 300 or 350. It wasn't even enough signal to look at something and see something. Now it's an affair we know about, it's an affair that came out. I expected that in this report, HANFA would at least say something about this affair, that it would simply show what happened, or describe what happened in 2009 when the affair was discovered. But with a large number of other companies operating in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, where small shareholders invested part of their hard-earned salaries or savings in those societies, where they wanted to be co-owners of the companies they worked in, who created. How come we don't have any protection from these little shareholders here? Today, Kamenskog workers walk the streets of Zagreb, strike hunger to exercise their right to pay their wages. Earned wages, hard-earned salaries. So why doesn't someone explain how someone became the owner of Kamensky and whether they are also small shareholders in Kamenskog d.d. damaged in all these major transactions. And who had price sensitive information when trading with those stocks? Imagine in one market that is large, which is regulated, which has a tradition is a whole number of accusations and cases in which these price sensitive information is really going on. We have nothing in Croatia. We are better, HANFA is better than SEC, Zagreb Stock Exchange is better than Wall Street, and players acting on the financial market are more moral than any broker in America and Europe. Come on! Our market is fine until it's found out it's not good. Our market was excellent until the affairs on that market were discovered and it would be good until other affairs were discovered. HANFA and predecessor of the Securities Commission have been operating for more than a decade. And we don't have a single example to protect this very small shareholder and precisely because the director or any other big player on the financial market achieved income or earnings that he didn't need. And if we can talk about pressure, then even more pressure on the HANFA is going on on the financial market, maybe, making a small number of big players on the financial market than anyone else. They regulate the market, they decide when a share will be a winner, and when a loser does all that only and exclusively on the burden of small shareholders or on the burden of society. Because a shareholder also has an obligation to take care of the interests of society, not of his own personal interest and of his own personal gain. We don't have a single lawsuit in Croatia where society or some regulator sues some shareholder that he worked at the expense of society because he traded shares of that society and damaged that society. We just don't have those kind of lawsuits. I'm sorry! But is that possible? It's theoretically impossible, because if it were possible, we wouldn't have what we have from conversion. Well, we wouldn't have so many stock companies that have failed, we wouldn't have so many stock companies that the owners have separated from the property, sold the property, and then let the stock company go bankrupt and otherwise achieved property benefits. And that didn't just happen until I don't know '97. when the Securities Commission has created it, it is still happening today. And HANFA isn't just here to take care of possibly big players, it has to protect everyone, even the smallest participant in the market, and they're small shareholders. We must restore faith to the citizens of Croatia to pay to invest in securities on the Croatian market and that there is a regulator that will protect them, which will ensure that it is transparent, public and clear reporting of companies, but also that these reports are credible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58933	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58934	You have told your colleague Mršić that there is no example of any lawsuit to protect the interests of a small shareholder and where the damage to society has been done. That's not true. 34 criminal charges were filed by HANFA precisely against such perpetrators. As for the statement that HANFA was founded for the non-prevention of the sale of shares in the SPICE affair, I must say that the first sale was carried out by the Podravka administration when she bought shares from the French and that was as vaults. Those vaults were paid by FIMA, and later they transferred the contract to FIMA and Franck directly. And the second part was when the chairman of the Supervisory Board as chairman of the Management of the Bank of Business signed a contract with himself, so the Bank of Commerce sold the shares. That's not the jurisdiction of HANFA. And in this second part, a criminal procedure is being conducted, so there is no report on the Podravka takeover procedure in HANFA.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58935	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Attorney Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58936	Well, here's a colleague, Mršić, well warned, the problem is that in this case, Podravka HANFA has not responded for four years. And you can't cloud reality and twist facts when the reaction is four years late in that case. And that's the problem we're warning you about and the one you've turned on. The trust of the people in the institutions of this country. This trust does not exist, trust in HANFA does not exist or can be secured, and it does not exist precisely because HANFA has not fulfilled its role and manages it only by the president of the administration, and not by the law of the Council of HANFA which has not been made. And in such conditions, it is no wonder that the decisions they have for the purpose of discretionary, safeguarding one, non-compliance in certain cases, as was the case in the case of Podravka. And that's what we have to put our trust in the institutions, and the only way to do it is to respect the laws. The law will be respected at the moment when the Council of HANFA is established.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58937	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58938	Well, you're absolutely right, colleague Bernardic. So big players always take care of themselves. They have enough money, enough infrastructure and them, which is, it shows on the Croatian market, is not an interest or socially responsible business, nor a business for the benefit of society, nor a business for the benefit of the community, but a realisation of his own profit, which is what counterpart Maric was talking about. Because those who used to sit on the Supervisory Board of the Podravka Maha worked to ensure their banks' credit ratings and thus to be maximum protected because they were provided with what was in that Podravka to make sure that Podravka would be able to repay those loans. But the regulators established by the state are here to protect the interests of all market participants regardless of size. We have good laws, laws are in line with EU directives, it is only a matter of whether they are respected. Because it is possible for a company to issue an annual report, the auditor to give an opinion on this annual report, and today it is shown that this report has been completely incorrect because all important data and all relevant price information from the period for which the report was submitted and for that year the company receives a reward for transparent business and receives strong rewards for the quality of the annual report submitted to the financial market. Such a way of protecting investor interests has led to the destruction of small shareholders who created jobs and their hard-earned savings and wages paying and buying shares to preserve their jobs. Today they have no jobs, no shares, and some others are very rich without paying any taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58939	And Mr. Representative Gordan Maras, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58940	Thank you very much. In your debate and replica, you have now said one fact, and that is how it is possible for someone to get a positive report and then to consolidate such an affair as it came out of Podravka. Well it's also as possible as you'll get HANFA support here in the Parliament. It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter whether you're doing it properly, it doesn't matter if you're serving the one who set you up. And it doesn't matter if you're a member of a party. Even when you point it out in front of the Croatian Parliament as your recommendation as your quality team it is more suspicious. Well, it would have been fairer, Mr. Samodol, if you had said that I was prone to the former Prime Minister, he brought me to HANFA, and I was working on his warrant, and not now you're talking here as if you were working in the interest of those you were supposed to work for, which is why, based on this supposedly quality work, there was an affair of Podravka, the sale of INA in the way it happened, and at the end of the day, there was no significant sanction or affair discovered by HANFA except what was known through the media that people were buying shares and packages more than they should have. These are cosmetic affairs, what you could discover and prevent, unfortunately you did not prevent only because you worked in the interest of someone, and this someone unfortunately is no longer in power, fortunately the Croatian people and soon the HANFA will only work when those who are more responsible are setting up people who will work in the interest of those for whom they should work and not in the interest of the narrow circle of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58941	Final review, president of the HANFA administration, Mr. Ante Samodol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58942	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll start at the end, Mr. Maras I really didn't mean here to talk about my political belongings or not belongings, but you raised the question of my responsibility and my subjection for belonging to a foreigner. I'm undermining, I didn't mean to talk about it, I'm stressing I didn't, because you're implying that it's very important for my position and my job. It's not. Secondly, as far as small shareholders and concerns are concerned, Mr. HANFA is not a court, our concern is best represented in 368 criminal charges and 34 criminal charges, have you read that someone has been convicted? HANFA is not a court, HANFA can't order anyone to convict anyone. So it's a complete replacement of the thesis in the role and responsibilities of HANFA. As for Mr Linic, unfortunately he is gone but we cannot and will not make any solution here until the court annuls the agreement. I repeat, let the court annul the agreement between the HFP and the City of Opatija. And now I'm going to go in line, as far as Mr. Caine and Liburnia are concerned, I'm going to repeat that we've only been working here under the law, and when someone gets 25% plus one share has to publish an offer to take over, our solution is declarative. The law was in force when shares were acquired and this is exactly what we protect small shareholders, because the law on taking over nobody else protects but small shareholders. The one who gets 25% plus one has to make an offer just because of the small shareholders. As far as pension companies are concerned, you've been talking about pension societies, not pension funds. So pension funds are a whole different story. As for the number of HANFA employees, we, when we signed the agreement and closed Chapter 9. Financial services, we have committed ourselves to the European Commission's administrative capacity. We must guarantee the performance of all our supervisory functions. And HANFA doesn't have any extra employees, though. We have 280 surveillance entities, 10 laws under HANFA's control. As for Mr Bernardic, Mr Bernardić has no information you say in our report, find me anywhere in the world an annual report from our agency that publishes the records. No regulator shall publish any records of this, publish statistics, measures taken and regulation. As far as the advice is concerned, you repeat the lie over and over again, HANFA has advice that works, but the only true advice does not make any decisions he is an advisory body. The administration makes decisions, all decisions are taken unanimously, the advice works and this period when it has not worked he does not have any executive authority. Secondly, as far as the personnel are concerned, the cash flow is exactly what I answered to Mr. Cain. As far as the Podravka affair is concerned, please, HANFA is the only institution that responded to the newspaper's local paper at the end of 2007 and gave an analysis of the acquisition of 10.64% of shares. This is where our jurisdiction has ceased because Podravka is not a surveillance entity of HANFA, please Podravka has his own supervisory board, has a congregation, has an annual report and has an auditor. So the auditor made an audit, the assembly adopted the report and, in fact, the 2006 annual report said there was an option to those stocks, but what's most important for us, so neither Podravka nor FIMA groups are the surveillance entities of HANFA, we sent our report to the DORH, and we had no knowledge until 2009 when we reopened the surveillance. I can't talk about the details that went on, because I'm one of the witnesses and the procedure is going on. So, the indictment was filed, why, when you were so zealously thinking why you didn't set up a committee in the House, you might want to discuss it more precisely. The indictment was filed only recently. Secondly, as far as property, leasing and factoring Mr. Bernardić, leasing is currently replacing the thesis with you. We insist that potential losses must be reserved, we regulator, so these losses are not of good will to leasing societies and we have ordered that they be recapitalised, including those mentioned by society. So, reservations based on our request. As for Mr. Maras, so I'll repeat the story, we've already responded to the fact that I'm under political pressure. I've never made decisions under political pressure. As for taxation of capital, I will not comment on it but given the daily turnover of less than 20 million kuna, it is clear what any capital market tax would do. As far as leasing control is concerned, I've already answered for HYPO leasing. As far as Podravka is concerned, I've already answered, as far as INA is concerned, this is very important, so MOL made a voluntary offer, it wasn't necessarily an offer. Every play with those shares was speculation, but speculation is not a crime, but manipulation is. But you must know the elemental categories and the Capital Market Act. So everyone could have speculated, and he shouldn't have manipulated. And when MOL made a voluntary offer, it wasn't binding. So the difference between binding and voluntary. As for the HANFA financial reports, so we send our financial report to the State Audit, we send it to the Ministry of Finance, but I say the most important thing is to send it to the State Audit. All items listed inside are listed. My salary is £16,800, the 2009 management team was €24,000, 800. No car has been purchased except for the education of people, except for the payment of postgraduate studies. We did not invest in any space representatively or in our furniture. So everything is focused on surveillance entities. As for the fees we charge, we haven't changed our fees but we've released the industry twice and now we've released the last quarter for 7 million kuna industry, too. So there's no pressure on the industry. Secondly, as far as the broker is concerned, only 84 thousand kn was charged to the broker, and our income for 2009 was $42 million. Less than one pomegranate. So there's absolutely no pressure on the capital market as far as our fees are concerned. As for Mr. Koracevic, I can only repeat that Mr. Koracevic has been repeated over the past year on the basis of a pamphlet of a former member of the administration repeating charges. HANFA never paid 80 grand for my doctorate, never paid. I'll doctor one day, I actually wrote two books, the only ones in Croatia about investment funds, no one else wrote. That's what I mastered 20 years ago, Mr. Bernardic. So, I have the right to doctor it, but I haven't gotten the conditions yet. But HANFA didn't pay for it. So, the lie, I'm sorry there's no Mr. Korakevic. So, on the other hand, as far as the fee HANFA charges, Mr. Koracevic pointed out, so I've already answered, I'm sorry he's gone, so the man I've known for 20 years. And in the end, I mean, I've never retired a single firm in my life. That's my message to MP Korajevic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58943	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations, please, indeed, be corrections to incorrect allegations rather than controversy. First Mr. Zastavnik Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58944	So I'm correcting Mr. Samodol's incorrect claim that HANFA is not here to judge. It's not that. But it is to warn. You should have done something suspicious every time. Be a patient colleague, so don't be nervous. A little truth never hurts. So you had to always warn or ask for an explanation when there was something suspicious. For example, when he's a colleague, Vitkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58945	That's not the correction of my colleague Mršić, please. It's not a correction. You're saying what she was supposed to do, suggestions. Please be kind.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58946	I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that HANFA couldn't do anything in Podravka. And it is incorrect that Mr. Samodol sought Mr. Vitkovic's explanation when Vitkovic said that the stock price should be a thousand kuna, but that he never asked the president of the administration, the previous management presidents, what is happening with Podravka shares, which are price sensitive information that they do not have. Why they deposited such huge funds somewhere they shouldn't have, etc., about which much more was written in Croatian media than one banal sentence about how much to buy shares. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58947	Mr. Representative Dabor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58948	Mr. Vice President, in a series of incorrect allegations, I'm going to set some aside. You said there's no report in the world that contains part of the regulation of the cash flow reports, the things we've been looking for. It's just not true. It exists in the world. A second incorrect quote. Dear Vice President, here, if I may.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58949	Please be my guest. Please, peace. Peace, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58950	The second incorrect claim that HANFA had nothing to do with the supervision of financial transactions in the case of Podravka. It's simply incorrect. HANFA had to have connections, and she didn't. And that's the problem. And the third incorrect allegation you said, you twisted the thesis, that you had ordered the recapitalisation of leasing. So our question is how is it possible to do business with a billion kn loss above the capital and last thing, I don't know why you've informed me about your master's work on investment funds, specifically me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58951	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58952	... Croatian privatisations and conversions realized that Croatia was not stolen enough through these laws and institutes, and then they designed the so-called coupon privatisation. And through that coupon privatisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58953	What are you doing correcting my colleague Cain?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58954	I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58955	And you won't get to it, but you have to say it now, so don't. You've been in these benches for many, many years now, you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58956	And then they came up with this coupon privatisation, and through that form, they came up with a hotel sector between... and Lebanon.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58957	There you go. Thank you very much. And Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Thank you very much. You're out of time. ... I didn't take your word. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Here you go, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58958	Give me back my time to the beginning, Vice President. I'll correct the incorrect allegations where Mr. Samodol said he had no opportunity to control the Podravka. I will warn him of the HANFA Act adopted on 28.11.2005 in Article 15(2): "I am monitoring the operations of the stock exchanges and regulated public markets, authorised companies and issuers of securities", Mr Samodol. So you were able to control Podravka, unfortunately you didn't, and that's why the Spice affair took place.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58959	I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58960	We move to the Annual Report of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency for 2009. Proposer Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting the conclusion which reads: "The Annual Report of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency for 2009 is accepted". Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The conclusion was reached by a majority of 76 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 33 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58961	We move to the next item - Report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2009 is submitted by the Croatian Pension Insurance Office which submitted this report on the basis of Articles 129 and 139. Pension Insurance Act. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Labour and Social Partnership, Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Croatian Pension Insurance Institute Director Mile Rukavina will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58962	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of this House. The 2009 report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which is being discussed today in this House, shows in our opinion that, as far as the institution is concerned, there is a continued trend in good business results. In fact, a slightly larger range of work than in the previous reporting period we have done with a smaller number of employees for nearly 160 employees using maximum internal reserves and we can say that we have done all the key jobs within the set deadlines and the planned dynamics. I'd say about this report, about what's important, and that's the state of the pension insurance system that paints it, that it's pictured by four key parameters. And these are the share of expenditure means for pensions, for pension insurance in gross domestic product, the ratio between the number of insurance and pensioners, the increase in the number of new pensioners and the level of pension compared to the salary. As for the first parameter in the office, we mean, of course, the ratio of pensioners and insurance companies, a million and 173 thousand 814 pensioners and a million and 530 thousand 233 insurance companies were recorded in the office on December 31st 2009, which gives us a 1:1.30 ratio. However, I would just like to say that since 2009 when we look practically from the start of the reform, we have had a slight but positive trend as regards this ratio that has been disrupted over the last two years. As for the second parameter, it's the relationship between retirement and salary, I'll give you a few details. The average pension achieved under the Retirement Insurance Act for December 2009, of course reduced by tax, tax and special tax, was 2169.32 kuna, which is slightly less than 2% more than in the previous reporting period. And the average pension rate in the average net salary was 40.46%, also slightly higher than in 2008. When we talk about this relationship, we must never forget and look back at the structure of the pensioners. I would point out that in our report you saw on page 14 that these are the reasons affecting the level of pension, of course unfavorably affecting the level of pension. That's a few facts. Approximately 121 thousand pensioners or more than 10% of the total number of pensions made pensions through the application of international social insurance contracts, and these pensions with an average duration of 11 years are in an average amount of 728 kuna and, of course, these beneficiaries with this pension, our pension is also realised by the foreign insurance provider. When we look at the structure of pensioners up to 1500 kuna we also see that this structure is very unfavourable, that more than 300 thousand pensioners or 27.8% have achieved a pension with a relatively short retirement period and a low pay level of these users. I'll just mention some. For example, it's over 100,000, 104 users are using an international contract in this structure. 96,000 is the user of the lowest pension, 65,000 agricultural pensioners. Of course, in this structure there are also women who are represented in a slightly higher percentage among these pensions than among the total number of pensioners, as many as 59% of women, and we know that this is due to the fact that women are making an average and lower salary and shorter retirement internship than men. The third parameter I would say is the number of new pensioners. It is by 2.2% compared to last year and we are in 2009 the relationship system has reached 56 thousand 970 new pensions. The fourth parameter, which is the proportion of pension or pension expenditure in the gross domestic product. It is 10.53% and slightly higher than in 2008. When we look at the trend since 2000 and 2001, then we had the largest share in the gross domestic product, even 12.04%, we see that this share of pension expenditure in the gross domestic product is slowly but certainly shrinking again in this year, we think of the 2009 and 2008 reporting year again slowly growing. And for this year, I'm going to give a few reasons for this kind of growth. This is an increase in the number of pensioners, as I said by 2.2% compared to December 2008, which is the payment of an allowance to pensions made from January 1st under the Pension Insurance Act, or under the Pensions Supplement Act. I'm just going to say, for example, that in this year's report year, we paid an amount of 897 thousand 592 thousand kuna for the addition and that this supplement was used by more than 237 thousand users. Let me remind you, we know that in November 2007, we began to pay an allowance to pensions made in '99. Year, 4% in '99. Year, so teaching up to 27% on pensions since 1.1.2010. I would refer to the total incomes and expenses of the Bureau. The total revenues of the Institute amounted to 35 billion and 89 million kuna, spending 35 billion and 72 million kuna. As far as we're concerned, we have two, two sources of income, two key sources. These are, of course, revenues from contributions to pension insurance and income from the state budget. As regards revenue from the contributions, they amounted to 19 million 838 million and are slightly smaller than in 2008, and as regards revenue from the budget, they are higher by 2 billion compared to 2008. In short, I would like to remind you that the budgetary commitments for an allowance of 100 kuna and 6%, the commitments for the second pillar of pensions are made under favourable conditions, for pensioners' pensions from the Homeland War, for the Pensions Act reached under the Retirement Enlargement Act in order to remove differences in pension levels achieved in different periods and for the Law on the add-on to pensions made under the Pension Insurance Act. Just the fact that 98, over 98% of our funding is used for pensions and pension incomes. Of course it's about, that the practical expenses of the Institute are set. One percent, slightly more than one percent, 1.01 refers to employee costs. In addition to pension insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity, the Institute also implements the procedures for the exercise of the right of child allowance and for December 2009 there were 213994 users of extras for children who received an allowance for 403233 children and this is less than in 2008. The children's allowance amounted to 364 kunas and 45 limes per child in 2009 and this is just more for a couple of kunas compared to 2008, and its funding was spent in 2009 by billions and 760 million. As for the work of the professional service, what marked the work of the professional service is the following few indicators. A total of 609522 pension rights requirements were addressed. Of course, I mean here both domestic insurance and foreign insurance and child benefits and early-year demands. And that's for even 9330 requests more than or 1.53 more than in 2008. From that we solved 533140 requests or 87.47% and this is 1.57 percentage points more than in 2008, and I mentioned at the beginning that we had more than 150 people in the reporting period. Now it's over 200 employees. However, better organisation of work, the effects of reconstruction have been achieved and better results have been achieved with a smaller number of employees. However, one fact I would point out. For the first time in his history, the Institute has entered legal deadlines when we talk about the current year. However, the length of the procedure burdens the work of the Institute, but of course business results. I would also point out that several things affect the length of this procedure, which is an extremely complex and long-term procedure of medical skill, and repeating the procedures for reviewing the disability assessment of the Committee for Audition, the assessment of the disability of the Ministry of the Family, the defenders and intergenerational solidarity, as well as the chronic lack and heavy burden of the experts in the Bureau. Later, we will see only in the ninth year in the reporting period which the number of findings by the witches was passed. And of course the departure of professional people from the Bureau who work directly to solve these cases, because work is both difficult and complex, and wages are low. We tried to respond to this together with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we made a move, and this is related to the amendment of the Medical Skills Regulation and it was adopted by the Government to amend and supplement in July, it entered into force on 2 July 2009. She has changed between herself and the working-legislative status of witches and we already see but we also expect that, by applying further application of the new regulation with time and in this segment of business, the results will improve further. As for the modernisation of the Bureau, I'll try very briefly. We, of course, have continued to work on the implementation of all projects related to its reconstruction compared to all the above mentioned jobs that I spoke about in the past year at the Institute. I won't talk about it too much, because every year the report mentions it and it's detailed in the report. I would just like to point out two more important things, which is that, of course, we have also done these jobs on a continuous basis, and according to the results of the Institute as an institution, we have implemented measures to increase awareness in resolving pension insurance rights requirements, that we have modernised archiving and secreting registration material. In 2009, 286000 files were excavated, and over a million and 300,000 files have been processed in the period since 2005, in May 2005 until the end of the reporting period. Of course, we also filmed this material for the needs of the administrative process and for the needs of the Institute, and during 2009, over 9 million documents were stored on the micro film medium, and all of this would be needed for the introduction of an extremely valuable project in the Institute and I would briefly refer to it and another project, which is the electronic system of document management, which has been produced in the Institute since May, truth as a pilot project in 2009 and was introduced into services in Split and in the Central Service of the Implementation of International Social Insurance Contracts, and these projects cover the basic processes. I repeat the basic process, not a small part of the requirement for the recognition of the right to temporary retirement, to retirement, to family pension after the death of an active insurance company, and in the second phase of the project which has also been completed, this project has been extended to other rights, which are disability pensions, family pensions after death and the identification of the properties of insurance companies and others. This project goes on, and the first large service to be introduced, that is Zagreb where we started and we believe that in the first quarter of 2011 this project will also end in this area service, thus more than 50% of our operations would be covered by this project. In its essence, it means further development of institutions, i.e. excluding the paper form of operations where possible, in all business processes of the institute. It means that the newly received documentation, but also which is extremely valuable and existing and documentation from the existing file and existing registration material to be scanned, enters into the scan form, in electronic form into the system continue to carry out the activities provided for in the business processes. I will only briefly mention one valuable project, one large and two small, that is, a project of automation and informing medical skills, which has also been completed in production since 1 January 2009. In its essence, it means that we have created one unique database of medical skills, that a more efficient system of control is set up, means the permanent preservation of all findings and opinions of authorised witches in electronic form, the automation of findings and opinions of authorised witches and connecting with all existing databases in the office, and connecting with external users. I must also point out because it is important that, in connection with the implementation of the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, where we have our responsibilities and our jobs, we also let the automatic notification to doctors of general practice in HZZO be produced on 1 June for better communication and reduction of the procedure, for the application of Article 35. The mandatory health insurance law, and since 14 July we are also, I am also speaking about 2009 and it is also possible by automatically sending a memo to the selected primary healthcare doctor from that database, which reduces much of the process. You know that by law, the Bureau would be obliged to pay for a penalty unless it was completed within 30 days. And that information that I mentioned at the beginning, which is that during 2009, the experts, the authorised experts of the institute, brought over 50 thousand to the medical skills database, 50 thousand to 680 results and opinions, and the expert commission for reviewing the findings and opinions of disability, using the 2009 database, brought a total of 13 thousand to 373 results and opinions. It is important to note that in the third phase, of course what the situation is and in other institutions these projects serve to connect with all related institutions from ministries, institutions and other institutions in the Republic of Croatia, as regards the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Short on the portfolio. The part managed by the Croatian Privatisation Fund and which has now fully crossed, you know it yourself in this year in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Privatisation Fund in 2009 was reduced, the nominal value of the portfolio for 813 thousand 502 kuna and the portfolio situation was reduced to 31.12.2009, at the nominal value of 3 billion 126 million 525 000 and 490 kuna, the second part of the portfolio managed by the Croatian Pension Investment Society, only a few notes that in 2009 MID earned a net profit of 13 million and 300 thousand kuna, and the capital fund achieved a realised profit of 43 million kuna, and the unrealised profit of 32 million and 937 thousand kuna, and after the fall of the assets of the fund in 2008, and here, and then it was the first time since the draft fund, in 2009 it increased the value of the funds by 42% and 42%, respectively. It's final. I would say that we are in the office with all the difficulties, with all the problems we believe that we have achieved a good result, I am talking about the work of the institution, not of course about the state of the pension insurance system, and that is also an incentive for us to continue implementing the measures we have adopted, to continuously improve all our segments of business. We are particularly pleased with the fact that improved communication between the institutions and our service users, which is also evident in the further reduction of the number of complaints on the work of the Institute, both the complaints addressed to the Institute and the Ombudsman, and this is the result, above all, of our efforts to decide, primarily, on the requirements for the exercise of pension insurance rights and allowances in the legal manner and in the prescribed deadlines, but also to a significant extent, to contribute to this and to our projects and programmes to improve the communication and approximation of the institutions to insurance, using the rights and the general public by ensuring the rights of access to relevant information and data, and this was one of among our strategic objectives in its transformation into a modern public institution. I thank you for your attention, and I hope I haven't been too long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58963	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, Chairman of the Committee, Honored Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58964	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, Secretary of State, Director of Associates, fellow MPs. The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament held on 13 July this year at the 42nd session on the report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2009. That act was discussed by the Committee in accordance with Article 75. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In his opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that on 31.12.1009, a total of 173 000 814 pensioners were recorded in the office, and a million 530,000 233 insurance companies, which accounted for a ratio of one to 1.3. The average pension achieved under the Retirement Insurance Act for December 2009 was reduced by taxes and taxes was 2169.32 kuna, which was 1.99% higher than in the previous year and the average net salary of the average pension was 4.46%. The average retirement pension for December 2009 was 2409.73 kuna, while the average retirement pension in the average net salary for December last year meant 44.94%. In the last few years, the inflow of new pensioners has increased, and the most pronounced increase was recorded in the second half of 2009. In addition to pension insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity, the Institute implements the process of exercising the right to pay for children, implements the law on the addition to pensions made under the Pension Insurance Act, etc. During the past year, intensive work has been continued on projects related to the reconstruction and modernisation of institutions into a modern public institution and raising the quality of services provided by the Institute to its users. The members of the board in the debate supported this report with the assessment that the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute from year to year is increasingly high-quality. The debate gave an opinion on the need for a more consistent implementation of the Law on Gender Equality. Also, an opinion has been given that people with an extreme disability greater than 70% regardless of the cause of disability should have equal rights in terms of the use of Croatian highways without paying toll. After the debate, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the next conclusion and to accept the 2009 report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58965	Thank you. I have an announcement. The 38th session of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development will be held today at 14.00 a.m. in the hall "Janko Draškovića" room No. 202, the chairman of Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec's board. Does the Government Proposer want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate, but I'm also interrupting the morning session because there are clubs and club debates. The first will be after the break, so at 3:00 we continue, the distinguished representative Davorko Vidovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58966	We continue the session with the 2009 report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58967	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, respected men of interest. Let me start by saying that the SDP club will accept this report. They will accept because from year to year we get a list of very well and professionally and quality-made lists of tables, numbers and letters and images that speak of what cannot be accepted, which is the reality of the pension system in Croatia, a situation that is chronic and when we actually see that it does not only improve this situation, that it does not change for the better than that we have very serious reasons for concern because the situation is getting worse and worse. This is also witnessed by the figures in the report, including those we have heard for a little while from the Director of the Institute and which require urgent urgent and above all serious reactions of those who are obliged to care about the sustainability of this system and the users of this system primarily for our pensioners, but also for these present ones not only but also for the future. So, the workers who are going to retire are just waiting. The data that the number of insurance companies in 2008 was a million and 604,000, nearly a million 605,000, and that on 31 December 2009 there was a million and 530000 means that there was a reduction in the number of insurance companies by 4.6% compared to the year that preceded it. We'll see what happens next year when we discuss this year. So this is a frightening data, and this information can certainly not be solved from the pension system or within the pension system. That is a problem that will be long-term, I would say, perhaps in the next few years, mark the efforts of future governments. He said that the vice-proportional ease that left 80,000 people out of work, and vice-proportional to that ease would be difficult for those 80,000 people to return. So it may take a whole mandate to return to 2008 when it comes to the number of employees, and that Croatia has been missing for decades, in fact, about 400,500,000 jobs shouldn't even be talked about. In fact, all the misery of Croatian politics is reflected in this number and it has nothing to do with the current financial crisis that has hit a large part of the countries, developed countries of the world that have survived this financial crisis so that after 8 months or a year they have risen and returned to those positions without such difficult social breakdowns as this in a reduced number of insurance companies. At the same time as this drama happened, so in this already sub-employed state like ours, Croatia was reducing the number of employees, what was also not supposed to happen and what God would save me for the next year when we were doing the report for this one was even more devastating, that the number of pensioners or pensioners increased from 2.1% in 2009 compared to 2008. So he came to a million 148000 at a million 173,000 at the end of last year. When it comes to this, it is not exactly something that is entirely related or that can be solved exclusively within the pension system even though it belongs there, although it belongs there but does not just belong there. This is also a question of a whole series of measures in the field of employment, work, etc. And the Pension Insurance Office itself on their report we're talking about isn't primarily in charge. The ratio between insurance and pensioners thus came from 1.37 at the end of 2008 to 1.30. That's 5.1% worse than a year before that. Looking at the data, I think all two states of gentlemen here know better than I do that information. I think only two countries in Europe have a worse ratio than Croatia. One of these countries is unfortunately dear to me and to me the neighbouring dysfunctional Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's a dramatic piece of information. It was warned, it was a 1.4 to 1.3 ratio, as far as we've been going for 10 years. No one has actually taken seriously the problem, dealing with the problem of how to bring that ratio to that level to be minimally acceptable so that the whole system does not collapse and that society does not pull into the ambis. The peace system is the largest, largest, most extensive, most expensive social security system in most countries and within us. It absorbs 35 billion kuna of budget money. When I say the budget I mean, of course, the contributions because in this consolidated approach therefore via the Treasury 35 billion kuna is needed to pay off pensions. It is 10% slightly more than Croatia's 10% GDP or every ten kuna that is created in this country goes to pensions. For years, I have been surprised by the ease of being over such important and serious problems. This year's actually planned exports in 2010 are also around 35 billion. Why, because for the first time since the 1990s since the existence of an independent Croatian state, pensions have not been coordinated with either salaries or the cost of life or anything. On the contrary, the introduction of harrassors has been taxed and further reduced. That's the first time that's happened. So it's never been over the past 20 years that pensions have not grown at least 1% nominally if they haven't already grown realistically. This is the first time this has happened. We have a million-dollar pensioners, we have less money for them, and consequently lower pensions. When you look at the structure of these incomes, the structure of the pension by category is actually sad numbers. Sad numbers are that. The average pension rate was, say, '99. In 2001, 43% of the average salary was 45% of the average salary. Now that share in 2009 fell to 40.61% of the average salary, while the number of pensioners below that critical level of poverty today is higher than ever before in history. Up to 500 kunas 7% of pensioners, 500 to 1000 kunas 9.17%, 1,000 to 1500 12%, 1500 to 2000 22%. When this is summed up, it's over 50% of the pensioners are below 2000. We are a huge part of the population of Croatia, our fellow citizens who did not have to and should not be social cases brought to that border. And these are also frightening data, they're actually talking about our complete failure as a country where the citizens, who were looking forward to and eagerly expected them, we failed as a policy, we failed as responsible people, as a profession. We failed in every way. The peace system shows that we have not been worthy of the trust we have received from citizens over the past 20 years. Chaos rules in this system, too. Instead of improving the system, instead of one serious, serious approach to this whole serious problem we have had in the last seven years seven amendments to the Pension Insurance Act and a few other laws concerning the pension system itself, which have damaged the fat system anyway. They've damaged it further. This pension system has become a real place within these 20 years where they have been living in different ways. In the '90s, the big assets that the pension funds were paying off were, for example, for Kutline, it's some kind of synonym, general place, like self-service. That's where the companies used to get out, take, resell, return the bad shares, take the good ones. It was self-service. To the people of retirement, the Constitutional Court ruled that this was wrong, that it should not, that these money must return, seek solutions. Every generation of pensioners who went there went under the second law. Rights acquired, privileged pensions, so that's one chaos. It's a mess. It was trying to do something. So I don't turn out to be talking pro domo sua and not celebrating the government where I was minister in '99. One pension reform was carried out in the year, so the HDZ one government adopted it and the reform continued, the reform continued to take place in 2000-2003. A consensus has been reached for the pension reform, both trade unions and employers and workers, pensioners, a broad consensus. This reform was not a promise of a near, fast and good future, but it offered a superfluous system that could have had one consistency and one wholeness within itself, and that came from a real, existing state and determination of that pension system. Unfortunately, it's interrupted. In seven years, it's only been further broken down. What we just had last week at the debate is just a picture of what we're talking about. It's an emergency procedure, so it retreats, and then it's going to negotiate when something's in the process and it's under pressure. More like buying some retirement voice, now pressuring the public. So, solutions exist. Time's running out, so I have to finish. Solutions exist. In the UK, there is some kind of pension committee that brings together the most professional, most competent people and gives all governments, laborist, conservative, these, those, those, give solutions to problems within the system. Maybe it's finally time, here's the permanent prime minister says I expect good suggestions, maybe it's time we formed something like that in a relationship and started looking together for a solution, there are. I must say that my party has already completed a program, and we will be very happy to share what we have come to, which I have not talked about today, with the general public and to ask that we jointly resolve what is not resolved in the term of a government and repercussion for the next 10, 15 or 20 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58968	Thank you. Two corrections. First, Madam Representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58969	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I will correct several incorrect allegations by Mr. Vidovic, who says, quote: "the chaos of government and in this system." Next, it's a mess. Third, they tried to do something. Mr. Vidovic, I'm sorry if you haven't read it through this extensively as you have said and a quality report that significant progress has been made by the Institute and with a small number of employees has been done such a large and extensive job because it has been better managed by business processes, the skills of employees and the expenditures for employees have been reduced by an entire 8.7% as well as material expenditure by 4.4%. That's big moves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58970	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58971	Thank you very much. So it is incorrect that counterpart Vidovic said that a social consensus was reached in 2000 on the implementation or continuation of the pension reform. I can't accept that any consensus has been reached as far as the time is concerned while you were the minister to introduce an early retirement pension. This has never been accepted by social partners, although I say you now call it the same thing that we discussed when we discussed amendments and amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, you do not support it even though it was introduced just then with an explanation to prevent early retirement.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58972	HNS representative club, HSU Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58973	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Director and the Government's representatives, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have a document that allows us in some way a two-way discussion because it actually brings in itself information, data, or a report in a narrow sense on two different segments. The first is certainly when such a methodological thing is asked about the situation in the pension insurance system, and the second is the issue of the work of the Institute. In this sense, it is necessary to be clear and I would say here and correct and say that not only in the past year but also in several recent years, the Institute has made very envious movements in its functioning and that the Institute is one of the few bodies with public powers which is regularly in its report in a very positive light mentioning the Public Advocate. Do we know that the system of the Institute is actually one of the very important addresses addressed by people who are socially viewed in a kind of depressed position. So those who are pre-retired, those who realize, who are in the process of issuing a solution and those who are, therefore, in the pension system itself. So, one very sensitive space. Then it is very important how the Institute functions not only as a professional structure but also as a service of citizens. In this sense, you can see not only from this report, but also from the practice that the Institute is doing well, that the Institute deserves high grades for its operation, but also for the rationally set business. In this regard, the Director and his fellow congratulators should be congratulated in such a situation at all. The second element of this positive story is the fact that the Institute owns one human, I would say intellectual capital, which is extremely envious of other bodies with public authority in Croatia. In fact, experts acting as part of the Institute are certainly very dedicated in their work and can be assessed as people with whom the executive authority should primarily be more involved than just calculating but also cooperating. It seems to me that I will not say anything about this capital at all, but that it is too little to consult it and that these changes that my colleague Vidovic has spoken about in the past seven years, and especially this latest maneuver over the amendments and addition of the Pension System Act, say that too little consultation of the professional capital, human capital, the intellectual capital that exists in the Bureau. It seems to me that the Institute is a place, perhaps it is a kind of criticism to the Institute itself in which it would be worth much more intensive, but also more proactive, and perhaps more aggressively to the public to think about new solutions which would aim to resuscitate existing opportunities in the pension system, i.e. a formulation of some solutions that we can probably produce within some pension committee that fellow Vidovic spoke of on behalf of the SDP. But I'm sure that in an existing circle of scientific, therefore very well-funded people, quality and good ideas can be formulated at the Pension Insurance Office. The second part of the story, of course, is the state of the system itself. There was a word called "atrocious." I think it's not just chaotic, it's alarming. Namely, the tables that we have received in this Report but also the tables that are regularly published by the analytical bulletin of the Croatian Employment Institute for several years already show that the situation is extremely difficult and that, of course, it is the reflection of the situation in the economy, but reflection and many other circumstances, which are in many respects of politics or development policies, and there is no way that the Government can escape any of its responsibilities. Let's look at the basic data that says that the relationship, so retired and employees, is now somewhere at 1:1,29. So, worse than he was 31.12 last year. This relationship can already be significantly damaged within 15 or 20 days, and by the end of the year in particular. Because now is the time, the end of September and the beginning of October when seasonal employees return to the stock market. I also warn that the process of issuing new solutions to all those who have feared the new law is in progress and we can very easily see that by the end of this year this relationship with 1:1,29 dramatically falls to 1.25. This is the historical lowest possible ratio of the number of retired and employed. No economy can stand that kind of pressure. But it's not just about whether the government has a proactive employment policy. Because if we hired all 300,000 people who were unemployed, all 300,000 of us still wouldn't get to that level 1:2. For us, it would be for the employment level of a working-age population, for example. The Netherlands, besides 300 thousand unemployed, is worth hiring at least 4 hundred thousand other people we don't have, who don't live in Croatia. So we need to know in the beginning that the structure of the population is such that in the long term it endangers the complete system, and not only the pension insurance system, but under a large questionnaire puts all our long-term efforts, whether these, whether the next governments on economic development. It is also obvious according to the structure of the unemployed, and according to the share of the funds intended to settle liabilities in the pension system in relation to GDP and all other parameters, that the situation is very bad, and that the question that is relevant for all of us who are working today is whether or not we will have any pension when we come into a position to submit our request to the Bureau to issue us a decision on the level of pension. That is therefore an extremely important question. What will happen when Croatia enters the European Union? Are we aware that the freedom of movement of people will in some way also reflect on Croatia and in a way that we will probably have a certain number of qualified personnel going to other European Union countries and that this will happen very quickly to us. It may not happen to us as drastically as it did in Poland when almost in one wave the country set about 6 hundred thousand highly educated people, or people who were competitive in the European labour market, might not have happened to us that Estonia had no labour force at all in trade and that it had to come back from the retirement of people in order for the commercial service to work at all. So what happened to the Czechs may not happen to us, but it would certainly be extremely naive to close our eyes to reality that a certain number of people will look for better working conditions in another European Union country. Because however we turn around, the data provided by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, but also by my court by the Croatian Employment Service, show that Croatia, when combined with all other countries, especially the Member States of the European Union, and even when combined with the average of the European Union, stands very badly, in many, many segments. From that percentage of employment of a working-age population to all other parameters. If we look at the situation in our neighbouring country, so not directly, not quite, but certainly next-door Austria, the percentage of employment in the population aged 15 to 64 fell by 0.5% in 2009, but imagine even 71.6%. We have 56.6. The situation is not much better, even worse perhaps in Hungary, but it can compensate, because we know that Hungary is an intensive agricultural country, where a very large number of families compensate for their social position, in fact by agricultural activity. We can find such examples more, but what we're interested in is how Denmark managed to be at 75.7 while we're at 56.6. It may sound boring to someone, but we at the HNS and HSU clubs keep talking about the security flex. Denmark is the homeland of the security flashes. Can we think that way? It is difficult to compare with Sweden, of course, other economies, it is another structure of the economy, but wherever we can find a good and smart model, it would not be bad to look it in the eye, rather than turn its head from it, because the issue of political responsibility is raised, the question of what development policy is on the one hand, and on the other hand the responsibility of a political elite that will finally create an atmosphere where there will be no problem, where a new value will actually be established, a new social value under which it will be primarily cost-effective. So how to find a model of development policy that will change the current situation, in a way that will stimulate people to live off their work, not conditionally on someone else's account. It is not something that can be solved by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, it is not something that can be resolved by the amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, it is primarily a matter of political courage and if you want the very vision and willingness of the Government, because it is it that creates the conditions of economic development. In this regard, I would like to, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired Party club, take advantage of this opportunity to point out that the system needs serious changes, serious reflections, express satisfaction with this report and announce that we will support the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58974	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58975	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You said from Poland at the time of your entry into the European Union, so when Poland joined the European Union, about 6 hundred thousand highly educated people, Polish people, therefore, went to the European Union, which with bread and for the safety of what you say about those pensions. Well, you could also say, therefore, that in Croatia, about 10,000 young people with higher education and secondary expertise go abroad annually, not to return, but almost forever. So if we compare the size of Poland and the number of inhabitants of Poland and Croatia, then it is an even more drastic example, and to the detriment of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58976	It's like a correction. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58977	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, distinguished gentlemen of the parliament. Yes, I agree with Goran that the problem is almost insolvent when it comes to pensions. It's all tied up, understandably, with these jobs. In 2009, Croatia lost 94 000 jobs. Out of that number, out of those 94 grand in retirement, 56 grand in 970 went away. Of these, 28 649 were aged and premature, 13 139 disabled and 15 182 from a family pension or an increase from 2008 by 4.75%. So, 4.75% more than years ago, it went into retirement. How long will it be this year, with these retirement games I don't know, but I know by the 20th of this month, it seems to me that, exactly, in the early retirement period, 1 994 people went away. I'm sure it's over 20 grand, and I don't know maybe 23, 24 grand. And I agree, all those who say that this very economic situation is the story of all the stories of our pension system. Everyone, here's what they like to say is that in us there's a worker-retired 1 to 1.3. By the end of 2011, I'm afraid that ratio will be 1 to 1.27. We in Istria have about 53,000 pensioners, about 90,000 and some jobs. That ratio is 1 to 1, 7, 1.8. And yet, on the other hand, we just spoke in some activities all along and that you will, with some 6 thousand unemployed, you can't reach the workers. In the 12th month, we're going to have a brother to his brother 300 thousand unemployed this year. On today, there are about 290 thousand people out there. A month ago exactly 285 840, that last piece of information. And in 4, 5 months, so somewhere out there... In 2011, I keep mentioning it will be at least 330 thousand unemployed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we can expect less pay, no matter what the election goes, lower salary rights, the budget we know is too tense to be saved from year to year by new... these bonds and so we will welcome these elections and then all over again. However, I will try to pull one parallel between Croatia and some other countries, European clear. Unfortunately, I don't have Austria. First of all, the ratio of the number of pensioners and employees in Europe. Ireland has a ratio of 1 pensioner 3.57 workers, Cyprus 1 to 3.33. And in Holland, one to three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, In Spain, which is in deep crisis 1 to 2.63, Malta 1 to 2.33. But somehow to get a little closer to us, in Slovakia this ratio is 1 to 2, in France 1 to 1.82, in the Czech Republic 1 to 1.79 as much as in Estonia and Finland. So Finland, one of the most likely orderly, is to corrupt us, not as many of us as these neighbors through Patria, the ratio is 1 to 1.79. In Slovenia, the proportion of workers – pensioners is 1 to 1.69, in Germany 1 to 1.61, in Italy 1 to 1.49, in us 1 to 3. The average retirement age in Croatia is 59.9 years. Underneath us, let's say the younger ones retire to the French at 59.3 years old. The Czechs are here at 60.6 years old, Italy at 60.8 years old, Denmark at 61.3 years old, the European average is 61.3. So we're not God knows how far away from that European average that just says that there's a problem with others when it comes to pension insurance. Unfortunately, I do not have comparisons in GDP, but surely Croatia does not spend a greater percentage of GDP than it does in these countries that I mention. The problem is that in 2006, we spent 11.3% of GDP's pensions, 2008. 10.9, not sorry, 2008. 9.6% and 2009. 10.3% and we're about today. So 10.3% of GDP. 20 years ago, clearly, the odds were different, that ratio was 1 to 3. In the '90s, we had not 1 to 3 but 1 to 3.47. ... I didn't mistake anything, it was 1988. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] At the end of March at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, it is the third month data, we had a million 498 thousand 222 insurance companies, and when I mentioned the state and just to tell you gentlemen from the right in that rotten Tito, or I don't know what Yugoslavia in the average pension salary took part with 75.3%. And in this democratic, advanced, European, etc. Croatia, which is the leader in the region, is about 40% of the salary ratio and the average pension. ... Yeah, that's right for what categories. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] For pensions goes, so 20% of the contributions, 15% stays in the first pillar, 5% goes into the second pillar, and that capital as it gives the results today we saw at HANFA. There are 170 people in the third pillar of voluntary savings. We need 34.61 billion kuna for pensions. The total expenditure and those 3 100 people, I don't know why 3 100 of them should work in the pension system, is 35.2 billion kuna. For preferential pensions, it's 7.2 billion kuna. There's 181,000 of us here. In addition to the President of the State, Ministers etc., Judges of the Constitutional Court, etc. Croatian defenders in January were 67,000 714, retired in March already 68,000 630, today it must be 72,000. Of these 21,000 674 people receive a pension of more than 7,000 kuna. Less than two thousand kunas in a defense attorney's office have 1954 of them. Now, with ministers, with judges of the Constitutional Court, it's close to 40 years, some work and 50, I don't know on average 36.6 months, the average pension in Croatia is achieved by 29 years of internship, the average counsel's internship is 18 years, the HVO user is 8 years and 5 months. The average ordinary pension is 2162 kuna, defender on average 5611 kuna, clearly I advocate that in some and should in all rights equalise NOB fighters, however, there is one other moment. When those others retired, they received the 5% on that internship or on that amount, classified as privileged pension beneficiaries, and now lost 10% with the latest audit. They'd be worth more to one good part if they weren't in that privileged system. The peace system, as they said before, is whether or not to be, clearly departs from the country's economic power, so I compared the data between Croatia and these other countries. If it hadn't been for so many jobs in the country, it would have been better, if it hadn't been for so many investments, it would have been better if the public sector had set things up differently, it would have been better, if maybe more work, more tax pay, if there were less work on black or fuche, it would have been better, etc. For the end of what certainly hurts is the poverty border of 1845 kuna, the average pension is 2200 kuna, a total of 557 thousand 166 people in Croatia receive a pension below 2000 kuna or half pensioners or pensioners still have a pension under 2000 kuna. The truth is we have to admit that no one has made it out of those full pensions. In fact, those who went to full retirement don't have that information in front of me, you should find it in the report, I didn't take it out, I think it's close to 70%. Those who go into full retirement at 40 years versus the average salary, which is 5200 kuna, here somewhere, well about 66 to 70%. It's just the truth. And that's why the battle of all battles if we want to change that system to help ourselves, simply lies in the economy. This is where it all starts, where it all ends, so it depends clearly on what kind of pension everyone in this country is going to be tomorrow, but I'm afraid that the 90,000 people we lost in the last year as many of them retired as we did at the Bureau, this year we're certainly going to lose at least 50, 60,000 people, we're going to lose somewhere in that work system, and I'm afraid maybe 40,000 insurance people. We're not going to lose everything, gentlemen, but some of us are going to end up not saying which one has to do a lot more work to get some of the others to spill what's coming down. It is certain that it will take years to change something, whether it will change, what it will look like, remains to be seen, it is unfortunate that many in the region who, as they like to say it today, are going "go up" and we are going down, and we should somehow be leaders. But here, maybe after the 2011 season, maybe the opportunities will start to change, I guess something positive will start happening, and unfortunately, investors are still not coming back, but they're slowly coming in for certain investments, if we were faster maybe they'd come in faster. It is certain that the opportunities around Croatia are being corrected, so this could lead to Croatia's economy. Croatia will surely have to go through these elections with one catharsis and change of government will certainly speed up changes for the better, and should expect it to also help stabilise not so soon and the pension system but certainly after that, faith in investment, maybe investments, etc., and may be less unemployed on the stock market. All in all of what to say, this is a set of normally these figures, there is no reason not to accept this report, there is not a lot of painting we all know but unfortunately for the opportunities in this country, the people who work in this Office are not responsible but only normally pass on the funds that are previously coming through the tax system or those 15 or 16 billion that need to be provided in the budget of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58978	Thank you. A few papers. First Mr. Representative Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58979	Mr. Vice President. Anything my colleague Cain says that even dear God couldn't fix in a hurry, but I'm just two things, one million data. Then he says that by now 19 thousand people have gone into early retirement, and the exact number, hello, how many... This year until 31. 8. 12 grand. It hasn't been a month. But Mr. Cain knows that next year there will be 330 thousand unemployed, and I think that both his prognosis and Nostradamus will be ashamed and maybe we should call him Kaindamus so that he knows everything that's going to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58980	Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58981	Mr. Vice President. My colleague Cain said that we are not far from the European average age, i.e. The average years for retirement, then says the difference between his calculation is about two years. That's not true, I think it's a very big difference, that just those two years create a deficit of the necessary funds in the state pension budget. And last week, when we discussed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act where we went on an increase, it meant old age for retirement, where we went to rehabilitate early retirement, which is exactly one way to avoid this deficit. My colleague Cain was against it, of course. He talks again about privileged pensions and focuses on Croatian defenders' pensions I've fixed two years that there's too little difference. [[And what are you correcting?]] So between the Croatian average and the European average for retirement, what counterpart Cain said. Secondly, I am correcting the name of privileged pensions that do not exist in the concept, but pensions according to special regulations, and where it specifically speaks of Croatian defenders' pensions, and in no way mentions pensions from the People's Liberation War.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58982	You're not correcting a colleague of Huška's.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58983	I fixed what my colleague said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58984	What did your colleague say? Comrade Cain, do you have any objections?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58985	I don't think I'm the one who's trying to comment on it, that it's giving its opinion. But just to remind you once again, the average of Croatian citizens is 59.9%. ... I'm glad to hear it. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] In one France 59.3. So six months less work than here, and that's why I said there's no difference. And in Denmark, 61.3.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58986	Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58987	I'm also correcting one, I'm not going to do it anymore, because obviously Mr. Kajin has confused all this data, but I'm correcting an incorrect quote from him because it's his rhetoric that says that pensions and NOB fighters should be equalized, and I'm going to tell him only one thing that there are still more pensioners and NOB fighters in this country in Croatia today than soldiers and volunteers of the Homeland War. Mr. Caine, obviously that's where you are... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58988	Comrade Lucic, we've had a little time. Too much poetic freedom. Ms. Representative Vesna Buterin, Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58989	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Director of Associates, Secretary of State. Here, unlike my colleagues, I will focus exclusively on the debate on the report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Of course less about the very pension system of the Republic of Croatia. At the beginning, I will say that the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club supports the 2009 Work and Business Report of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. The pension insurance system in the Republic of Croatia is arranged and implemented in the form of compulsory pension insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity, and in the form of compulsory and voluntary pension insurance on the basis of capitalised savings. This report, which we are discussing today, is about compulsory pension insurance based on intergenerational solidarity and the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. The Pension Insurance Office is a public institution and has public powers in resolving pension insurance rights and obligations, in dealings with the exercise of the rights of insured persons, in implementing international social insurance contracts, and in ensuring the legality of the exercise of the rights of insured persons. The Institute shall provide professional assistance in the exercise of rights, implement a policy of development and improvement of pension insurance, and shall carry out other tasks related to the exercise and exercise of rights, and shall cooperate and exchange data with related institutions and shall, in fact, be one of the main holders of the processing of statistical data at country level. In 2009, the number of pensioners continued, but the number of insurance workers fell. After a major drop in the number of insurance companies in the 1990s due to economic growth and number and reform of pension insurance Generational solidarity, which began with the application of the Pension Insurance Act in the period from 2000 to 2007, it continued to increase. However, due to the economic crisis in the second half of 2008 the number of insurance companies continued as well. Thus, on 31 December, a million 530233 insurance companies were registered. Of that number were 786660 insurance companies under the age of 40, 413218 insurance companies aged 40 to 49 and 330355 insurance companies with 50 and more years of life. So 4.6% were less registered insurance than in December 2008. In the insurance structure, it is important to say that in the total number of insurance companies, the number of farmers is constantly decreasing, so from 39824 in 2008, that number fell to 33806 in 2009, which is certainly not an indication of a positive trend. The situation is similar with craftsmen who account for 4.90% in the total number of insurance companies. The number of craftsmen decreased by slightly more than 79,000 in 2008 to about 75,000 in 2009. At the same time, a million 173814 pensioners were registered, which is 2.2% more than in December 2008. Thus, the ratio of insurance and pensioners in 2009 was 1.30:1 which so far is the lowest recorded ratio of the number of insurance and pensioners in the Republic of Croatia. For example, this relationship in 2006 was 1.40:1 as in 2008 while in 2007 the ratio was 1.61. In 2009, a total of 56 thousand 970 pensioners, slightly more than 28 thousand old and early retirement pensions, 13 thousand 139 disabled and 15 thousand 182 family pensions, increased by 4.75% compared to last year. The average retirement pension rate is 32 years, the disabled pensioner is 24 years, and family pensions are 27 years, while the average pension rate of all pensioners is 29 years. The proportion of pensioners with an completed 40-year retirement period in the total number of pensioners is 11.54%, which is a slight increase compared to 2008. The average pension that was made under the Retirement Insurance Act for December 2009 and reduced by tax, tax and special tax was 2 thousand 169 kn and the share of those pensions in the average net salary was 40.46%. In 2009, pensions were harmonised by 3,68%, which means that by harmonising pensions, they actually increased more than consumer prices by 0.24%. On the basis of the Law on Supplement to Pensions reached under the Law on Pension Insurance in November 2007, an allowance of 4% on pensions made in 1999 to 27% on pensions from 1 January 2010. In 2009, the supplement was used by an average of 237 thousand 309 users, paying a total of 897 million 592 thousand kuna. As of 1 January 2008, in accordance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, pensions made on 1 January 1999 and early retirement pensions, minimum pensions and disability pensions have been increased due to their professional inability to work for employees. The pension allowance and the previously mentioned increase in pensions ease the differences between pensions achieved in different periods. The average level of pensions is important to say that it also affects the fact that about 121 thousand pensioners or 10.3% of the total number of pensions were made through the application of international social insurance contracts that made their pension in Croatia with an average of 11 years of pension standing at an average of 728.41 kuna, with the pension of an foreign insurance provider. The thousand-and-a-half kuna peace received 302 thousand pensioners or 27.8%, resulting from the short retirement and low salaries of those pensioners. The share of pension expenditure in the gross domestic product reached a maximum of 12.04% in 2001, in order to reduce the share continuously and to be 9.71% in that year. In 2008, it increased the impact of the payment of the allowance on pensions as from 1 January 1999 under the Pension Insurance Act and the application of the law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, which has increased early retirement, minimum pensions and disability pensions since 1 January 2008. In 2009, the share of pension expenditure in the gross domestic product increased to 10.53% due to an increase in pensioners from a million 148 thousand 290 in December 2008 to a million 173 thousand 814 in December 2009. However, due to the reduction of gross domestic product from 342 billion in 2008 to 333 billion in 2009. Due to demographic ageing, the number of pensioners will continue to increase in the future and this will have a long-term adverse impact on the financial situation in pension insurance of generation solidarity. When we talk about the business of the institution, it is necessary to say that in 2009 it was in line with the financial plan, it covered all business events related to the pension insurance system, and the 2009 financial management report was drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the budgetary accounting and included a detailed overview of the total income and income and expenditure and expenditure relating to all the activities of the pension insurance system planned in the 2009 state budget. It is also important to say that all revenues and receipts were paid to a single bank account, and all expenditure and expenses were paid from the State Treasury account. The total revenues of the 2009 Institute were made in the amount of €35 billion, €588,000,812 kuna, and expenditures totalling €35 billion,72 million,575 thousand,389 kuna. The total revenue achieved is intended to finance the pension insurance system, and they were related to revenue from the contribution, further revenue from the pension commitments budget of the State, made according to specific regulations and other revenue from the budget to the improvement of the pension system, and their own income. In the overall expenditure structure, pension and pension income expenditures amounted to 98.08%, while regular pension coordination and pension incomes increased by 3.86%. In addition to pension insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity, the Institute shall carry out the process of exercising the right to an allowance for children. Thus, the total revenue of the children's allowances amounted to EUR 760 million and was lower by 6% compared to 2008 and related to revenues from the state budget. Total expenditure on this basis was achieved in the same amount as the average number of children's allowances was reduced by 7% and the average number of children who received child allowance by 6.8%. During the last year, work was continued on modernization and reconstruction of the institute and on raising the quality of services provided by the Institute to its users. Finally, it should be said that all key planned jobs are done with the planned dynamics and within the established deadlines. It should also be pointed out that the report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has been quality prepared and positive developments are visible year after year. Due to the above mentioned Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the 2009 Work and Business Report of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58990	Thank you. At 16,02 o'clock, it was time to report a ten-minute debate on this point. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58991	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Rukavin and his associates and the secretary of state, I don't know exactly the names, so don't be mad at that. But here's the other day we witnessed newspaper reports and various reports and doubts that, according to headlines, in the gray economy in the Republic of Croatia somewhere, it evaporated between 50 and 120 billion kuna. So since you are here in charge and are retired insurance I wonder if you know how many companies, how many companies in the Republic of Croatia do not pay contributions to their employees. And as a surgeon, I was able to get into a disability pension for patients who were severely injured and were no longer able to work, and then it turned out when they came to your premises that his employer had not paid two, three, four years in general and even a part of health insurance. Would a different balance be this report of yours if it wasn't there? The other gray economy may be somewhat said and justified. One citizen told me well that there is a gray economy because that part of the money did not go to the government's register because the state and this executive government have it better to remain in the public than to land in the register of the government that is unable to manage this state. He's got opinions like that. But it is not time to discuss the gray economy, although it should be your concern and the Ministry of Economy and all inspections in this country and the Minister of Finance and the Tax Administration and the inspection of the Ministry of Economy, not only yours, but this report, which is excellently written, is technically excellent. It shows the rational operations of the Pension Insurance and Regulatory Office itself, even with a reduced number of employees this year, as you stated for some 100 and something. It is also true that pension funds in the past were really exposed, what Vidovic said were self-service. I would say it was an open window of a privatization self-service that disappeared from what they said was an unquestionable wealth for Croatian citizens who have acquired it for decades. For decades, our workers and all those who have contributed to pension funds. When we look at this report, then there are very striking tables that are being presented here and that are excellent, transparent and much of it revealed, and one small part is also hidden. Now, here's an example from page 45. Therefore, it is a table 11 which speaks of a review of the immovable business of the Pension Insurance Office, which states in point 2 and the tables write over-payments of pension insurance and children's allowance. Repayments, not subscriptions. This means that in 2009 in the Republic of Croatia there were non-regimes 12 thousand 372. So 12 thousand 372 individuals received non-reduced pensions or child benefits. But first of all, he doesn't get a pension. What does non-retirement mean? So you have people in the Republic of Croatia and even outside of it who receive a pension after 10 years and have already died 10 years or 5 years ago or do not belong to pensions and are receiving a pension. Last year, this same report, which was submitted and audited, was a little bit more of such payments or overpayments of non-retirement pensions. I think there were over 13,000 of them. But then the audit report also said the amount of these, the total amount in kunas of these non-retirement pensions, which amounted to HRK 105 million for 2008. Exactly as much as it would be enough to split the entire population of the Republic of Croatia against the HPV virus for which there is no money, for which the vaccine has no money. Or maybe to buy and make up for these two MIGs that fell a few days ago at Slunj's. Or other needs. Or stay in the pension fund. It would be very good if the pension fund had 105 million kuna more. From year to year, Mr. Rukavina, a relatively high number of these non-retirement pensions is withdrawn. So it's very slow to decrease that number. Last year there were 13,000, this year 12 and 372. So we should settle this in 15 years if there are no new cases of non-retirement pensions. That's what I've talked about from this phone booth several times. Obviously, however, there is no movement in that direction. Furthermore, it would be good if in this report, too, that parliamentary representatives were reported how much in kuna they amounted to, which categories are therefore classified here, how many pensioners are there, how many child benefits, how many children are receiving pensions, and by which area services, your regional services, our district services, were in the county, how many pensions these pensions are. I don't know if it's necessary to hide, so let's see that financial effect of this table. I'd like to know her. Furthermore, in what is so controversial as someone said "privileged pension," so when we talk about privileged pensions or what someone said here, Mr. Huška or who said that pensions are said under special regulations, although they do write here and under more favourable conditions, so it is not only under special regulations, but also under more favourable conditions. Isn't that right, Mr. Hushka? Under more favourable conditions and under special regulations, these are two items. There are some very interesting things. So such pensions of a thousand 100, of a million and 173 thousand has 181 thousand 224. And when we look at that number, then I have to, there's no Mr. Cain here, he gets it, and then right away, we have the participants of the People's Liberation War in the number of 41 thousand 679. I would like to know to compare, combine, the number of those NOR participants since 2008, 2007 etc. So I don't know how much, if there's more or less, but there's no sign of it in the table, so it would be convenient to compare it. Furthermore, it is interesting that members of the former JNA with privileged pensions also have 11000 232, just as much as those who had theirs to say the preferential pensions acquired from the Croatian Army. The JNA and the Croatian Army are exactly the same. It's exactly the same, in a hundred, two. Very interesting. Furthermore, I must ask Mr. Rukavin how it happened in '98. in the year, you know that he was informed, that we had made one conversion of pensioners to say from mostly Bosnia and Herzegovina, to whom they recognised the internship, which they did in Bosnia and Herzegovina to Croatian pensions, until '98. A year. After that, those who have had a job internship in Bosnia and Herzegovina will no longer have the right to do so, but will receive part of the pension according to therefore Croatian pension insurance regulations, and will receive part from Bosnia. So it happened in '98. It seems to me that in May a decision has been made to do so. So there are people who have a Croatian pension, and not one day have done their job in the Republic of Croatia. That's why you know that's the way it is. It is also true that 50% of the pensioners receive a pension of less than 2 thousand kuna, so from the social minimum, which is indeed for this country that we thought would be Switzerland, but the bad administration of our home, we brought it to the brink of bankruptcy, unfortunately we have led 50% of the pensioners to receive a pension of less than 2 thousand kuna, which is a really sad fact, but we can't escape from it, when we see in statistics that pension insurance is collected through payment obligations, pension insurance contributions collects nearly 20 billion kuna, and from the state budget is still being added to that eye, now don't catch me by word, 15 billion kuna, that means total pension insurance, the Pension Insurance Office has 35 billion kuna, of which 500 million kuna for business and for the salaries of its 3,000 and 100 employees, as far as it seems. There are other interesting tables in your report, and one of them is Table 1, on page 5, which shows that from 1995 to 2009, the number of pensioners has increased by 308,000. Then it was 865 grand, 66, and today it's a million and 173 grand. So for these under 14 years, the number of pensioners has increased by 308,000, not to 308, but to 308,000, which is very impressive I can tell you. It's really impressive. Clearly, this figure in relation to the number of employees who pay, and how many who don't yet pay, I started it at the beginning, so those who pay contributions for pension insurance, compared to the number of pensioners 1.3 to one is actually catastrophic, that it is slipping into an ever worse relationship, so in an ever worse relationship, and when someone is talking about demographics, it's happening to us demographic ageing, but this demographic ageing needs to be explained. Why is it happening so headlong? One is the number, the fewer births, so the fewer children born, the newborn children, the other is the departure of young people from Croatia. And when you take these two facts, then it is clear that Croatia has one unnaturally steep, drop of demographic image, or change of shape of the pyramid upside down. So the number of old, older people from the middle so it's just the opposite of what the real pyramid looks like, and it's going to be getting fatter and fatter in the upper parts. That's what all of us need to be concerned about together, because here I am 33 years of work experience, so I'm getting closer to that age when I'm going to start taking care of this, but there's a lot more of those who really don't expect anything good if these trends continue. That is why it is a good initiative for all of us to sit together, regardless of party membership, so we need to gather smart people together with people from the Pensions and All Ministry and make one really one or how it can be said reform, or one programme or one strategy to avoid the situation that when people retire they can't accept it. Or get a solution when there's money, you'll get it. As now there are solutions that our people are getting that are going to retire, says you've been behind since February 1st, but when there's money, you'll get it. Have you seen these solutions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58992	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Mile Rukavina, Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58993	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here I'm going to try to answer some questions as soon as possible to correct some data, not with the intention of polymizing, of course, with distinguished MPs and MPs, but simply to shed some light on things. Well, I'll start by order, Mr. Cain presented the information on the number of applications submitted, or the number of requests solved for temporary retirement. The correct information is that 19 thousand of these applications were submitted by 20.09. I've got it right in front of me, 19 294. And it's settled by 31.08. 12 116 requests. Now, it's no problem to determine how many applications are submitted because it's being conducted on a daily basis, because it's simple. However, the number of resolutions is done on a monthly basis because it is a process, because one system-wide processing and all types of pensions need to be done and it is simply expensive for the Bureau to do so now at one daily or weekly level. It is therefore theoretically impossible if 19 thousand requests are submitted that it is possible to resolve 22 by that same date, it is impossible. For example, in last year 2009, 18,775 were submitted and 12,015 were resolved. It's always less resolved than filed because people give up their applications. I'd like to meet you here, Mr. Boro Grubisic's esteemed representative asked a few questions, so here's how much I can answer. Here's to those non-refundable payments first. Why do I say it reduces that condition? It reduces the situation, it is seen from the report every year, but it is simply about the legacy of the system, about non-income payments from earlier years. The key reasons they were, I'd give three key reasons. Family pensions, in which case there is a lack of confirmation by parents and within a month or two, it is done, and within a month or two it is resolved. At the same time, we also have the use of pensions and a simultaneous working relationship. It is clear by law that the user of the pension would have to, not if he had to, report any change in insurance by law, as well as the establishment of a working relationship. That's not happening. We do not have an instrument for coercion except that we have offered foreign insurance carriers a single project to share information among the countries of the former Yugoslavia at a high level of information. We have 113,000 pension payments abroad with them, we have 87 thousand. Which is one big, representative piece of information. And it's simply impossible without processing and assistance from an foreign carrier, because we don't have the instrument to determine whether, for example, someone in BiH is employed, we don't have. We must be tipped off by the holder, and he must pray to whoever has the data on the working-law status of that man, which is extremely expensive from month to month, and therefore the project has been agreed at the common level of the former Yugoslavia's countries to solve these problems. The death of family pensioners is also one of the reasons for not reporting the fact of death. And there are a large number of requests, or requests, of these non-received payments that were from earlier periods because they are often and there are, there have been such cases as you mentioned, that is true, that people do not report the fact of death. The Bureau just can't know. However, we have also established with the MUP and with the parent offices also one project where, in a completely different way, this is being done and good results are being achieved. Unfortunately, however, it was. It's the same here, Mr. Grubisic seems to have told me about statistical information, here's this information about the number of users, I don't know what you mentioned to the NOR fighters, defenders. The Institute publishes statistical information, they're on the Internet. And so from year to year you can see that comparison. Of course, we can't compare all data backwards for 10 or 20 years with data from earlier years, but listen no problem is looking at statistical information so you can see, there's no secrets, there's nothing to hide. I don't know now I'm everything. The checkout of the payment of the contribution. Look, we do our part of the job as defined by the law, but the fact is that the records, management and collection of contributions have been fully in the jurisdiction of the IRS since 2003. We conduct procedures for this period that are in motion and are not finished and what is in our jurisdiction we do. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58994	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58995	Dear Mr. Rukavin, you've explained things well, but I need to correct that here in your report we're talking about informing the Retirement Office. Well, it's funny how the Pension Insurance Office isn't tied up, linked to what's being said today in information, with the home office. So you don't know who died, who didn't. And how come this number of non-retirement pensions for people who died 10 years later? It's an official obligation, and I guess the state needs to take care of it. Furthermore, you said, here's what I'm fixing, you said you didn't keep records of the collection of contributions. Well, you see, I'm not in a medical holding, so I know now five firms to tell you who don't pay contributions, big companies, here. And our ministry, Mr. Bajic, and I don't even know who doesn't know about it anymore. Well, that's interesting in this country, very interesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58996	Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58997	Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58998	We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is President Neda Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u58999	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Director with his associates. So we can repeat once again that in 2009, a total of one million and 173 thousand 814 pension users and a million and 530 thousand insurance companies were recorded, representing 1 to 1.30. And of course, as we have already heard, this is the highest level recorded in the Republic of Croatia. The total income from the Institute has also been heard by 35 billion and 89 million kuna, expenditure on pensions in the gross social product in 2009 increased by 10.53%, as 2.2% increased the number of pensioners compared to December 2008 and GDP cuts by 9 billion in the same period. The peace and pension incomes are harmonised by 3,68%, and it is important to note as well as the relevant decisions on the harmonisation of Croatian defenders' pensions from the Homeland War. The average pension achieved under the Law was reduced by tax, tax and special tax was around 2170 kuna, and the average pension rate in the average net salary was 40.46%, therefore higher than it was in 2008. The average age pension was 2409 kuna and the share was 44, also higher than in 2008. A total of billions and 760 million kuna have been spent to finance children's allowances, the average amount increased by 0.8% and increased in the last five years the inflow of new pensioners and was more pronounced in the second half of 2009. The total number includes beneficiaries of Croatian Army and Croatian Defence Council pensions. About 85% of pensioners exercised the right under general rules and about 15% under more favourable conditions prescribed under specific regulations. According to regulations that were in place until September 1998, pension and other rights such as a protective allowance, financial compensation for physical damage, aid and care allowance were made. The average level of pensions was positively affected by the fact that 10.3% of pensioners made foreign pensions, while in Croatia they achieved an average of 11% of pensions in the average amount of around 728 kuna with the pension of foreign insurance providers. The peace amounted to €1500, 28%, and the result of the Croatian pension internship and the low salaries of these users between these pensions, is relatively more users of disabled and family pensions. It should be said that for 1.53% of the child's allowance is resolved more than in 2008, by about 2% more than, i.e. 87.5% of total requirements were resolved and the percentage of resolved requirements was increased within 2 months. The remaining one was 12.5% and that's an improvement compared to last year. About 10% of the demand is higher than in 2008 which shows a continuation of the trend in the number of applications. A significant shift has been made, and at least we heard it through the correction of incorrect allegations because the Institute for all the jobs for which it is of course competent and has public authority has done with a smaller number of employees than in 2008 thanks to good management in business processes, optimal use of the knowledge and skills of its employees, and the expenditure on employees has been reduced by 8.7% and material expenditure by 4.4%. In particular, it was positively reflected as in its opening address and pointed out by the director when he said that the new Office of Medical Skills and Pensions Insurance, which changed the working legal status of a doctor of witches. They are a legal working relationship for an indefinite period of time, since practice has shown that work for a certain time has been ineffective, which has been particularly reflected in the urgency of performing skills. Special attention has been paid and continues to be given to quality personnel, people who know, want and can work and their proper selection and schedule to the right jobs. There is a professional training of seminars, consultations, conferences, courses and the like. In addition, in 2009, 4.88% of employees were reduced compared to 2008, and new employment would only be granted with exceptional respect to the government's efforts to overcome the economic crisis. In the framework of normative activities, the current and new general acts have been adopted. The Institute provided legal assistance and, as we also heard from the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship, both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, the Ministry of Family, the defenders and intergenerational solidarity as well as foreign pension insurance holders. More significant activities have also been promoted by media, which is also important, insurance companies have made communication via telephone, written through the Office website and all complaints received we have also heard discussed, verified, verified their founding and applicants have been informed of the business as is similar to one public institution, such as the Institute. A whole series of activities related to the personal identification number and the possibility of removing the workbook have also been implemented. Personally, Mr. Director, I'm glad we have a new facility in the area of my county that happened in the town of Vodice. They kept, of course, getting the better and more quality life of our pensioners in that city. Measures were constantly implemented to increase activities in the resolution of pension insurance rights requirements, archiving and excavating operations of the registration structure were modernised. Much has been done for the maintenance and further development of the information system and continued implementation of the information cycle during 2009. Public work and access to information have been promoted, co-operation with the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, the State Treasury and the Central Harmonization Unit continued. The Ministry of Health and Social Welfare continued cooperation with the project of informing social care, for the needs of the social care centre in the exercise of the right of the Social Care Act, which is also a very important dimension. I will ultimately support the report because it has shown quality and professionally the state of the total pension insurance system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59000	Thank you. It's our guest, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59001	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, representatives of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. When we talk about this report, what can, of course, always be noted is that it is made of quality with a sufficient number of data, which unfortunately suggests the insufferability of a system such as pension insurance in Croatia, along with those known problems that we all know less about. An unfavourable relationship between retired or insurance companies, which goes in a negative direction year after year, increases the number of people retired and fewer people work. And accordingly, separations from the state budget are increasing to cover the minus that should be compensated from contributions to the full amount of pension. And now what we do in Croatia, that is, how we deal with this problem and why it is more and more important year by year. The first thing we have is a rather unfavourable structure of the pensioners, the problem is already being dragged away from the '90s when certain things were solved by the early retirement of the people. At that time, it seemed to be a certain structure of the then ruling furniture as a simple solution, if you don't need a man, send him into retirement. And he was already known in some ways there was a consequence and a negative direction that began to develop this growth of the number of people retired from the employment. What I'm saying from the very report I'm telling you correctly is that it's primarily the age structure of retired people. In Croatia, it is not anything lower than the average in European countries, it seems to me somewhere over two years is the younger structure of pensioners in Croatia, or even a third of pensioners under the age of 60. The second thing that falls into the eyes is an extremely low average, i.e. the proportion of average pensions in the average salary that falls from year to year. We had one positive trend that developed in 2001, the second and third years when the average pension reached almost 44% of the average salary. Unfortunately, this positive trend was then stopped and turned in the opposite direction. Today, at the end of 2009, the average pension was 40% of the salary. And to see what that is, at all, 2 thousand 387 kuna, which means that the average retirement pensioner in Croatia needs to survive with 79 kuna every day. Of course, that is insufficient and that we should all work together to protect this average part and most of the pensioners and eventually have more resources for our lives. As a society, when we look at the share of GDP, we stand out 10.5% for pensions in GDP. I'm going to compose again in 2001, second and third, 12% of 2001, 2002. 11.5% means there could have been more isolation in me than in 2006, the seventh time when there was an additional problem in Croatia of this lack of funds that had to be compensated from the state budget. What this year and last year marks is definitely one disproportion in the collection of contributions. So the contributions were charged about 300 million less than it was in 2008, and on the other hand, the retirement for pensions itself increased, so we had to allocate 2 billion kuna more from the budget to cover it I would say the difference needed to make up for the amount for all pensions. What's that about? Of course, first because of the downsizing of employees. And I expect in 2010 and an increase in this problem and in some way as we go at the end of the year, more and more difficult payments from the state budget for Croatian pensioners because of the lack of funds and will probably need more than a billion kuna this year compared to 2009, due to the reduction in the number of unemployed. We know that 80,000 people have lost more jobs than last year, and on the other hand, problems in the collection of contributions for the pensions that companies have and which someone has already mentioned in previous discussions where they are not being paid in some way regularly and more firms in liquidity problems. One situation that isn't exactly me would say promising and brilliant, I expect great problems in the existence of such a pension system. There's something I need to do. First of all, try to create new jobs to increase the number of contributions paid into the state budget and this is the only sustainable way to try to solve the problem and sustainability of the pension system in Croatia. Unfortunately, this is not there, the results are weak year after year from year to year Croatian GDP falls second year in a row. In two years, we lost 8% of GDP, about 120 thousand jobs. And normally when you have such a situation and the whole theme of paying off pensions comes into question. I'm concerned that there are no signs of economic recovery, and the only thing that can get us out of this situation is the creation of new jobs and the increase of economic activity. As far as the report itself is concerned, I have no concrete objections to it, except I am concerned by this negative trend and these two billion kunas more than we had to spend in 2009 from the 2008 budget. It's gonna be hard to go on like that. I'm kind of worried, and I'd like to be denied here maybe from the Pension Insurance Office itself. I'm afraid this year before the end of the year, we'll have a problem with pension payments because such a negative trend is difficult to endure without new responsibilities. Thank you very much. Here's so much from me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59002	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59003	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, the director of the Bureau of Associates. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have heard here so far critics and praises, but it is undeniable that the pension system is the biggest challenge of modern economic life. But today we are not talking about the pension system, but about the 2009 report of the Pension Insurance Institute, and in order to talk about the pension system at all, it is necessary to make professional and systematic expertise adaptable to Croatia's needs. There is no optimal model pension system applicable everywhere and efficient everywhere. The peace system is also a dynamic category, it is not static, it needs to be changed systematically, continuously and adapted to certain needs of the society in which it applies. Croatia really needs a specific pension system. But she inspired me, and that's why I came forward for the debate, a debate by my colleague, Goran Beus Richembergh, who is not there, because I haven't heard such a sober, rational debate in a long time that he praised the work of the institute and I join these commendations. Because if we're only talking about the 2009 Bureau and the 2009 report, then we can undoubtedly say that the highest grade office passed the exam. Five consecutive unconditional opinions of the State Review confirms this. As much as I'm happy to say it, I'm so sad to remember what the Peace Fund might have had, what a portfolio it was in the '90s, how it was thrown into the wind and how it wasn't used. Today we wouldn't have such a deficit if in a way like this managed these days and in recent years, then the pension system would complement the deficit of pension insurance contributions and have significantly less difficulties. But we pay for when the pension fund acted irrationally, when it shared advances for the performance of the works, and the works were never done, it was never sued, it was never even charged. A million and hundreds of millions of kunas. When loans were taken from the pension fund for the purchase of shares and businesses, they were never returned. That's why a little while of that period I'm looking at how it could have been done, and if it had been managed like this, if it'd been approached like today, then we'd have a lot less problems, and we wouldn't have so many so-called problems. structural problem. It is doubtless that Croatia has structural problems and orientation to import and drop industrial production and high ino debt, but what bothers us most as a structural problem is the relationship of the pensioners to the employees and the relationship of the pensioners in relation to the working potential population. All that was wrong in the real sector, all the imbalances of the real sector, all that quasi entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs had problems with their companies, all that moved to the Mirovinski Fund. All the difficulties from the economy have just been transferred to the Mirovinski Fund. This imbalance is now seen in 562,000 more retired than in the '90s. There used to be 600,000 pensioners, 2 million employees, not employees, here I read, in the '90s there were 160,000 unemployed. Even in the 1960s, there were only 42,000 unemployed, and today, instead of 2 million employees, we have a million and a half employees, instead of 600,000 pensioners, we have a million and 100,000 pensioners. Instead of an unemployed 160 grand, we have 260 grand. All of this has led to this structural problem. Of course this is the behavior of the Pension Insurance Office is actually one shift, one positive side that we're not in an even greater depth. Just rational behavior, only responsible and professional behavior of the Pension Insurance Institute helps us get out of such deep structural problems. It is worth mentioning that only at the material expenditures of 5 million kuna was spent less in 2009 than in 2008 and the job scope was higher. That's why I congratulate you on that, on those activities, and on that effort you've made. And it is known that the pension system cannot solve the problems of the pension system, the pension system cannot increase the number of employees at all. Only an increase in economic activity, with only a rise in GDP can there be an increase in employment. The economic dependence on GDP growth and employment growth and GDP decline is well known and employment declines. 2% of GDP decline causes 1% of unemployment, 2% of GDP growth results in 1% of employment increases. And we have a structural problem and how to raise economic activity. And we have a prepared Pension Insurance Service that will monitor every possible situation, but in order to achieve that, we need to change behavior in other environments. The credit activity of business banks must be increased in order to encourage investment, an entrepreneurial culture must be created because, indeed, there is not a sufficient level of entrepreneurial culture among entrepreneurs today that would create enthusiasm among entrepreneurs to participate in the economy process, and a competition is necessary to engage in the economic process. The biggest change for the growth of economic activity is needed in the philosophy and approach of the Competition Protection Agency and in the philosophy of the business approach of business banks. Only then will we ensure the equal position of all market participants, then we can count on the entrepreneurial climate. And there are still dominant on the market. Today, we pay for paying so dearly for the bank's recovery. If we sold the experience of resuscitating banks, how much it cost us, we wouldn't have an ino of debt today. I know that some won't even like what I said, that they'll say again that those who speak against the recovery of banks and sell for 5 billion kuna, and the state cost 87.4 billion that they don't know anything about banking and that they don't know three positions in assets and passports, but neither are they who write every day closed spheres of knowledge and competence, and everything else outside that ball is ignorance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59004	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59005	Congratulations again to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59006	Thank you. It's our guest, Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59007	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Director with his colleagues and fellow MPs. As far as the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is concerned, its work has already been done today and has been highlighted by the members of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership and has unanimously assessed that it is more and more quality, rational year by year, and every commendation and director with his professional team at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. The report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute last year shows what everyone here has in some way repeated, a further trend in the growth of the number of pensioners relative to the number of insurance companies. So with 31.12., a million and 173 thousand 814 pensioners were recorded in relation to this number of insurance companies that were so mentioned by a million 530 thousand 233 and, of course, that is one unfavourable ratio, one ratio to 1.3. Such a trend certainly also has a significant impact on the funding needed to pay off pensions, so the share of pension expenditure in the gross social product increased from 9.8% from 2008 to 10.53% in the last year, which is also around 34.39 billion kuna. Such a ratio as the trend in pensioners' growth is unsustainable and it actually destroys the entire pension system. All statistical indicators also talk about the extension of the life span, and therefore not only Croatia, but other European countries also provide regulations on the extension of the working age, i.e. The intensity is that the longer insurance companies remain in employment, means in the world of work, which will ultimately have a positive effect for not only the pension system, but also the economy. Life spans, on average, extend from year to year, for example. According to the indicators we have here in '91. In 2009, the average duration of life was 71 years, and in 2009 the average duration was 76 years. So he's basically over the past 18 years increased by 5 years so he's extended his life, average life span. Normally, the average retirement pension rate according to this report is now 32 years old and the average use of the retirement pension in 2009 was 17 years 11 months and 5 months longer than in 2008. It is therefore good that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also proposed these amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, as well as the Employment and Rights Law during unemployment, because one and the other regulations slow down new pensions, and this means slowing down the growth of expenditure in the pension fund, so in the medium term there should normally be more money in that pension fund, and as I said it would be useful in any case for the economy itself. So the team is trying to keep people in as long as they're in the world of work, and they kind of do. So I believe that also when these two laws are passed, which are currently under discussion, that this will also be a very significant step and that the next report that the Peace Institute will have next year would be much more favourable than this current situation and this ratio of pensioners and insurance workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59008	Thank you. Now it is the honourable representative Zdenko Franic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59009	There is little to add to this report, it is what it is and reflects very dark and uncertain reality in the Republic of Croatia. However, I would be happy to refer to 2 things, which is primarily the number of disability pensions in the Republic of Croatia because if this table is correct, and there is no doubt that it is true, then we have one of the worst working environments in Europe that causes every 4 workers, worker and probably in any activity to end up as disabled workers. So in 2009 alone, approximately 23% of retirement was about retirements from the aspect of disability pensions. From 2000 to 2009 we see one linear increase. I gave myself a hard time, so I showed it mathematically. So it's a linear function with a correlation coefficient of 0.98, so 98%. And if we're going to go further into mathematics this trend predicts that the number of disability pensions is doubled every 3.8 years, which is catastrophic. It's a disaster considering, of course, it's not your fault, you're just a messenger who brings such news. But for the country that brought out an Andrija Printer who created the doctrine of public health, who was the founder of the World Health Organization, the writer of the World Health Organization Statute, who made that doctrine, which may be the most spectacular export product of all time, this data is disastrous. What do we do with medicine? Why don't they stop the situation? What's the government doing? Why it tolerates employers who actually lead their jobs and workers to the situation of becoming cripples and disabled. Or, more likely, someone's hairing the data. In addition, if your report is read, it says "the increased inflow of disability pensions is influenced by both social reasons and unemployment as well as the fact that disability pensions are more favourable than early retirement pensions." However, how is it possible that disability pensions are more favourable than early retirement property? Is anyone getting a haircut? Are disability pensions also a way of social care for extra workers? And they did, it's seen from this rise when in 1990, there's this indifference, crisis, etc. there were 37 112 disability pensions opposite 2 675 in 2000. It is, of course, not the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's fault, but probably those who allowed it. These pension commissions and medicine work, etc. Such a situation, colleagues and colleagues, is unsustainable, scandalous, catastrophic because the outside gives one terrible picture and disabled pensions are by no means a means of solving social problems and unemployment. It is the government that needs to create game rules to make it easier for entrepreneurs to create new jobs, and for workers who have jobs to provide a decent working environment worthy of the 21st century. I would also end up with the fact that just a few days ago, the vote in the International Standardisation Organisation was completed, that the ISO norm of 26 thousand was accepted, which speaks of social and social responsibility and ethics, which would prevent unethical behaviour towards workers, which would affect such situations without even thinking about them, let alone being so objectively documented. I hope that the new SDP government in a year when we consider one of the following reports will know and be able to prevent this and turn these trends completely to the satisfaction, well-being and benefit of Croatian workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59010	We have one replica, the distinguished representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59011	Dear colleague Franic, I think you're a good warner of one absurdity in the system, and I'm adding to that another case that I have to admit for a long time. A good part of people or a part of people who get a solution to a disability pension that is not in a real disability pension but that part of social care then puts a pension on hold and with the authorities of the state administration sign a contract on work on work. We have such people employed here and in the professional service of the Croatian Parliament. People who got solutions about incompetence to work after that put it on hold and then actually work. We show first that they should not actually retire because they are not incompetent to work but are quite capable of work. If, on the other hand, they already retired and got the solutions why do they take a job when they already have a pension solution because they obviously can't work on a younger person who might work? A lot of things don't work out there. Of course, it's not just a matter of retirement insurance, but it would be good to see the Bureau check out those disability pensions. How many people with disability pensions are working? I know a few myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59012	The reply to the replica, distinguished representative Zdenko Franjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59013	They had the courage to write in the report, quote: "The increased inflow of disability pensions is influenced by both social reasons and unemployment as well as the fact that disability pensions are more favourable than early retirement pensions". So you explicitly acknowledge that the government tolerates the instrument of disability pensions as one social mechanism and a mechanism to combat unemployment, thus transferring it from one pocket to another, and what you fellow Lugarics have said after the disability pensions are achieved and people are returning to the labour market, it is not only immoral but also criminally but also absurdly because it is even thought to tolerate it and let alone tolerate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59014	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59015	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Director with associates, colleagues and colleagues. One of the basic terms of modernization of the Institute are human potentials, meaning quality staff, workers who can work and can and will and will their successful selection and schedule at jobs. The equal status of the staff of the Institute is governed by the Labour Act, the basic collective contract, for officials and subsistence officers and general acts of the Institute. In 2009 all regular staff operations were carried out in accordance with the 2009 Education Plan for Workers, professional training and training of workers with an emphasis on IT training, means continuous acquisition of new knowledge for new technologies, products and business processes and other appropriate forms of education through seminars, conferences, course counselling and exams. Of course it's all that, all these actions have just come up with these results that we're all talking about today. iInformation and communication technology of the Institute is an essential and integral part of the implementation of pension insurance. Information-supported procedures for accepting requests, completing files, calculating pensions, automatic decision-making, automatic pay-offs and regular stamps via mail and banks are supported. The information projects of the solution have been brought into line with the REGOS Information System and the Tax Administration and other aspects of the right arising from the pension reform. On Day 31. 12. In 2009, a total of 1 million 173 thousand 814 pensioners and 1 million 530,000 233 insurance companies were registered in the Institute, making up the ratio that colleagues have already said 1:1.30. The average pension achieved under the Retirement Insurance Act for December 2009 was reduced by taxes and taxes was 2169.32 kuna, which was 1.99% higher than in the previous year and the average net salary ratio was 44.94%. In the last few years we heard the inflow of new pensioners increased and the most pronounced increase was recorded in the 2nd half of 2009. In addition to pension insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity, the Institute also implements the process of exercising the right to pay for children, the law on the addition to pensions made under the Pension Insurance Act. A total of 213 thousand 994 users paid for children for December 2009. The allowance for children amounted to an average of 364.45 kuna per child, with a total of 1.76 billion kuna spent for its financing in 2009. The pension allowance was used on average by 237 thousand 309 users and paid for a total of 897 million 592 thousand 699 kuna. The share of pension expenditure in the gross domestic product in 2009 was 10.53%, with 9.80% in 2008. As a result of the increase in the number of pensioners from a million 148 thousand 290 in December 2008 to a million 173 thousand 814 in the 2009 process. Payments on pensions and pension increases and a reduction of gross domestic product from 342 billion kuna in 2008 to 333 billion kuna in 2009. And now one regulation is particularly important. It was the adoption of a new Regulation on medical skills in pension insurance which amended the working legal status of a doctor of witches i.e. the establishment of a working relationship for an indefinite period of time, as the work on a certain level has proved ineffective in particular with regard to staff renewal and with negative consequences on the urgency of performing skills in the Office. What my colleagues were talking about. So the positive effects of the regulation are expected in the next reporting period. Finally, I support the position of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership under which the Institute should implement the Law on Gender Equality more consistently. Also, people with disabilities above 70% regardless of the cause of disability should have equal rights in terms of the use of Croatian highways without paying tolls. I support the report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59016	Thank you. And in turn, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59017	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, your colleagues and your colleagues. This Report, as well as numerous reports that individual bodies are obliged to set up, do not serve only to find some facts and only to see the representatives elaborate or see if they correspond to approximately the truth of that information. There is no doubt, and here the government unisoned opinion and this is indeed so on the left and right and middle sides that the report is written correctly, professionally and given the bad data should be said bravely. And this should especially be pointed out because many bodies that are obliged and authorized to act in many situations do not act that way. This is one normal situation where otherwise the country's normal situation should not be particularly highlighted, but how rare it is then should be commended. Because throughout history and not to mention some difficult and lead times, the bearers of bad news always went bad. However, that fact itself speaks of the fact that especially when such data is talking about the need to do something about it. But ever since we talk about how many employees we have on the number of pensioners, when that is all we have been talking about and when we in the Croatian Parliament talk about it, and when the government has been constantly drawing attention to this lately, the situation is only getting worse. So now here's the situation of one pensioner making 1.2 employees if we're going to talk in whole numbers, so it's almost equal to having a 1:1 ratio, which is almost a latent fatal situation, or a situation that can predict a fatal outcome. What is unequivocal and what should be a big signal to the government and the lamps that pensions are small and that people should not be intimidated by pensioners to be happy that there is no one in this crisis to take pensions. And from what base? So here we can talk about why pensions are small, even at this point, so it's no excuse for the poorest to be taken further, and these are workers, unemployed and retired. It is a trend that the country needs to have with its Constitution by the social state must greatly respect. Here we saw a miracle why employers treat workers like that, pensioners. Because the question of workers and labour rights is a fundamental issue later on for both pensioners and for retirement. They act because it's what the state has given them. So even then, I'd say ironically and cynically by the government, which is why employers act like that, appeal to their morals, consciousness, and there's state instruments, there are laws, rules they don't follow. And why are they acting like that? Because that's how they can behave, because they're aware that the state won't lift a finger to protect the worker and protect the pensioner, or the one who's going to retire tomorrow. And what's the situation with your head now, no matter what happens, you're going to retire. Why is this the situation? Now they're also ruling miracles. It was created in the 1990s by a tried-out model but that disappears not one day today. And it's now visible here and it's clear to everyone and here it's clear and confirmed. So, get out of retirement, and then still or people get pushed like it was a mass phenomenon in the '90s, so when people are forced into retirement. So people aren't their own free will. And it should be kept in mind. But that trend is not unfortunately stopped but continues. The pensions are low, and the salaries are low, and the relationship between the average salary and the average pension continues to harm the pensioners themselves and their small miserable pensions. We remember in the 1990s, because all this time reminds us of those years not because we're happy to go back in those years, but the danger of the same thing happening to us. There was news, there was a pension, the pensioners got pensions. Well, it's something normal, as we breathe air, as we speak our native language, something that's absolutely natural so it's perfectly normal for a pensioner to get his pension. He does not receive what someone gives him by his mercy, but that is what he or she has earned. It's the money that's earned. Today, news is that when the minister goes to neighbouring countries, now further and further, pension money and salaries have been obtained. The government is good because it's secured the pension money and the wages. It's not what the government has secured, it's what the pensioners earned, it's what the worker earned. This neighbor of mine says, come on, it's not like that, right? What are you talking about? The government has earned it. We all have to be aware of that, and that's the way it is. And the government has to work so that there is no concern that it does not happen by accident, or that it does not bring itself into a situation where it has become self-indebted under very unfavorable conditions. But to get back on the subject. The issue of pension reform is not a question of some partial measures we discussed last time. And precisely thanks to the determination of the public, the union, the union movement which thank God in Croatia in strengthening, that is, the Government has resolutely withdrawn another measure. And those best decisions the government made are exactly the ones she gave up on. Which is also not a small thing for this government and it also does not happen in itself, by some enlightenment on the way since the legal proposal from the Government is sent here to the Croatian Parliament, but when people are organised to rebel against unfair laws, against such laws that are against citizens. And the government is serving to pass laws for its own citizens. So, every pension reform, everyone agrees and unions, and pensioners, and retirement organizations that need reform. But the reform that will be on the plantations not only on our economic power or impotence, it's just one economic aspect. There must be an important and important and social aspect, a aspect of solidarity, so the Ministry of Intergenerational Solidarity, Humanity, Ethics and Morality. So let's remember that some in the past who even called themselves civilization have solved the problem of the pensioners. So if the eldest son took his mother or father to the mountain, he would no longer take care of them, that is, when the community did not tolerate it. You must also know you all here to take care of old people women. The Constitutional Court obviously did not have in mind when it was in its zeal to equalise that formal equality between men and women, he ordered them to retire under the same conditions. Children and old people are not taken care of by society because there are not enough mangers or kindergartens or nursing homes, mostly women are concerned. We all know that from our personal lives how we live them, so these are notorous facts. And not to mention that the gray zone here is also large because the state and local self-government units are not responding properly. So, in the plantings of new pension reforms, because we're also a nation, it's also unfortunately true, a nation that's getting older, which even goes extinct, and this relationship with the old is the primary relationship. With all this now excelling youth, determination, as one country treats the elderly, so will the degree of its civilization's achievement, its humanity, its ethics and the social principles that each and every country has written in its Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59018	Thank you. First of all, we have a correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59019	Mr. Vice President. A colleague incorrectly states: people are being evicted into retirement. It would be true, part of the people because much of it slowed down to huge severances, so they left, and many went away relatively young, could work for a long time. And one more thing is that we inherit a huge number of disability pensions from a time of socialism. Then it was trendy, shopping malls were working, it was easy to go into disability pensions. We inherited it all, this whole period to this day.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59020	Thank you. Now we have two replicas. First is the distinguished representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59021	Dear fellow Anticevic, you spoke of the responsibility of the government or the ruling majority to ensure the rules of the game in such a way that pensions can be paid. But I would also remind myself that we here in the Parliament for the ruling majority failed to pass a law by which non-payment of salaries would be a criminal offence, so it would not be necessary for people to seek their existence by leaving early retirement, there would be no today case of Kamenski workers who are here strikein' because they work a few months without getting paid, which is not in accordance with any ethical norms of contemporary capitalism nor the constitution declaring the Republic of Croatia as a social state.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59022	Replicate response, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59023	My colleague Franic, here I am, in my short ministerial term, proudest of this provision in that significant novel of the Penal Code. I'm sorry the Penal Code has changed several times, and every time it's been improved. Well, that's an open-minded thing to say. But what hurts us the most is that there was no place or time for this great social, human injustice, this crime, sin, which really cries out to heaven that non-payment of wages should not be sanctioned as a crime. Today we have heard from the ruling and several times exactly, and I will repeat once again what I have already said in my brief presentation, that by ruling even wonders why the businessmen behave like that. Well, because I can act like one. We, then, and as an opposition, have reiterated this proposal that non-payment of wages be a criminal offence for which we have prevented punishment, provided for jail time. We have received the opinion of a government that literally reads: the frequent amendment of the Penal Code leads to legal uncertainty. And whose legal uncertainty, that tycoon that gets rich, that's the robbery. He did not pay his worker, and in the end, he is incorrect to other economies who, in orderly, have such and in greater numbers, who meet their obligations neatly. And it's simply incomprehensible and it's unforgivable for this government just because it didn't allow it. Maybe she doesn't know how to put it together, maybe she can do better, but here's what our proposal still exists, she's got it there, she's got it in 2003 when HDZ didn't vote for the novel. But good, and the best decision is made with delay. There's time, this agony has to end.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59024	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59025	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, first of all, I'm going to say to my colleague Anticevic, what you said was that in the early '90s, the news was that the pensions had arrived, that they had been paid. Well, of course it was news, so we were at war, so it was a miracle how it was ever held in that financial system and the pension system. But since you're talking about the '90s, I'll only get back a few years before '90s. So I'll read it to you in the late '80s, late '87. the year says the article in Vesnik, the Council of SSH, which meant that you know it, says 50% of families, the family lives below the minimum of living standards. Even 50% of the family. Next, while you're talking about the '90s, I'll be a little late in the '80s, before the '90s, before Croatia's independence. So, says the following, as far as it goes, Vjesnik 28.12.In '88, living, it shows how invaluable it is that in nine months of this year, even a little more than 500 thousand workers in Croatia have not received even the lowest wage. Not even the lowest salary, that's '88, 12 months. And now imagine what we inherited in the '90s, the chaos we inherited in the '90s, the war we had, the war we imposed on us, the war we ended with a great victory in the Storm. And you're saying something about the beginning of the '90s, you have the right to follow the Union of Communists of Croatia, SKH SDP. That's the legacy you left behind, the one we're fighting. And to tell you what pensions were, what pensions were... You know what the pensions were? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Remember your pension? 129 marks or 9.29 mark pensions. 6 thousand people 9 marks received or 6 thousand people received 38 German pension marks, not to turn everything into kunas, not to mention what the average amount of salary was, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59026	Thank you. Your time is up. ... Please, it is a replica of the debate of the distinguished representative Antičević, who also spoke about the salaries. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. Replication response. Dear Representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59027	My friend, I would never tell you this, but I'll tell you now. I don't complain about my followers, and I don't complain about my inheritance, which was, that's what no one can escape or have anything to be ashamed of. But you, Mr. Matusic, are not a follower of the '90s because when the bombs over Dubrovnik started, you went to Frankfurt with the guitar, I hear you were writing beautiful songs, I don't know, they were probably beautiful speakers not included, they don't understand....the debate in the 21st century, after 17 years of government arming data from the '80s, to prove here to the Croatian people, Croatian citizens that you are still better than those of the 80s. Well, I think you're out of line, if that's what you're boasting.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59028	I'd pray we stick to it, I didn't want to intervene before, but now I have to, let's stick to the subject and let's not expand the subject. Don't throw it out of the bench, but you get the word, and then you talk, but you get to sign up. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59029	Thank you. Article 214 has been injured because my colleagues are not so... I was even under a working obligation, and even if you want to organize the first cultural event in Dubrovnik that was surrounded. [[You don't understand.]] And together I shared fate with all the other citizens of Dubrovnik at its most difficult time, so at least you could get information, so it's unnecessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59030	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59031	And you're cheating. That you lie and deceive in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59032	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59033	And what your husband Marinović did and how you acted as a minister, it is well known to the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59034	Thank you very much. Please. We have the final word. Please calm down. He has the final word of the Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the esteemed Mile Rukavina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59035	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I thank you all for the discussions with constructive, well-intentioned, with corrections, recommendations and all that you have contributed to making this report better for the next period, because if you have noticed me year after year, respecting the remarks that are, of course, possible to be respected, we are adding to it some newspapers, just like your proposal. I think that's what I said from the pay phone last time, and that's how it's gonna be in the future. I'd just like to explain a few things here. The peace system wanted me to or, but the fact is very complicated, complex, sometimes incomprehensible, so here's the last discussion on disability pensions, it may have caused unnecessary concern, because it's not exactly like that, I'd like to explain this to Mr. Zdenko Franić, and I don't know here's Mrs. MPs, I apologize for the name, Mrs. Lugaric, whether it is so, Maria Lugaric, a little bit to clarify this about disability pensions, not with intent, it's not even the me with MPs and MPs that I don't posemise, nor I have the right, but just to bring a little light into this report here. About these disability pensions. Nothing dramatic happened. If you have reports you have nicely ahead of you, page 6 says that at one point the number of disability pensions has increased dramatically, it is true, to 37,000, from 98 from 14 to 37, however it also writes beautifully in the explanation on page 5 of what it was about. If the number of new disability pensions had just increased for the reason that the Institute had been given a large task, it had to translate the disabled under the Pension Insurance Act, translate the beneficiaries into a disability pension, and that's what it says here. According to the Pension Insurance Act, the definition of disability is adapted to changes in the field of work, and compared to the definition by '98. more restrictive, etc. So this is the result of the translation of the right of former disabled people to work on disability pensions. No one's haired anything, it's just the enforcement of a legal obligation, and the Bureau did it. At the same time, one was observed here, not later, a colleague, Mr. Agent, calculated that the number of disability pensions is large. Right, he's big, he's one of the biggest. ... Yeah, yeah, yeah, okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's true that he's great, he's one of the biggest in the environment, but we need to take a look at the way things are. We're the number, when it comes to disability pensions, but not just disability pensions, but others, we've had a steady increase. Like '95. In the year they reached the dramatic 19 thousand, after this translation in '99. what I said was translated 37,000, they were slowly beginning to fall, to again and because of raising the age limit, because, if the age limit was raised, people remained more often in the world of work and there was also a greater reduction or loss of working ability, the number of disability pensions began to grow. However, the number of disability pensions cannot be seen as it rises dramatically, as the number of disability pensions increases in parallel to the growth of all pensions in the structure. Well, I've got here a table in front of me that interests me, and here I can show you, they don't grow any faster than the rest of them do. In fact, in 2000, we had a share of disability pensions in the total number of users 24.40%, and in the following year 2001. 24.18, then 2002. 23 and everything goes that way until 2009, when it's 23.19 again. So in this ten-year period, he's always on that line 24 or 23 percent. The truth is that it must be seen in the total share of all pensions in the Republic of Croatia and then it is not as they say. It was mentioned here to say that this could cause concern, which we wrote here on page 6, that disability pensions are more favourable than temporary retirement. That's a fact. Of course, we didn't think that we're doing our hairs now, so we're giving pensions to a disabled person by heart, but it's about the exercise of rights, because it takes a third of the job, and for early retirement it takes 35 or 30 years of training when it comes to women. That's all it's about. I accept criticism. We can put here that, to clarify that it's about exercising rights, not about the way. But good. Here. ... Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59036	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59037	... I'm correcting your claim that the disability pension situation is not dramatic. [[Specially enabled.]] The first is that they are in co-ordination with the total number of old and early pensions, however, the number of new and disabled pensions is doubled every 3.8 years. And second, if the information that 23% or 24% of new new pensions are disability pensions is not dramatic, then I don't know what's dramatic. Well, then we have catastrophic working conditions, or someone's getting into disability pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59038	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote once the necessary conditions are met. That's when we finished point four.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59039	We move to the 2009 report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting the conclusion which reads: "A report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2009 is accepted." Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? Check your vote, please. Thank you. The result? This report was accepted by the majority of 106 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59040	Now I suggest that points 4 and 5 and 6 of the United States be processed together because we've done it the same way in our first reading. Does anyone mind? No, there's no one. I therefore believe that this is what we have accepted and that we are moving on to the processing of these three points. 4. Final proposal of the Law on the State Judicial Council, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 576, 5. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 577 6. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 582 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the motions by mail. In the case of the adoption of these laws, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and Vice-President Vladimir Seks and representative Ana Lovrin to the Final Proposal of the Law on the State Judicial Council, P.Z.E. No. 576. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee to the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Courts of Justice of the P.Z.E. No. 577. And on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Attorney's Office P.Z.E. No. 582 amendments have been tabled by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice and Advocate Ana Lovrin. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, I don't. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the proposals? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Your Honor, Damir Kontrec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59041	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable MPs and MPs. Let me, on behalf of the promoter, briefly explain the important papers of these three legislative proposals. The reasons why we came to these laws are primarily in the fact that changes to the Constitution have significantly changed the role of the state-of-law, or state-law council that no longer elects the Croatian Parliament, but the whole matter should be prescribed by law. Following the final proposal of the Law on the State Judicial Council, the choice of members of the State Judicial Council was made in detail in the order of the judges, as regards representatives of the academic community, or the Croatian Assembly, was left to the academic community, or the Croatian Assembly, to determine the way in which their members would be elected. The same goes for the State's Attorney's Council. The second reading detailed the application procedure, the way in which judges, or state lawyers, are running, and the electoral procedure was also prescribed, i.e. the protection of electoral rights during the election procedure. A significant newspaper in relation to the solutions so far is the solution that members of the State Judicial Council, i.e. the State Attorney's Council, can't move forward, so they can't be elected to a senior court, or more State's Attorney's office, and it's also determined that they can't be elected even as the President of the Court, or the municipal, or county state's attorney. The question of the work of the State Judicial Council has also been settled, and you can be informed that special new premises have been provided for these bodies. The property card issue has been regulated. Therefore, the State Judicial, or State Attorney's Council, assumes leadership, but also control of property cards, both judges and state lawyers. The term of office of members of the State Judicial Council, i.e. the State Attorney's Office, is limited. They can't be in office for more than four years. Equally limited is the duration of the term of office of the President of the Courts who cannot be more than two times elected to the post. The laws stipulate that judges, i.e. state lawyers who have been appointed under current rules, remain on their duties for a period of five years as permanent appointment, and the transitional and final provisions provide that the procedures for the appointment of judges, i.e. state lawyers and their deputies, who have begun under earlier regulations, will be completed before the State Judicial or State Attorney's Council. As regards the amendment and addition of the Law on Courts, I would dare say that these amendments are more technical since the conditions for the appointment of judges, i.e. state lawyers, have been moved from the Law on Courts to the DSV Act, i.e. the Law on State Attorney's Office. What is more important in the Law on Courts is the internal structure of the courts, in particular with regard to the establishment of judicial departments for the conduct of criminal offences under the jurisdiction of the USKOK. Here, I have tried to explain in the shortest lines the most important things in these legislative proposals, and I must say that these final proposals are in line with the remarks of independent experts from Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59042	Thank you. Does he want to take a word from the board? Yeah. The chairman of the Legislative Committee, the esteemed Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59043	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me read the Legislative Committee's report on all three legislative proposals. And the first of them is the law of the State Judgment Council. At the 101st session held on 28 September 2010, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on the State Judicial Council. The Legislative Committee shall support the adoption of this Act, as well as the solutions to which certain provisions, and Articles 93, 94 and 95 thereof, have a feedback effect as regards the procedures, for the purpose of implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and its application, and to the text of the final proposal, the Committee shall submit the following amendments. The first of these shall be replaced by the words in Article 19(1) of Article 15(1), in conjunction with the content of the provision of Article 16(2) of this Act. The second paragraph of Article 93 is amended as follows: "The judges appointed in time of five years according to the regulations which were in force until the date of entry into force of this law continue to perform their duties as judges." With an explanation that a legal and nomotechnical statement is being completed. The second proposal for the Law, therefore, was discussed at the 101st session held on 28 September 2010 by the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Courts. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this Act and does not object to the proposal for the provision of Article 38 to have a feedback. The Committee shall submit the following amendments to the text of the final proposal. In the first sentence of Article 5, 7 and 23 of Article 5, Article 7 of the introductory wording in Article 23 paragraph 2 of the word "new" is deleted in the sense of the nomotechnical addition of the expressions. And on article 39, the words "1st September 2011 goidne! It is deleted by reason, nomotechnically supplemented, and it is unnecessary to repeat that a similar solution is contained in the second Law. And we have a report of three. The proposal for a law is the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State's Attorney's Office. Therefore, the Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this Act and does not object to the fact that certain provisions of Articles 47, 48 and 49 have a return effect, given that it is a matter of harmonisation with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The following amendments shall be submitted to the text of the final proposal. The first is in Articles 27, 31, 42 and 45. In Article 27 of the introductory wording in both cases, the word "new" is deleted in Article 31 of Article 42 and Article 45 of the introductory phrase. The second paragraph of Article 47 of Article 47(1) is amended as follows: "The deputies of the State's attorneys appointed in time of five years according to the regulations which were in force until the date of entry into force of this Act shall continue to renew the state's attorney's office permanently". So legal and nomotechnically supplementing the sentence. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. which reads "Article 42 of this Law, which adds Article 157a. ceases to be valid on 31 December 2012." Nomotechnically supplementing an expression in the light of the rule that no other provisions are laid down behind the provisions on the entry into force of a certain Act. For this reason, it is necessary to abandon its paragraph 2 in Article 55. I Amendment 4 to Article 55. In Article 55(2), paragraph 2 is deleted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59044	Thank you. I'd like to inform you all that we're going to be working somewhere today for 18 and 15 minutes to get the MPs to go to the Academy of the National Academy of the Police Day. We're still going to hear from the Justice Committee's esteemed representative, Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59045	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Justice Committee has discussed all three laws as a parent body. The Committee members supported, by a majority of votes, the Final Proposal for a Law on the State Judicial Council. The debate pointed out that Article 40 of the regulation governing the resolution of a member of the Council, before the end of the time to which it was elected, should be reviewed. Namely, this law prescribes three reasons for discharge from duty before the end of the time on which members of the Council are elected, which is if a member of the Council himself requests, if he is sentenced to prison and if he permanently loses his ability to perform his duties. The Committee’s view that the very fact that a criminal proceedings against a member of the Council should be initiated should be regulated and the possibility of suspending a member of the Council against which a criminal procedure has been initiated until its completion. In the light of this Act, it is necessary to delete the consent of the Minister of Justice in the appointment and resolution of the President of the Courts because the same obligation or authority of the Minister is deleted in the very text of the Law. After the debate, the Committee supported the adoption of this Law. The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts supported most of the votes without debate. In addition to most votes, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Attorney's Office supported most of the votes. Certain nomotechnical and content solutions have been proposed in order to improve the text of amendments and additions to the Law on removing certain ambiguities. It is suggested that, throughout the text, the amendments and additions of the Law are uniformly used by the term State Lawyer's Council or the Council's acronyms. The debate expressed the opinion that, in order to be more effective, Article 14 amending Article 103 should be amended in such a way as to request the opinion of the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia before submitting a motion for resolution. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Paragraph 5 shall be supplemented in a way that the election committee shall consist of the president and two members of the order of the deputy state attorneys. In Article 36 amending Article 149, it is necessary to regulate the suspension of a member of the Council in the event of a criminal proceedings pending the end of the criminal proceedings. In view of the fact that Article 29, which has been added to Article 144f, provides for the selection of members of the Council in the order of the University of Legal Sciences and the selection of members of the Board of Representatives, Articles 145 and 145o are not required in Article 31. After the discussion of the Justice Committee was held, it was unanimous with 10 votes, i.e. most with 10 votes in favour and one abstention, that he proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, with a proposal for an amendment as submitted. The amendment reads: "Extremely from the provision of paragraph 1 of this article in cases of application to the judge for the investigation of specific evidence actions or a proposal for the establishment of an investigative prison and evidence hearing and the conduct of other actions carried out in accordance with the Law on Criminal Procedure by the Judge of the Court of Justice of the County will be handled by the Municipal State Attorney's Office when it comes to criminal acts in the jurisdiction of the Municipal Court". This proposed amendment aligns the provision with the terminology and the Criminal Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59046	Thank you. We'll start the debate tomorrow morning. There'll be clubs first. First in line on behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ana Lovrin, Vesna Pusic on behalf of the HNS and HSU clubs, etc. This concludes today's session this afternoon. We'll continue tomorrow morning at 9.30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59047	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We're moving on with the session. On the agenda, three points of the agenda are united, those under headings 4, 5 and 6 concerning the Law on the State Judicial Council, amending the Law on Courts and supplementing the Law on the State Attorney's Office. We're discussing them together, so united. The debate is open and now for discussion. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ms. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59048	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and fellow MPs. So here is this package of laws which is now before us as the final draft of the law, the Law on DSV, the State Judicial Council, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorneyy are actually the implementation and development of constitutional provisions and the recent amendments to the Constitution that came into force on 16 June. We have already discussed these laws in our first reading here in July, immediately after constitutional changes take effect. Since these constitutional changes were also in the good part or most of the harmonisation of our legal system and regulations with the acquis of the European Union, they were the conditions for meeting the criteria for closing Chapter 23 – Justice and Fundamental Rights. So, by adopting these laws, we actually implement and implement the obligations taken by the negotiating position in this chapter, and with that position, other than the standards that tell us something, we guarantee that candidates for judges and state lawyers, that, in addition to the success of the judicial exam, additional knowledge tests and structured conversation and the verification of skills for the profession of judges and state lawyers will be conducted in the first phase, and that, in parallel, they will work and that they will establish a State School for Judges where special education and specific objective criteria for the exam will be implemented. I would say that this part is not about the mere technical takeover of the Directives and legal gains of the European Union for the simple reason that the European Union or the countries of the European Union have no single solutions and ready recipes, so the judges are called very diverse in the European Union, from being appointed or appointed by the King, Prime Minister, Minister, and that the Committee on Gender Equality would not object to me, this also applies to women in that position. So either the government or Parliament. But what are we doing with this? We are taking over one European principle, the principle of democratic states with regard to selecting the most qualitative, most capable before the appointment itself. So we introduce transparent and objective criteria that guarantee an impartial choice of the best. We have decided and committed to ensure that the choice of judges and state lawyers, as well as the bodies that will elect them and appoint them, are completely deprived of the possibilities of any political influence, i.e. the influence of the other two pillars of government, executive or legislative. In this respect, constitutional changes were completely in the process of electing judges, left out the parliamentary board of justice, which has so far given opinions on candidates, and in fact it wasn't some influence because it was mainly carried out in a way that checked the formal conditions, conditions for the judge. Parliament shall also be exempt from the role of Parliament in the sense of selecting members of the State Judicial Council and of the State Attorney's Council, except in the part where two members are elected by Parliament in the order of their representatives in those bodies. This law, and I am now talking about the Law on the State Judicial Council, but the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Attorney's Office are also identical, in fact, with all these provisions contained in the Law on the State Judicial Council in relation to the State's Attorney's Office being contained. Therefore, these laws also lay down detailed procedures and conditions for the selection of members and presidents of the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council, procedures and conditions for the appointment, transfer, resolution of judges and state lawyers and deputy state attorneys, strict responsibility and procedures and conditions for the appointment of the President of the Court. The State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council shall be established as a completely independent and independent body for the selection and appointment of judges, which I have already said by way of an amendment in the way of elections, so Parliament no longer elects members of these councils of the State Judiciary and Lawyer's Council to hold a completely independent choice for judges, for state lawyers between all state lawyers and deputy state attorneys and for representatives of the academic community, or university professors in the university community itself, and for representatives of parliament or two parliamentary deputies in parliament. The relation, to say the power of the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Office is 7 members of the court's office, i.e. deputy state attorneys and 2 members of the university professors' office and 2 members of the Assembly's staff, one of whom must be of opposition. Furthermore, I can say it's an extended base, an election base. So now the running is under a strict procedure set out in the law, before it was left to the Rules of Procedure and to a wide base of all 2,000 judges, or almost 600 deputy state attorneys. The independence of the State Judicial Council is also strengthened by the professionalisation of the secretariat, by strengthening the Staff and Financial Secretariat, by an independent budgetary position managed by the President of the State Judicial and State Attorney's Council. And that's important because we remember recently or some time ago that actually this State Judiciary Council had to come to the Ministry for stamps to be given to them in order to get rid of the mail. So that's one important personnel and financial reinforcement. The paper is to limit the term of office of a member of the State Judicial Council to one. So there can be no one renamed into that body. The paper is to determine the mandate of the body, not more individual members. The law resolves the question if one member expires before the end of the four-year term, that the one who enters the new member should be allowed to continue his term until the other members, that what has often happened to us that we must conduct these elections then within the mandate. It is also prescribed by law procedures and candidate bodies, the conduct of elections in the order of judges as I have already said, and the obligation for the academic community, i.e. the university to adopt a special rule on how to vote. So, and there's a wide-ranging basis for running and choosing between all the professors of law school as well as between all the judges and state lawyers. In this law, it would not be good because we have concentrated perhaps on the choice of DSV members but it would not be good if it did not go undetected, and this is also an extended section of the State Judiciary Council and the State Attorney's Council and one significant shift towards reducing the influence of the executive authority on the judicial authority, which is the choice of the President of the Court and of the State's attorneys. As you know, so far, the presidents of the courts have been elected first after the 2000 change and some, so it has become the Ministry of Justice's authority again, i.e. the Minister of Justice. Later amendments, i.e. shifts, regardless of what in practice this consultation has always been and has been with the President of the Supreme Court. This was the co-determination of the President of the Supreme Court and the Minister of Justice, and now the election of the president is being placed in the section of the State Judicial Council, as well as in the section of the State's Attorney's Office. So it doesn't appoint state attorneys anymore, the attorney general does that, but it does that to the State's Attorney's Council. It is also important news that in the part-round of the State Judicial Council the fall and the provision to participate in the training of judges and court officials, conduct the procedure of enrolment in the state school and final exams at the end of the state school. Therefore, the State Judicial Council is given an entirely new, large and significant role in education, both the candidate and the already appointed judges and deputy state attorneys. The law also introduced newspapers in relation to property cards, which is one newspaper in the department of the State Judicial Council and State-Law. So now the property cards, records of them and them are kept and held by the State Judiciary Council, and it checks them, and the law also extends the circle to a stern act the intolerance of the property card, i.e. the untrue display of the data in the property cards. Similarly, the law also found that property cards would be available to the public in accordance with specific regulations. Therefore, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data and other Regulations relating to it. So let me say it again. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support all these three laws because they are on track, or they are implementing what we have outlined, which we have established as criteria. So, in the criteria we submitted in June 2008 for the opening of Chapter 23, we have indicated what we will do to achieve an impartial, objective, effective judiciary. In those two years, we passed most of the laws and regulations that were necessary. These are I would say the last, almost the last of them and, of course, now for the closure of this chapter will require proof of implementation, i.e. the first results in the practice of applying these laws. As far as the law is concerned, there is something else that is very important in the Law on the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council. In this law, it is established as a legal obligation, practice, the current practice of the State Judicial Council, so that even with candidates appointed as judges and state lawyers before the work of the State School for Judges and State Lawyers and before the first candidates from that school come out and pass the final exam to carry out the mandatory testing and structured discussion, i.e. the examination of the skills and knowledge of the judicial, i.e. the state's attorney's office. In the last about a year, the State Judiciary Council has been carrying it out, but here it has now entered as a legal provision. Here and finally, perhaps as regards the Law on Courts, they are as the Proposer said mostly technically because the whole matter regulated by the Law on Courts referred to conditions for choice and advancement, resolution and choice of judges now being transferred to the matter of the Law on the State Judicial Council. But perhaps we should just remind ourselves that the amendments to these laws harmonize the sources of law, the basis by which and by which the courts judge according to the last constitutional changes. It may also be important to note that a provision which has now been laid down in the Rules of Procedure is also legal, which is the establishment of jump departments at four County Courts in Croatia that are already operating on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. But now it's a certain provision of law by law. So, and on the formation of these jump departments at the Municipal Court in the headquarters of the four County Courts. So, Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek. As regards the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, all amendments and additions relate mainly to the choice and conditions for members and presidents of the State's Attorney General who are identical to that of the State Judiciary Council and the selection of deputies, i.e. State's attorneys. And here, in the end, once again, I stress, these are rooted and significant changes. In fact, in a package of these laws, there is no need to forget to think about the Law on the Judicial Academy, which has already been passed, which fits these laws very well, given the state school, the implementation of education in the advancement and examination of the service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59049	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU, Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59050	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. It may not be quite clear in the Croatian public either, and I do not think it is clear to me that one part of our colleagues and colleagues in the Assembly that this is, by deep conviction, by my personal and club of HNS, HSU, the most important law we are passing in this assembly of Parliament. It may seem so benign, however, this should be laws in the first order of course of the Law on the State Judicial Council, but these two, but primarily the Law on the State Judicial Council, which is the basis for us to have a bad situation in the judiciary and which has been created for years not to continue, to end the perception of a bad, bad situation in the judiciary that occurred in the 1990s during the war years and after the war years of great political pressure on the judiciary, the strange things that were happening. The judiciary is certainly the most sensitive institution under bad circumstances because it is a fine mechanism. There were different times when it could be fixed perhaps by some different, faster ways, unfortunately they were missed. We have come to a situation where, in the opinion of the HNS and HSU, we have the possibility that although my generation may not be able to do much, because these are people who have largely achieved the highest level of professional advancement, and for that generation they should wait to retire. There are, of course, great people, but there are also extremely problematic ones. But what can be done, and we're here to try to make the most of what can be done, what can be done is to define clear transparent criteria, that word is spent a little bit, but in this case it's really important. To formulate the criteria by which everyone was professional, unprofessional, whether interested or uninterested, can also know whether someone is more qualified or less qualified to enter a profession, be sure to apply the same criteria, have a clear insight into those standards, and anyone who progresses within that profession, who has therefore not yet reached the highest level, can check whether he is progressing on equal and clear criteria, not only that person, but everyone will be able to verify it. That's the intensity of this new DSV Act. We have a happy environment, according to the HNS Club, HSU, that we have a happy feeling that we have a framework of accession to the European Union and that because of our accession to the European Union, we also have this external pressure, namely external incentive, not to say pressure, but fortunately and pressure, to do so. So let me briefly quote two of the most important criteria for closing chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental rights. First, to establish records of the results in the implementation, recruitment and appointment of judges, state lawyers and court presidents, on the basis of the application of unique, transparent, objective, and at national level applicable and in the laws of built-in criteria, and to ensure that the State School for Judges and State Lawyers begins with effective work. Second, to reform and strengthen the State Judicial Council and the State-Law Council, including through the appointment of professional members by profession, so that these bodies perform their key functions professionally, independently, and without political or other influence, and in particular in the appointment and management of the careers of judges and state lawyers, as well as in strict procedures. That's two, you can say two, but you can say a lot, a lot more when you work them out, two criteria, without which we, without which we, without which we fulfill Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental rights will not close. As you can see, these two criteria are relatively general. It is therefore expected of us, from the Croatian side to say the standard of one recruiting of new people in the profession we have fulfilled this, this and this way. The two career management measure has been met in the following ways. So we're expected to operationally define what that means and show what, how we fulfilled it. As I said, it is very important that we have already installed some of these things in our negotiating position, and therefore we cannot close negotiations before we meet this in concrete terms. And for that I have to say, we have to make sure that we don't lock them up, and I also have to say and we will. We ourselves will make sure that the negotiations in this chapter are not closed until the conditions that are generally stated here are met in terms of standards, but frankly, the criteria here only help us. As regards the HNS-HSU club, it is not the main reason and is far from the most important reason why it was measured and the requirements in the negotiations with the EU. It's only help, the main reason every citizen and every citizen of the Republic of Croatia who's ever entered or entered the courtroom and has dealt with the court. He knows everyone who came out of court had a feeling I wouldn't necessarily say that he didn't have justice because it often happens in court and maybe it's too high a request, but he didn't experience the law. Anyone who's ever left the courtroom with the feeling that it wasn't being acted under the law understands why it's important. Anyone who's waited 5, 10, 15 and over for a court ruling, every company, small or large, who's lost money or failed because she's waited 10, 15 and over for a court ruling knows why this is important. And if directly Croatia will have some tangible and Croatian citizens have some tangible benefits from entering the EU before the economic effects and before all other effects, then it is a chance to reform the judiciary and to have the judiciary that judges by law, which works and in which, unlike all other professions, it is extremely important to select an elite. So they select the best people in the profession to be judges in the first place and state lawyers. Because that's the guy, if you want favors, the type of service society that's the key to being the best in him. The law that is before us, first of all here, I am now referring to the Law on the State Judicial Council, has made a huge shift from what we had. Roughly speaking, the current State Judiciary Council, which appoints all judges and decides on progress, has been elected by the parliamentary majority. So, by the political will of the majority in this House. The expression is also the result of a reflection of that political will. What this law changes is that, in this sense, the State Judicial Council will never be elected in this way again. We at the HNS-HSU club think it's a great first step because we don't want an institution that chooses judges to be chosen by anyone's political will or ours or ours. Because it gives rise to the fact that it has been chosen by some other criteria even if it has been the most well-intentioned and best those who have a political majority in parliament. So, this law stipulates that the State Judiciary Council will elect its majority of judges, all judges in Croatia, among themselves by a secret vote. 2 university professors of legal science, all university professors of legal science in Croatia with a secret vote between themselves and 2 parliamentarians, one from the position, one from the opposition, parliamentarians here in Parliament. I'm sure it won't turn dramatically overnight, but it's a huge step and it's an important and necessary step to reform anything at all. However, as usual the devil is in detail. So this law should define objective and verifiable criteria for recruiting people into professions, so people who enter and become judges for the first time and for progress. Just for a little while, let me say on behalf of the HNS-HSU club as far as we're concerned, we think four things are crucial to meeting the preconditions in this area for closing the chapter on justice and fundamental rights. At the same time, four things that will guarantee us that we have a functioning judiciary. We have proposed according to this and the amendments that you will receive or may have already received on benches that are very specific in Article 54 of this Law which discusses the criteria for entering people in the profession. The first criterion mentioned in the law is the test, the result of the test. Great, we support it. Second, they get 100 points. The second criterion is a discussion in which, under the current provisions, DSV members would have to give 50 points to the candidate on the basis of their own assessment of what kind of candidate has a sense of justice. Guys, let's be serious. We've known each other here, we've worked together for three years. Could you judge each other with a sense of justice? You can't. And this is half an hour, let's say the talks where a commission will evaluate, so that the most fantastic Carolina Academy that awards Nobel Prizes will assess someone's sense of justice, the ability to solve conflicts, the ability to make decisions for 50 points. He won't. It's a space for arbitration, it's a space, they're all the most honest and the best, but this is my son from the neighbors. People, this is a moment too important for us. We can't put it into the law right now. And that's why the HNS and HSU club suggests that when you select people, you get that amendment or you get, in selecting people, 100 points for the test results maximum, 40 points for the average score on the study. The average rating on the study is someone might be in the mood for one exam, well on the other, but the average is over 4 or 5 years. And that's where you get one as real a picture. I'm not saying that diligence and evaluations are on the exam that are the best measure. There must be people who are very smart, and they don't have the best grades. But there aren't many. Mostly people who are smart know and try to get good grades, and maybe, of course, a lot, a lot more than that. But mostly they make an effort to get good grades. And let's leave some room ok. And for this artistic impression, we're proposing 10 points from the conversation. 100 points max from the test, 40 points from the score and 10 points from the interview. You will see in the second amendment which, in this article too, is missing something that we have assumed as an obligation in the negotiating position, which is to publish a ranking of candidates on the Internet, publicly. Without that, there is no closure of the chapter because it is in the negotiating position, so we propose it here with the amendment that has been dropped. Just a few more details, since I've only run out of time one more thing to say if you'll excuse me. This Law on the State's Attorney's Council is laid down here for the State's Attorney's Council to be elected within a year. My colleagues and colleagues can't, they can't. We plan to close this chapter at the latest in early March. I hope if God gives in February, but at the latest in early March. We cannot close the chapter of the judiciary and fundamental rights without choosing, and this is this track record that I mentioned in the standards, so the result of the implementation, as stated in the criteria. We must choose a new State Judicial Council before we close the chapter. Therefore, our amendment proposes that it be no later than 4 months after the entry into force of this law, which means no later than February. My colleagues and colleagues can do it. This doesn't take much wisdom, this doesn't take much time, this takes strong political will. As far as the HNS and HSU clubs are concerned, if our amendments are accepted, and I don't think they're ours, I think they're all you. When you look at them, you'll see that these are the amendments that we all use and make us do one big step today, look at them. I ask you on behalf of the HNS and HSU Club to support them, and in that case we will jointly support these laws and close the negotiations. If we do that, it's a necessary but sufficient condition for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59051	Thank you. It is up to Ms. Agent Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59052	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The SDP Club will support the Final Proposal of the Law on the State Judicial Council, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts and the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Attorney's Office. So, as is known from the opening words of government representatives and previous cubes, these laws want to come as objectively as possible to judicial personnel, i.e. to the judges and the state's attorneys. It's of crucial importance. For what? Because if someone comes to the judiciary as a judge or as a state attorney, by the structure of deoxyribonucleic acid or ribonucleic acid, they eat in good relations with this judge, the President of the Court or the State's Attorney, then you can imagine what his decisions will be. Did any of us judge in his legal case such a judge, who came at the beginning of political corruption? Of course not. What will his decisions be? How much will they be on their own? And in the laws so far, even in practice, it tries to change that state. Everyone else's rules since Roman times want a judge who is independent, educated and just to judge his legal affairs. The question of expertise and knowledge is even assumed by that old principle of "Iura Newt Girl," the court knows the law. But also moral plantings of such persons must be unquestionable. That's a lot more than you're looking for for for any government official. Because society gives judges and state lawyers the highest authority. A country that is safe in itself is not afraid of an independent judiciary, which knows that it does the right thing, which knows that it does and makes laws for its citizens, is not afraid of an independent state attorney, is not afraid of an independent judge. He is not afraid to give him even broad authority, but he is also not afraid to ask them for adequate responsibility. Unfortunately, we're until 1997 to so-called. The criminal mini-reforms had a criminal offence against the court and another judicial officer, then it untraceably disappeared. That's not good. Judges should be given great authority, as well as state lawyers, but then seek responsibility if they do not knowingly comply with the law and do damage to the individual, and thus they do so to all citizens and to the Republic of Croatia. So to recapture this opening part, political corruption in any segment of society is destructive, but if it nests in the judiciary then it is destructive. That is why we believe if these laws and amendments are passed and even amendments that have already been proposed and adopted some suggestions and if we are all persistent, these are the fundamental plantings of society, this is not really a matter of political commitment, although there is almost no law in which the ruling policy, which is its right, does not cross its political thoughts and ideas into a particular law, and this is quite normal and legitimate. But here, in this law, with this kind of law, with the judiciary, there is no left, right and middle, and that is what we need to agree on. And as long as there are conflicts here, that judgmental authority as the third branch of the government used to use, knowingly or unconsciously, because it destabilised, because it was deconcentrated in its basic plantings and about its basic transmission of the application of the Constitution and the application of the law. So how to get to the person who will be a priest of justice. They have to be judges and state lawyers. They are judicial officials, and in 2003 we increased their salary by 30% to the state's attorneys and evened them with the salaries of judges of the same rank. Of course, there is still a need to think about better conditions. It's not questionable, as much as the improvements have been made for the last 10 years on a continuous basis, but it's not enough anyway. But it can never be an excuse for immoral or illegal conduct. Such a person cannot look at an hour, it is not a job from 8 to 16 hours or in the summer period from 7 to 15 hours. They are officials, authorities and we are all obliged to raise their authority because only when they have to have respect and authority in people will they also appreciate judicial decisions. It's simply one now-witched circle, mistrust is great, the mood of people very critical of the judicial authority, it needs to be opened, but equally these decisions must be understandable and acceptable and only in such a way will people and respect them. In the final draft of the law, now is the time to say something very concrete, given that it is the final proposal of the Law on the State Judicial Council, here is the law of this first law that we see that the State Judiciary Council, apart from its role to appoint a person who enters the judiciary, is talking about their promotion, but has received another important task, which is education. So... which is not small and it is a very important function, so here in Article 1 there is room for this phrase as well as other questions related to the work of the State Judiciary Council to stand exactly the kind of important task that, with this amendment to the law, the training of judges and, in particular, emphasizes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Article 5 speaks of the fact that members of the councils elected over a period of four years cannot be elected in parallel twice, from two mandates, which is quite and understandable. However, as it is now with the existing State Judicial Council or the State Attorney's Council, whether such a mandate will be included as already used or not. There may be a lot of controversy about it and it should be seen or said or verbally that the motionary explains it to us if he does not feel that there is a need not to incorporate it and say it, at least in the transitional and final provisions he does not say. Because that's already causing a fight with both the State Judicial Council and the State's Attorney's Council. That's where the opinions are shared. Therefore, which will be members of the State Judiciary Council by the judges shall be decided by the judges themselves. It is no longer decided by the Croatian Parliament which is certainly good. However, as objective as they are, I would say to the limit, here there was now a question of how to score, whether to give the earlier grades a greater emphasis or work done, that is even less important. However, those who will decide, judges, so their colleagues who will decide who will enter the profession, who will be eliminated if it does not meet the high standards, who will advance, but for these there are no criteria and that is one big, big deficit. Therefore, people who will evaluate others here have come by unclear criteria or by purely lobbying who will vote for whom. There are no criteria for those who will enter as members by the profession into the State Judiciary Council. That is why this deterioration is compared to the existing situation where the Croatian Parliament decided on it, and we all came to a level that was almost a consensus that people would be chosen. We also respected the profession, but here we often saw celebrities who proved themselves to be principled, legally working that they were successful. Now that mechanism is gone, maybe it's better that the profession itself determines, but there must be some criteria because people who are beyond average, judges who have a 180% standard or even greater standard, who rule a little bit, who are principled, who are not let's call it what may be somewhere in virtue policy, but here is the flaw, which is not flexible, which adheres to the law, you're not popular with your colleagues. The president of the court that is replacing, which leads to the disciplinary proceedings of the judge who is his task, is not popular among his colleagues. They're the best ones to say, so good is, that the conformists behave in their midst. Now that such a person, because it would be ideal, these persons are rare but there are and serve them proudly to the judiciary and to the whole of Croatia. How do you ensure that those persons, that the waist recognizes them? And that's why this is a big shortage of this. We have given great authority to them, and there are no criteria for those persons who are simply masters of the judiciary now. So far it's been the president of the court, he's had nothing to say about it for a long time. It was his personal responsibility then. Now there's a collective body here that won't have such an individual responsibility that it can be called. For what? As much as they are given objective criteria still, so there is a value assessment among similar candidates to choose from. I believe there is time to intervene several provisions even here until the vote. In the case of the appointment of judges and the promotion of judges, the great danger threatens not to close the profession itself, not to allow other lawyers who have proven themselves both in corporate law and in some other areas, especially in some specialised knowledge of which the judiciary is a deficiting knowledge of trade law, the detection of economic crime. So, with this modern conditions of management, it's a turning point. Such personnel are still in the justice system and should also allow such lawyers to enter the judiciary and even into several courts. Such criteria, therefore, refer to what is required of a judge applying for a senior court in this Article 55. So already in the beginning it's set for a judge which is also normal for someone to seek a career within the profession itself. However, the judiciary must be opened, and in such a way we see here in article 54 that it will write to you. Whether they are candidates and related, therefore not only for primary entry into the Municipal Court but also for higher levels. So, this provision is 54th and 55th, and I'm looking at it that way, but I think it needs to be more clearly marked. We know what the troubles have been and what's not good. The strict procedure is talked about and how disorderly the judge is acting on judicial duty. And what does that mean, messy? Is it messy that he didn't once write a decision when he had to and delivered it to the parties or in 10 cases or so? We also see with responsibility that it's diverse, that someone only answers because of one case. Someone wrote 50 convictions or 100 or 200 and never equipped them within the time limit. So that is, the time has come to take this stupendous act too if he has not acted according to the law. Because if strangers, if in law, if we've made a consensus, a law on litigation is passed. Nobody respects him alive. And this is what we tolerate. He says, if the judge does not produce without a reasonable reason, not by sending a court ruling, the law said when a court ruling must be made, written and sent to the parties. People can't understand that they're responding because they've broken some rule of law, and they're being tried by a judge and they read the same thing. They've got plenty of time to read, so the judge hasn't sent them any decisions. That it is so sad to see and to change the Law on Courts, and there is one condition as much as we have passed the laws by consensus which have been an improvement in the sense of speeding up procedures to recognise here in the Law on Courts in a single norm, saying that these laws are not respected and that even a greater period of six months is now being sought here for obsolescence, and so far there have been three months. I think it's precisely in this provision of article six that talks about the situation that remains in our judiciary. Namely, what it's about. In order to extend the time in which a directly senior court is required to decide on a request for protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. That's the norm we've brought. If the judge drags on the case, of course it's not the Middle Ages because the statutes said that such a judge would beat himself up, we tried to protect the party from addressing the higher court directly or in the extreme case of the Supreme Court to give him a fair fee regardless of the outcome of the dispute. Now the time is extended and the fee is granted. It means it doesn't work anymore either. It's a confession of a situation. We support it but it clearly shows that the laws we have passed in order to speed up the process are not respected and that is what needs to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59053	We have one correction, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59054	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Antičević incorrectly said that in both responsible places someone comes on the basis of the structure... ribucleic acids. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It comes on the basis of criteria as counterpart Pusic said, but I thought that DNA identification in other places was necessary. But if you call her in this important area, then God help. But I am glad that you have also expressed your high opinion of the priest, and you are calling on the priest. I certainly see it as a constant need for confession on your part. But it should also be consistent in that part where certain church rights should be respected then they should also be respected and executed, and not as your colleague says, one colleague will not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59055	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59056	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm not re-emphasizing a law expert rather than a medic, but given this important subject as our colleague said clearly that the HDSSB club needs to talk about this. In fact, the judiciary is one of the pillars of society. So we have an executive, legislative and judicial pillar of society and public perception as they say and my predecessors are very important about this segment of justice as an independent, as something to say autonomously in decision-making and judgment in order for citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian people to get the impression that and not only that, but to gain confidence in judicial institutions. As a result, whether the incentive from the European Union and the course of the accession process to the European Union is in any case welcome, this proposal of Law 576 is bearing the label P.Z.E. Whether it is copied or modified would be given to speak for the domestic to say use. I don't want to talk about it anymore. But when it comes to the text of these laws, I must also say that I am the minister of justice, so the former one, about 5, 6 months ago, asked how much the Republic of Croatia is losing money from the budget because of the legal proceedings, then because of the proceedings before the International Court of Justice in Strasbourg, and because of the proceedings of dislocation of the court from certain municipal courts to other courts, e.g. from Zagreb to Slavonski Brod, Slavonski Brod in Požeg or Đakovo etc. I know of a large number of examples, so that figure, that sum that I've been told about it, has been summed up for all of these cases by tens of millions of kunas or euros, however you wish. So it is clear that the budget of the Republic of Croatia and our taxpayers are, in fact, damaged for these things that I hope have been happening, as well as for the case in the judiciary. The point of actually passing these laws is to reduce the influence of the executive and legislative authority, so the representative body on the judiciary. That is why I would refer to a few articles in the proposal of the Law on the State Judicial Council which I consider to be actually the most important part or the most important proposal of the law of all three of these to say the law concerning the judiciary. But that's for example. Article 51, which states in paragraph 3 that, among other things, I will not read the whole item, a respected lawyer with a legal examination and at least 20 years of work that has been proven by his professional work may be appointed to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, among other things. Or a lawyer with 15 years of work experience, after a legal trial. We know that, after how long, how long it takes to complete a college and pass a judicial exam. So when we take these relationships in this time form as they are highlighted here, it turns out that actually the Supreme Court judges can only become those who have graduated law and appointed judges in the former state, so SFRY. It turns out that no judge can be appointed precisely because of this provision by a judge appointed in an independent, independent Republic of Croatia. This is also now an example of the current Supreme Court, where some 40 judges 39 have just come from, thus appointed judges in the former system. Isn't there, I ask the ministry, proven youth, professional, honest lawyers and lawyers who have, say, ten years of employment? Do we express our mistrust toward such young, professional, capable lawyers, such provisions? Or did someone write it not to say it on purpose, to remain the same structure as it is now? And not just that. Members of the Supreme Court shall also participate in the formation of the State Judicial Council through the Commission. You have an article 6 that sits on the committee and how it is decided, and whose majority is, therefore, the majority of the members of the Supreme Court, along with the rest of the county courts, presidents, etc. It is therefore a general session of the Supreme Court, with the presidents of the county courts. Have we thought about that, gentlemen? I'm not going to say anything further, but let's just think about it a little bit. Furthermore, when it comes to the way judges are chosen, I agree to avoid as much subjectivity as possible for those who decide to elect judges. As a result, it is good that candidates from the written shop can score 100 points, but it is not good paragraph 5 that the oral conversation, which is later held by the candidate, is capable of reaching a maximum of 50 points. Why do I say that? A friend of mine was at the interview after a good, excellent test in one bank, where I was asked to tell a counterworker, and when he was at the interview he showed excellent and eloquence and everything, but he was told he was too good to work on a bank counter. A very interesting assessment, and to look elsewhere, and to have those to say weaker, with weaker knowledge and weaker eloquence, etc., he speaks two languages too well and that's not good for a bank counter. I'm not saying this about justice, but somewhere else, but you see, I'm saying that there can be a high degree of subjectivity in deciding. That's why I would also accept what Mrs. HNS's suggested that she should also be clearly evaluated in so far's painful training of lawyers, as well as the doctor, because here's when I came to surgery, to specialize, and I was asked what little grades you had in medical school. Well, I said four. You never said one thing to a surgeon. But then it should be, some of them are nerds for internal or so on, but in the judiciary, so in this segment it would really be good, as it was in the university's admission exams, as it is said otherwise, in my day there was a reception exam, so grades from high school or high school are graded, and especially that it is necessary to evaluate candidates who have completed colleges, and who have four and five years of schooling, and their ensuing, their knowledge, their efforts during college. We don't have one here, so we don't have a single item to talk about it. Is schooling significant, so is learning important for the formation of man, expert, and even in the judiciary? It is. I think it is, and as others think, I don't know. And when we talk about this, independence, when we talk about the independence of the judiciary, then it is true, and when it is spoken of, the oath which is written in Article 61 is written on the oath of the judge, which the judge and signifies, therefore, swears that the judge will perform judicial duties and shall abide by the Constitution, the law, international contracts and other valid sources of law, judge by best knowledge, conscientiously and impartially, and protect the integrity, sovereignty and state structure of the Republic and the Constitution and the law of established freedom and the rights of man and citizen. I would almost add to this well-timed definition, and led by example recently to include even dignity and the state structure of the Republic of Croatia. Why am I saying that? Namely, there are currently 1880 judges in Croatia. So there are 40 judges in the Supreme Court. And how, when I have already stressed the dignity of the Republic of Croatia, how else do I explain the verdict of one county court in Zagreb and also the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, which says that I quote: "in 1991, according to the positive rule of law, Croatia was not legally able to form its own Armed Forces, but the Armed Forces in Croatia were JNA troops." Yes, yes, it says so in the judgment of the Zagreb County Court. Yes, gentlemen, on page 24th and 25th of the verdict to the gentleman who is now in Sarajevo's prison or detention. And that is confirmed by the Supreme Court of the Croatian gentlemen. On June 2, 2010, we, or the late President Tudjman, lined up the National Guard Assembly on May 28, 2001. Who died in Borovo Selo? Who burned the cells in Slavonia? Who died on Plitvices? People who must have been in the civil war, that's how it turns out. The civil war in Croatia, or Savo Strbac would better write such a verdict, and you can imagine a little about justice and such justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59057	Thank you. At 10:33, it's been 10 minutes. We're moving on to an individual debate. First Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59058	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State, I see the Minister is gone, he was here. Well, as we've heard, there's been a united discussion about a package of these three laws, so that's actually the same matter being arranged. Matter relating to compliance with constitutional changes. Therefore, the debate is united on the final proposal of the Law on the State Judicial Council, amending and supplementing the Law on Courts and amending and supplementing the Law on State Attorneys. As already said in the debates, it is highly important laws, which are of paramount importance for the closure of Chapter 23 for EU accession. I will focus in my debate on the Final Proposal of the Law on the State Judicial Council which the Croatian Parliament discussed in its first reading in July this year. Therefore, the most significant newspaper of this proposal is the result of changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia since 18 June 2010 which have significantly strengthened both institutionally and organisationally the position of the State Judiciary Council with a view to ensuring its full independence as a result of strengthening the independence of the judgment in relation to legislative and executive power. The law therefore provides for a procedure for the appointment of judicial officials in such a way that they are fully managed by the State Judicial Council, which will decide on the appointment, promotion, transfer, resolution and strict responsibility of the judges, including the appointment of the President of the Court of Justice, so on the duties of the President of the Court. Since the amendments to the Constitution have removed the power of the Croatian Parliament to elect members of the State Judicial Council as well as powers to give an opinion in the process of appointment and resolution of judges. This law proposes that 3 Supreme Court judges, 2 judges of the County Court and one judge of the Municipal and Specialised Courts be elected to the council of judges. So we see that there are different views and suggestions related to this proposed council composition. They should certainly be well considered and, of course, chosen by one who will best represent the composition of the judicial structure, so the composition of the judicial authority. In addition to these 7 judges, the State Judiciary Council consists of two other university professors who choose, which I think is very good, all the professors of law school and two parliamentary representatives appointed by the Croatian Assembly of which is one of the opposition. The election of members of the National Judicial Council of the Judges would be conducted by the Committee for the Selection of Council members and election committees. The law accurately prescribes a way of appointment and composition of committees and election committees. As has been said by the amendments to the Constitution in the jurisdiction of the DSV, with the appointment of judges, the appointment of the President of the Courts has been appointed, so this law regulates the procedure for their appointment as well as the resolutions. So far, as we know, the presidents of the courts have been appointed by the minister of justice and there have been proposals in preparation for this law that the minister of justice is giving an opinion on the appointment of the president of the courts, but at a later stage, it has given up which I also consider to be good. So the policy will, in this way, completely remove itself from the process of appointing the President of the Courts. Therefore, that provision also shows determination in strengthening the independence of the judiciary. I also consider a good newspaper that is being introduced by this law that the President of the Court can carry out that duty no more than 2 term of office consecutively. And the mandate as usual, as it has been so far, lasts four years. In relation to first reading, one of the papers of this final bill is to place the council in charge of the management and control of the property cards of judges as well as the conduct of personal eyewitnesses. It has also been found that it will be considered to be a firm part when the judge does not submit the property card or falsely demonstrates the information about his or her assets. So, of course, I also consider the introduction of these provisions into the law to be good and necessary. And I will finally say that I support the adoption of this Law on the State Judicial Council, because it was a quality law which undoubtedly strengthens the position of the State Judicial Council in terms of its greater independence, and thus, as I said, ensures a higher level of independence and independence of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59059	Thank you. Mr. Representative Emil Tomljavnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59060	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, the minister was here, and I welcome him, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here we have before us in the final version or final proposals of the Law on the State Judicial Council, the State Law on Courts, and all three laws absolutely need to be supported. I agree with all the predecessors who found the basis or foothold to support these laws in two basic things. The first thing is, therefore, Chapter 23 – Negotiating criteria, which the Republic of Croatia has accepted as a commitment to embezzlement in its laws on the one hand. However, I would point out the more important thing to me, and that is that all these legislative proposals are actually based on the provisions of the newly declared Constitution and Articles 124, 125, where, first of all, the basis of constitutional provisions has been worked out, and then these constitutional provisions are fully elaborated in the proposed laws. As for the quality of the proposed laws, I would agree with all those who have already said that these are quality provisions, that they should absolutely be supported, that they are also represented in terms of regulating this power of absolute improvement. And as for the specific provisions, allow me before I say which principles are first developed by constitutional provisions in relation to concrete legislative proposals. I think it's very important to stress, because it's about the principle of independence. The Constitution defines the State Judicial Council as "an independent and independent body that ensures the independence and independence of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia". Therefore, it is a constitutional provision that we have as such defined in the law itself, so in the provision of Article 2 of the proposed law. Furthermore, the principle of independence, because "the State Judiciary Council, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, decides independently on the appointment, promotion, relocation, resolution of the responsibilities of the judges and the President of the Court of Justice, other than the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia". And we have this principle and this constitutional provision elaborated in the legal provision in Article 42. Then we have developed the principle of impartiality, because of course the State Judiciary Council makes all decisions in an impartial manner, based on the criteria prescribed by law. It may need to be stopped here a little, because these criteria are therefore very important in the appointment of anyone or any institution, so when a choice is made, the fact that the criteria are developed by law, which means that they represent a legal obligation. We find them by the provisions of Articles 48 to 54, and of course it should be supported as very high quality legal solutions. And those discussions that have been on the trail of amendment remarks in terms of improving these criteria, or even as more transparent and clear, more precise criteria are said, my opinion is that they should be supported if, of course, they contribute to this very impartiality or the possibility of better decision-making in the selection of judges. Finally, and not less important, the principle and constitutional and legal provisions, relating to expertise. So, the State Judiciary Council also participates in training and training judges and other judicial staff. So, this constant education, training is also one of the essential preconditions for having very, very good and good legal solutions in this area and in this segment. When I step away from these concrete constitutional provisions legal solutions, regardless of whether we talk about the Law on the State Judicial Council, the State Attorney's Office, the Law on Courts, when we would in our entirety analyze what it represents in the shortest lines that fundamental difference between the previous solutions or the solutions offered so far, I think we could come to the sense of three basic or most impressive elements. The first of them is that we now have the proposed situation that members of the State Judicial Council are no longer the crucial, crucial role of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament, there are no powers in this sense of the Justice Committee as a home working body, and certainly the fact that the composition of the State Judicial Council is also added to this, in a way that the Council has 11 members, of which 7 judges, 2 university professors of legal science, 2 parliamentary representatives in the legal provision that one parliamentary representative is an opposition political option. The other thing I would like to stress in this regard is the newspaper, so the legal solution is a legal provision based on the State Judicial Council's work on the appointment and resolution of the President of the Court. Therefore, the Law on Courts no longer regulates these issues in this regard, and of course the need to delete these provisions on the Law of Courts of the one hand, and on the other hand, a solution has been proposed to support the basis by which the State Judicial Council appoints and resolves the President of the Court, in the light of the attached opinion of the competent judicial council, the President of the Court of Justice and the Minister of Justice, on a time of 4 years, and may be re-elected by that deadline. And if we put all of this on one pile now, so that we get the answer to which we ask the question and what constitutional and legal solutions that we actually guarantee and we need to guarantee, and I think that the debates so far have just gone in this sense, in this direction as well as quality proposed legislative solutions, so ultimately we would have a situation to appoint judges of the sea, we should and now we have constitutional and legal bases for it to be deprived of any political influence and that in this area and in this segment, criteria of expertise, criteria of quality exercise of judicial duty should come and there will be full expression. And in that sense, I absolutely support all three of these legal proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59061	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Josip Salapic's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59062	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. We have before us three judicial laws that are a condition for the closure of Chapter 23, the final conclusion of negotiations for the accession of our country to the European Union. In my debate, I will refer to the Proposal for a Law on the State's Attorney's Office as regards the election of members of the State's Attorney's Council. For me, this final bill is very important. It is good that the final bill includes all those recommendations and all those proposals that we discussed in the first reading, and it is good that this law introduces a newspaper, especially with regard to objective and transparent criteria, principles of justice and impartial procedures when it comes to selecting members of the State's Attorney's Board. This law therefore regulates the appointment and selection of members of the State Attorney's Board, deputy state attorneys, the election and appointment of state lawyers, the implementation of strict procedures for members of the State's Attorney's Office and the State's Attorney's Council and all that concerns the application procedure, the conditions which may be elected as a member of the State's Attorney's Council and what is most important in this procedure to finally introduce and verify candidates. Since we have sought the excellence of our candidates, the independence and impartiality of the Croatian judiciary, and this is just another law that confirms our fight, as well as the recommendations of the Mission of Independent Experts, as well as that of our Government as well as that of perfection that seeks justice so that we can finally complete our ultimate goal, which is the ultimate fight against corruption. To be adequate in this part of the judiciary, as well as through the State School for Judicial Officials, through the judicial academy, and through this whole set of laws that we have passed after the change of the Croatian Constitution, this is our goal which will enable that last door, the final step for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. I also support in this law that members of the State Attorney's Council and all deputy state attorneys and state attorneys should hand over their property card, property card of their spouses and their children so that the process can be monitored by the people working in the State's Attorney's Office and the deputy state's attorneys. I particularly support that a college of extended county attorneys is being held, the State Attorney's Office is having a debate on who are the best candidates, and that this candid procedure really gives the opportunity to choose objectively and transparently those who will encourage the State's attorney in the future to protect the law, the interest of both the Republic of Croatia and all of our citizens. So I support a whole set of these laws, especially these amendments that we have made in this final proposal of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office. Here's my vote when there's a vote on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59063	Thank you. HNS Club, HSU, 5-minute debate, Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59064	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. In view of, in the opinion of the HNS and HSU, the exceptional importance of these laws ahead of us, allow me to say a few more words finally on behalf of the club. With these laws we strike the foundation, the basis of the different functioning of institutions in Croatia, we give ourselves a chance to first raise the quality of the trial, the second start of building the trust of people living in this country in courts which, as you know, is very little or nothing, and we give ourselves the opportunity to hit the basis for creating a favourable investment climate. Through this we contribute and meet the conditions not only for the criteria in Chapter 23. Justice and fundamental rights, but to meet the criteria in Chapter 8, our second heavy standard, the Competition, because there is also the role of courts, the functioning of courts and the quality of the trial as one of the essential criteria. In my basic debate on behalf of the HNS and HSU, I did not mention that just as important criteria for selecting new people who enter the judicial and state-owned law profession are, so are the criteria for advancement within these professions. Fortunately, the criteria for progress are already very clearly defined in one of the earlier versions of the Law on Courts, so they are already in force. This Regulation shall enter into The law on courts, not this amendment and the additions that are now under discussion, but one previous version that remains in force where it was worked out in 16 points are the criteria for advancement within the profession and the basis of these 16 points is also a methodology. The methodology was developed by the State Judiciary Council, it can be changed, which is why I stress it, but what it is in our jurisdiction is these 16 points that are defined in the law. It is extremely important, and we underline on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU, that these criteria are respected, that they are ranked according to the criteria set out in the law and that results are published on the internet as stated in the negotiating position and in the law, according to these criteria. I would still like to recommend here one conclusion that the HNS and HSU Club submitted to Parliament for adoption, for consideration, which is the conclusion that our committee is bound, in some ways, by our obligation, to commit our Committee on Legislatives to the adoption of this Law, and we hope that it will be passed, on the courts to produce a consolidated unified text. I'm saying it for this. So here, colleagues and colleagues, these five documents are the Law of Courts and anyone who wants to see what the Courts Act says has to take these five documents and look at what's in force, what's not in force, what's changed, where it is, how it is. I mean, if we're asking judges for excellence, let's offer them some conditions, some conditions that people can work. Therefore, our proposal is to put in charge, and I recommend that we give you the warmest support for that consideration. So, to task our committee to unite, to cleanse the unique text of this law to facilitate the functioning of the people doing the job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59065	Thank you. Final review by State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Damir Kontrec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59066	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. First of all, on behalf of the promoter, I thank you for your constructive discussion and awareness that it is indeed very important laws which are also a condition for the closure of Chapter 23. We will analyse your amendments and decide until the vote to accept them, or not to accept them. As far as the debate is concerned, I'd just like to highlight two things. The limitation of the duration of the mandate in both the DSV and the President of the Courts should be calculated pro futuro. So, from the law to the future. As for the objection that the law does not state the criteria for who may be a member of the DSV, if they are now introducing any additional criteria on who might be a member of the DSV, then the question can be asked, and then why does the vote be put to the vote. The assumption is that judges like people who judge and state lawyers also know how to choose among themselves the highest quality candidates for DSV members, of course those who will want to run for the post themselves. And one more thing about the conditions for the appointment of judges. These conditions are clearly prescribed and it is quite understandable that for the Supreme Court there must be judges with the highest training, the highest experience and the highest quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59067	Thank you. I am finalising the debate on the final proposal of the Law on the State Judicial Council, the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts and the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Attorneyship.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59068	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on the State Judgment Council, that was the second reading, P.Z. Number 576. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the Government submitted an amendment in accordance with Article 166. Rules of Procedure. The amendment submitted must be agreed by the majority of the present representatives. Who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendment? Please raise your hands. Who's up for it? Thank you. Against? Restraint? We have been accepted to hold a debate on the government's amendment unanimously with 112 votes. I ask the applicant's representative to further explain the amendment. Mr. Damir Kontrec, State Secretary. Here you go. Amendment to Article 40?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59069	Paragraph 3?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59070	That's the way paragraph 3 is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59071	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. The Proposer proposes in Article 40(3) of the amendment, which reads: "A member of the State Judicial Council will be relieved of his duties if convicted of a criminal offence". Namely, the Final Proposal of the Law on the State Judicial Council provided that a member of the Council would be relieved of his duties before the time he was elected if sentenced to prison. Since committing a crime and a final conviction make a member of the council unworthy, the government proposes that such an amendment be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59072	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I can only debate on behalf of clubs on the government's amendment. Any interest? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the amendments to the government. Let's please get involved and vote on an amendment to the government that is now explained here. Let's get involved and vote. The result? This amendment to the government has been accepted by most votes. 106 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against. A review of the other amendments was delivered to your benches. First of all, I would ask the Government's representative to declare the amendment of MPs and Vice-President Vladimir Seks to Article 4(2)?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59073	The government accepts this amendment, but in the amended content, which would read: "The members of the board of judges make up two Supreme Court judges, two judges of the county court, two judges of the municipal court and one judge of a specialised court."
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59074	Mr. Representative and Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59075	I accept this changed form according to the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59076	So this statement, which is the Secretary of State here, was accepted by the amendment's promoter in this statement. Thank you. Legislative Committee on Article 19?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59077	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59078	This amendment has been accepted. And the third representative of Mrs. Anna Lovrin on Article 40?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59079	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59080	It becomes both part of the law. 4. The HNS and HSU representatives' club shall be set up in accordance with Article 54.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59081	The government accepts the amendment with corrections, in paragraph 4, that candidates can score up to 30 points on the basis of the average study score and in paragraph 6 in order to achieve a maximum of 20 points on the oral conversation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59082	HNS and HSU representatives. Mrs. Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59083	Thank you, Mr. President. The purpose of our amendment in this article was to minimise the impact of personal impression and arbitration, as regards the possibility of DSV members to assess their sense of justice, for example. a candidate who is an untrusted relative criterion, reduced to a minimum, and to increase the power of objective evaluation, so the results on the test and the average on the study. It is, as we have argued on behalf of the club, both the most transparent and clear, and on the other hand, and absolutely in line with our commitments in the negotiating position for Chapter 23. Justice and fundamental rights. What the government has proposed is that instead of 40 points for grades and 10 points for interview candidates receive 30 points for grades at the study and 20 points for the interview. We think it's a little more lenient to say, but since the criteria for calling for an interview are the sum of the points from what the candidate got for the grades and what he got on the written test, we think this still significantly improves the objectivity and transparency of the criteria, so on behalf of the club, I accept this view of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59084	Thank you. This amendment has been adopted in the amended form as explained by the State Secretary and in this form becomes an integral part of the bill. The HNS and HSU representatives' club shall be referred to in Article 55.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59085	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59086	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 6 Ana Lovrin's representative in Article 59.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59087	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59088	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 7 of the Legislative Committee on Article 93.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59089	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59090	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 8 HNS and HSU representatives' club under Article 100.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59091	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59092	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 9, Representative Vladimir Seksa, in Article 100(3).
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59093	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-29-0.u59094	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm giving... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure will determine whether there are, in particular, reasonable reasons for the return of action, for the return of certain provisions. Who is behind the conclusion that there are particularly valid reasons for the return of certain provisions of the Law on the State Judicial Council. Let us please engage and vote first on this proposal for a conclusion. I'm asking for a result. This conclusion was decided by most votes, 96 votes for, 6 abstentions and 1 against. Therefore, pursuant to Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of this law require most MPs in the Croatian Parliament, so at least 77. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the State Judicial Council. You're welcome to turn yourself in and vote. Score. The final proposal of the Law on the State Judicial Council was adopted by a majority of votes, 112 votes, 1 abstention and nothing against, together with the amendments adopted.
